ladies and gentlemen, the world will be long gone from the devastating earthquake that struck a large area of southeast asia two weeks ago. the devastating tsunamis left a terrible legacy. tens of thousands dead, millions injured, family tragedies, human suffering beyond description. today, perhaps more than ever, we are aware, or we should be aware, of the value of human life. in this context, i cannot but react to the lives lost in the name of so-called human rights. millions of unborn children who have not had a chance to live a single day, thousands of old and sick people, we are willing to assist in their suicide by euthanasia. the latest initiatives in the netherlands are already quite breathtaking: euthanasia - the murder of born, handicapped children. these are the results of the european tsunami - the culture of death. is our sympathy for the victims in southeast asia not just hypocrisy? the answer is for each of us to decide for ourselves. thank you. thank you.
let me take this opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to explain a specific amendment, to depart somewhat from the spirit of the debate. the bill i want to talk about, bill 10, is that it corrects one of the inconsistencies that the constitution brings, and those inconsistencies that are talked about so much today. the point is that the text of the agricultural policy is outdated in the constitution, in a dictation from fifty years ago. for example, half a century ago, the legitimate goal of agricultural policy was to ensure food security. today, however, the situation is reversed, and europe is having trouble disposing of its surpluses. the agri committee of the european parliament even points out in its opinion on the constitution that the original objectives of the common agricultural policy are in direct conflict with the constitution. on the other hand, increasing competitiveness is the priority objective of all the reforms that have been and are being carried out in the common agricultural policy - but it is not in the constitution. the proposed amendment corrects this. it would be very appropriate for the european parliament to adopt this amendment also because in the whole resolution of the european parliament it is in fact the only reference to the strongest common policy - the agricultural policy.
mr. chairman, commissioner wallström, the guests on the balcony, distinguished colleagues. today's debate is, in my view, the most important debate not only of this election period, but of the union's history in general. the constitutional treaty is a historic milestone and, above all, a moment of emancipation for the european community. the very fact that representatives of 25 national states sit in this plenary and debate in their national languages is a good indication of the ability to live together on an equal footing and to respect common values. on may 1st last year, you welcomed us here, the vast majority of you, together, and we, the vast majority of us, sincerely appreciated it. today we are all deciding together to adopt a common primary single legal framework respecting the very values that have enabled us to extend your councils. i appreciate your waiting for us and i am personally honoured to add my voice, because i also see the constitutional treaty as an ethical and moral framework for europeans, strengthening our common historical identity, but at the same time respecting the status of individual nation states and the patriotism of their citizens. what more important document can we provide for our citizens? we will also strengthen their influence on political decisions and give them greater control. i have listened carefully to the objections of the opponents and i want to say very frankly that the constitution is a compromise, but accepting compromises is a great advantage of all reasonable, responsible and tolerant people. the european constitution opens up new horizons and gives the european union a significant degree of freedom in international politics. i believe that by voting on the constitutional treaty we will send a clear and positive signal not only to the citizens of the nation states within europe, but also to the whole world, a signal of our determination to live together in peace and solidarity.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i reject totalitarian regimes. my grandmother's family was killed in nazi gas chambers. my father was imprisoned by the communist regime. we paid with our blood for the commitment to freedom of conscience that europe represented for us as the hope for democracy, freedom of thought, freedom of religion and freedom of conscience. i hope none of you will think me anti-european when i ask a few questions. why does the european parliament have a say on the constitutional treaty rather than the citizens of the individual countries? do we need a europe governed by a constitution? the sovereignty of the member states was not to be compromised. but if the constitution strengthens the role of parliament but does not define the competences of the european court of justice, does it not thereby upset the balance between the institutions? the decisions of the court will be directly enforceable by the union institutions and the member states without any possibility of appeal. the european court of justice shall be free from any criticism. can we just pretend we don't see it? the draft constitution does not contain any guarantee that the european court of justice will not usurp some of the exclusive competences of sovereign states also against national constitutions. even if the majority in this parliament changes after the elections and the composition of the council changes at the same time, a double unanimity will be needed to change the policy. and i said: will such a union be able to develop, even if its direction is given by the constitution? our civilization has developed on christian roots. if the constitution refuses to recognize this historical fact, it brings anxiety into social life. under the guise of tolerance, a new ideology is emerging. are we to build a european home on a twisted history? is it true that without this constitution the idea of a united europe would be dead? i don't think he did. my constituents have put their trust in me, and i want to act in europe so that everyone, including the smallest, the weakest and the poorest, is accepted and finds his place in it. ladies and gentlemen, in a democratic europe, i would ask you to respect the freedom of conscience in voting.
thank you very much, mr. chairman. i wish the luxembourg presidency success. it'll be to the benefit of all of us. you're the second-in-command of the big 25. you are a founding country of the european union and at the same time you are a good example of how even a small country can set the pace, in a sense, dictate the terms to the big ones. in his speech today, the president of the european commission, mr barroso, warned of increased financial pressure on the new member states, directed towards the less developed regions. let me remind you that there is also a great deal of wealth in these ten member states. many of these regions are deprived of the dozens and hundreds of young, ambitious people, scientists, doctors who have gone to the old europe in the last 15 years and are contributing to its successful economy. i would remind the luxembourg presidency that we do not want to be just the recipients of a handout. and that's where i see your potential to actively engage the new ten. europe will build new institutions after the ratification of the constitutional treaty. i urge you to work to ensure that the east of the european union also has the right to host some important european institution. i'm convinced this idea will succeed. the proof of trust is that the bush-putin meeting is taking place in my little country, slovakia.
and writing. the new europe means survival because it rejects all forms of totalitarianism. we paid with our blood for our commitment to the european ideal of achieving freedom of thought, religion and conscience. european integration, the way the 25 eu member states function together and making the community procedures work better must be improved and must progress, with care, little by little. asking simple questions about this "constitution" should not lead to accusation of being anti democratic; understandable and credible answers are still needed. under this constitution, the uncontrolled european court of justice will apply judgements directly and unequivocally to all community institutions and bodies and the member states. no constitutional lawyer has been able to show me where it is guaranteed that the court will not infringe the various national competencies and policies. even if the parliament's elected majority or the composition in the council of ministers changes, how can the eu's major political orientation be changed when set out in a constitutional document requesting a double unanimity? finally, in refusing christian heritage, the cultural short-sightedness of this constitution is a worrying form of revisionism. granted, the treaty of nice did not contain any reference to europe's christian heritage; but it did not claim to be a constitution either.
thank you very much, mr. chairman. i also had the opportunity to participate in the monitoring of the elections in ukraine and therefore as an observer i can state: the elections were free and democratic. i dare say i know what i'm talking about. as a member of the council of europe for ten years, i had the opportunity to monitor various elections, and these were critical periods for some countries, whether i mention the elections in croatia, albania, or finally the last parliamentary elections in ukraine. compared to this election, it can be said that the elections were well prepared, the atmosphere was calm, they were transparent and observed by observers of both candidates. so a sufficient difference in the election result says that the president has been elected. it's not about the west winning or the east losing. you could say the ukrainians won. for now, for the first time, ukraine feels that it has become independent, that it has matured as a state. it's said, "glory to the victor, honor to the vanquished". it is now important that the ukrainian president unite the nation in an effort to restore the historic importance that ukraine has always had in europe, to become an important bridge between the european union and russia. and of course i will support the proposals that have been made here for ukraine to become a future member of the european union, of course, only if its citizens want it. i support the statement by the chairman of our delegation, mr saryus-wolski, that a committee should be set up.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in today's meeting, which is not a pleasant one, i would first like to greet all the workers in the member states of the union who are affected by injustice in the world of work because of their membership of a minority, whether ethnic or otherwise. we know of instances of unfair dismissals. however, they were not fortunate enough to have their cases dealt with by a plenary session of the european parliament. we should be grateful that the language teachers at the european commission have entrusted us with their case. this allows us to think together about how to prevent dysfunction within the european institutions. but we are not talking about some business that is laying off employees to increase its profits. we are talking about a guardian of the treaties, who is responsible for monitoring the proper application of the acquis communautaire. the language teachers problem is just a sad example of the failings of the european commission's administration. let us not forget that other problems persist. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules. if we, the members of the european parliament, are to control the european commission, we must act on this matter. first, i call on the parliamentary equal opportunities committee at the highest level to give due attention to this issue, to study all similar cases like today's and to take the necessary action. we must ensure that labour law is applied and that the officials and staff of the institutions are protected. secondly, it would be appropriate to call on all officials, whatever their status, to link up in the same way with the meps they have elected, to clearly inform them of the administrative shortcomings within the european institutions.
thank you very much, mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. in cambodia, women are the first victims of internal political instability. it is a problem that cannot be solved by a debate on thursday afternoon in the european parliament's chamber. however, i would like to direct your attention to a broader phenomenon in this population - sex tourism. when we talk about the abuse of children and women, we must have the courage to speak about the men who bear special responsibility for it. tourism is certainly a legitimate activity with its own cultural and educational values. but when tourism is abused, it destroys the morals and culture of several asian countries, including cambodia. it is a moral tsunami that leads primarily to the exploitation of young women and even young children through prostitution and human trafficking. we must keep questioning those responsible. we must act decisively. we should be reaching out to all media that are not fighting the sex industry. protecting women and children in cambodia from abuse starts here, with us, in our member states. the persistence of poverty and human exploitation is of the greatest concern. asian women certainly have a sense of dignity. they want to promote core cultural values. this awakening is one of the most significant signs of our times. nevertheless, poverty and the exploitation of women remain serious problems throughout asia. women's illiteracy is much higher than men's, and the right to life of female children is at much greater risk. the action of our member states must, above all, take account of the values recognised by these women and guarantee respect for their cultures.
(no) mr president of the commission, you have presented us with a good and high-quality commission strategic programme for 2005. i'm convinced that this is a long-term program. i welcome your programme and i support it because i think it is a programme which is good not only for the commission but also for the council and, in a broader sense, for the european parliament. you've heard mostly positive feedback today, and it's clear that you've heard our comments at the last meeting. one important step is behind you, but the second is to achieve these goals. you can only succeed if you can involve the council and if you can involve parliament in this work. during this period, the ratification of the constitutional treaty will be simultaneously taking place in the european union. today we are convincing people that we have prepared this document for them, for the citizens of the european union, that it is the european union that will provide them with protection in the event of the failure of the nation state. the european union has provided substantial funds for areas affected by the tsunami disaster. but in europe, we are witnessing millions of victims of economic reforms, economic tsunamis - younger people have fled from eastern europe to western europe on better terms, but older people are really dependent on our help. the european union and africa are hit by the tsunami of aids every year. ten thousand people are dying. that's why i'm asking you to help these people. i'm also offering my services to programs for the elderly and for people with aids, but i reserve the right to monitor those programs as well. thank you very much.
eldorado of death and suffering, the triumphal road of hate and the place where evil marries evil. that is how my father described his pain when he visited auschwitz. his family died in it. visiting a newly painted gas chamber, he saw how carefully orchestrated evil engenders hatred and a desire for revenge. peace is not the absence of war. it is a state of justice, freedom, faith and conscience. but after the liberation of auschwitz, peace and democracy did not prevail on the entire european continent. totalitarian regimes persisted, though in a different form. the eastern half of europe has lost the ability to decide for itself. we were locked within the borders of an evil empire that sought to destroy our religious traditions, our historical memory, and the roots of our culture. many were imprisoned simply for advocating freedom of conscience and religious freedom. my father was one of them. what does auschwitz tell us today? that the willingness to forgive is a personal and free attitude that does not need to be reciprocated. no international treaty can cure grief. without forgiveness, there is no reconciliation. states cannot be reconciled unless their citizens forgive each other. and in this context, i have to think about propaganda, because propaganda is used by all totalitarian regimes. they use it to defend the policies of the elite and to ban alternative views under threat of death. it is no coincidence that enlightened european statesmen wanted to create a bond of unity between the individual countries. they were led to do so by freedom of conscience and religious belief. they understood that the good of mankind was above the good of any nation. and these statesmen did not confuse national, cultural, and legal heritage with the surrender of political sovereignty. europe today is still searching for its future and its meaning. we must wait for our peace, for justice, for freedom of belief, conscience and thought. auschwitz is part of the european union. auschwitz and strasbourg are definitively linked and will forever remind us of the turning points in our history. thank you. thank you.
thank you very much, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour to speak here, even though the hall is half empty and the presence of interpreters saves us. let me get personal for a second, because i have a feeling that everyone wants to be associated with the victims, and we're pointing the finger at one person to be the culprit, and i think that the blame needs to be broken down. the slovak state was one of the first satellite states of the nazi empire from which jews were deported to death camps. the deportations of slovak jews were part of a process that was labeled by the nazis as the final solution to the jewish question in europe. the final solution sounds just as terrible today. the case of the slovak state is important from a historical point of view, as it was a test ground for testing the nazi strategy against the jews, for its subsequent application in other countries, and not only in the field of deportations. in fact, it's of fatal historical significance. eighty-nine thousand jews were deported from the slovak state. so much for a brief excursion into the history of ideologically motivated murder. i cannot help but recall that a catholic priest was the head of the slovak state. in the death camps, jews, roma, anti-fascists of all nationalities, and many others were murdered, condemned to a senseless and cruel death. but has history taught us anything? do we realize that the holocaust has taken on the role of a universal symbol for all evil, because it represents the most extreme form of genocide? and do we know what preceded this atrocity? was it a word or a phrase that set off the whole killing machine of hate and crime? i have a question for you, mr commissioner and mr minister. do you consider the insult of a nation, ethnic group, race, and creed in a democratic world to be a reprehensible act? does freedom of speech as one of the basic democratic values have its limits where it becomes the instrument of this national, ethnic and so on humiliation? aren't modern-day nazis, paradoxically, hiding behind hard-won democratic values and freedoms, and shouldn't we stop them before these brown-booted extremists march into the streets under the banner of democratic principles? i'll be waiting for your answer, gentlemen. thank you, mr. chairman.
- people have their dreams and aspirations, politicians have their ideals and visions, which they then work into various projects. the natura 2000 project is unique precisely because it embodies both the ideals and aspirations of people. it is based on the protection of europe's cultural and natural heritage, and the conservation and protection of biodiversity. in addition to these, one might say, big ideas, the natura 2000 project is also unique in that it can be a driver of rural development, it has great socio-economic importance, whether it is employment, tourism, but also the protection of the health of the population. today, at a time when the constitutional treaty is being adopted and ratified in the individual countries, it is very important that we can also say where parliament stands on this issue in the elaboration of such projects and where the commission stands, which is supposed to make such a project possible and which is supposed to make it possible, through money, to implement the ideas of the project. the problem of co-financing often presents a problem for many, especially the new member states of the european union, because in the decentralisation of power, the individual regions have taken on their direct responsibility for schools, hospitals and the protection of this heritage. it is therefore important and necessary that you help secure this project, that you directly release financial resources and help the regions that do not have the money to co-finance. commissioner, you spoke of subsidiarity in this particular case. but i want to ask you to realise that the environment has no borders - 'birds rarely cross from one country to another with their passport'.
an excellent report that reflects the criticism of the current state of human rights in the world. the report also contains documents that guarantee citizens their rights. i was surprised to see that the degradation of women and the failure to secure their rights were omitted from the priorities. but our problem is that sometimes we see human rights abuses in the world and we don't see them around us. we can rest our consciences that there are instruments of justice with which a citizen can assert his rights. we forget that the lady justice is sometimes lazy and takes a very long time to make a decision. political rights are also part of fundamental human rights. so it's a lack of political ethics to deny your political rival these rights. mr president, i am talking about the undignified position of non-attached members in this parliament. we can work, thank you, but we can't fit into your honto system. is that for the elite, or is that part of the winner-take-all documentation? mr president, i was very moved when the president of the european parliament was not at the table when president bush was speaking. i was very pleased that the situation had been rectified, because it was not about mr borrell's personal status, it was about the position of president of the european parliament. so i ask you to see in this comment of mine not individuals but our voters who have the right to be respected.
ladies and gentlemen, colleagues. today, as we discuss world poverty, i would like to recall the central theme of the world day against poverty, which is observed on october 17. where people are condemned to live in poverty, human rights are violated. it is our sacred duty to join in the effort to make them respected. wherever men and women decide the future of humanity, the voice of the poorest should be heard. today, poverty is the biggest barrier to women's participation in all areas of life. international institutions such as the world bank are calling on us not to ignore the fact that the first stage of the long journey of women's liberation is the fight against their poverty. the participation of women in the definition of poverty indicators thus forms a basic assumption. it asks us how we can empower the poor and give them access to basic rights. to measure and quantify poverty, we need well-defined indicators. classical indicators have been widely criticized by the american economist gerry becker in his work on human capital and the economic approach to life. becker specifically measured the impact of the gender gap on the income and economic value of family life in all its forms. all of these economic studies show that one third of economic activities predominantly carried out by women escape any form of evaluation and monitoring. there are simply no indicators and no instruments to measure them. would it not be useful to draw inspiration from the work of gerry becker to define the policy indicators of women's higher social status today?
my colleagues, commissioner. after a mid-term analysis of the lisbon strategy, it is not necessary to stress the need to strengthen research and innovation in the european union. the main indicators of the development of this sector clearly demonstrate not only the lag behind the world leaders, but above all our inability to exploit our own research and innovation potential. there is no doubt that there is a need to significantly increase the volume of resources in this important area, but in sync with our financial perspectives. but it doesn't matter through what tools we implement them. the framework programmes for research and technological development, which have been and are the main instrument of the implementation strategy of the european union, have not been able to get close enough to the research and innovation potential of smes in particular, for various reasons, throughout its existence. the complexity of the whole structure and procedures for accessing financial resources is most often cited, discouraging in particular small research and innovation units or small firms. regional experience also points to other reasons: lack of sufficient regional infrastructure, relevant institutions such as university development centres, technology incubators, high-tech centres and the like, but also venture capital funds, which would stimulate regional innovation and research potential in its wider activation on the one hand, but at the same time create a stronger competitive environment on the other hand. the budget of the european union must take into account, in addition to the increased level of funding of its framework programmes, the strengthening of the budget of the structural funds for the establishment of regional research infrastructure and also the strengthening of the programmes of the european financial institutions to stimulate the creation of regional venture capital funds.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, madam minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this year's international women's day falls within the celebration of the 10th anniversary of the world conference on women, but are the advances announced in beijing now being perceived in the same way by all women in the world? beijing + 10 is a new beginning today and i am particularly grateful to the colleagues who helped to table this oral question. on this day, i think of all those who have devoted their lives to defending the dignity of women by winning fundamental rights in social, economic and political terms. their engagement was sometimes considered an act of aggression, a sign of lack of femininity, or even a manifestation of exhibitionism. the real equality of human rights, equal pay for equal work, protection of working mothers, fair career advancement and equality of spouses in family life are urgent. the social presence of women challenges the society organized according to the sole criterion of efficiency and productivity. it is urgent to condemn forcefully, to denounce the abuses against women and to defend women and girls against all forms of violence that make them objects or commodities. in such circumstances, the choice of abortion, even before it is the responsibility of women, is the responsibility of men, with the complicity of the environment. being a woman and a mother should not be discriminated against or penalized, because the survival of humanity depends on it. the woman who can express her creative genius becomes a true revolutionary, because she knows how to resolve conflicts, create and recreate peace. and peace is not just the absence of war, it is a state of justice, an emergency that concerns us all today. so, happy birthday to us women!
thank you very much, mr. chairman. mr. chairman, march 8th is an internationally recognized holiday, women's day. but i consider this day primarily to be a day to recognize the work of women in society. because in families, we honor women as mothers on mother's day. but sometimes i feel that just by recalling some of the terrible actions, such as the violence against women now in turkey, we have made it easier to violate the rights of women in our immediate surroundings. physical violence in the family is the result of insufficient work of institutions that do not apply the rights of women that result from laws. but let's look at how we apply political rights and social rights. many governments, including the governments of the european union member states, and sadly, i have to say, my own government, have no women among them at all. so how do we look at the role of women in the institutions from a european perspective? thank you. thank you.
true, historically, it's not that long since women's equal voting rights were first enshrined in law in the country that history books call new zealand in 1893, and on the european continent, finland in 1906. historically, it's not that long ago that women were allowed to go to college. on the other hand, if one looks at the introduction to the text of the resolution with an unbiased eye, one can see that it took a lot of paperwork, that serious bodies spent weeks and months drafting dozens of documents, and that little progress was made in practice. the text that i'm proposing now could be a desperate cry that time has accelerated tremendously, and unfortunately there's a wink that the world doesn't need to change because it's good for at least one half of society as it is. the principle of equal pay for equal work, which became part of european legislation in 1975, is a good example of how, although there is a regulation, it has survived for just 30 years, but life goes on its own way, and today we again find that the pay gap between women and men does not decrease. in fact, in some countries the gap is increasing, and experts say that there is a difference between the de jure and the de facto status. but there is a much more drastic form of tolerating the situation, violence against women. it's true that honor killings are rare in europe, but they do happen. in the countries of central and eastern europe, one woman dies every week as a victim of domestic violence. we cannot always be effective against practices and traditional practices that have nothing to do with human dignity, human rights. the recent events in istanbul show that institutionalized violence against women is part of our day, on the threshold of the european union. the resolution is to resolve what can be resolved and to talk about what cannot be resolved today.
mr president, commissioner, the proposed budgetary procedure for 2006 and the budgetary corrections for the financial year 2005 are clearly in line with the current state and developments in budgetary relations and are designed to ensure the effective functioning of the european union. i appreciate the good work of the reporters in this regard. in particular, in this short space, i would like to support and follow up on my colleague mr ferber's efforts to tackle an open problem concerning the capacity of translation and interpreting activities, which is a major concern in the european parliament's work. the same applies, apart from adequate financial security, to increasing the number of highly qualified officials in this field, to taking specific measures in the context of vocational training in translation and interpreting, and i would like to emphasize this, but also to improving the management and logistics of these activities, which is no longer a matter directly linked to the budgetary procedures. all this is essential if the european parliament is to be able to fulfil its mission not as an agency for english language teaching but as a multinational and multilingual institution adopting important european standards. thank you for your attention and for the good work of the interpreters.
mr president, the taking of eggs from young romanian women aged 18 to 30 to create human embryos reveals one of the most odious aspects of the modern exploitation of women. it also reveals the utmost perversion of the principle of the free movement of goods and services in our so-called developed european countries. the only fault of the new biotechnology slaves is that they were born in an economically poor european country. their measurements are now available online, and with a simple click, you can select them by race, eye color, and education. this reminds us of other sad moments of human selection in europe. back then, it took up more space and it was more visible. in europe too, the joy of having a child can now be bought on the internet, and cheaply. this is done in the secret of the permanent destruction of the bodily integrity of these young women and above all, forever, of their deep desire to be able to give life one day. we should not be too quick to think that the announcement of an acceptable solution will bring this sad story to an end. some form of science also needs these human embryos and the poor woman is a prey of choice, especially in europe and especially when she is young. and will we, the members of the european parliament, still have good reasons to fight this market and above all the courage to do everything to abandon it?
it is important that today, when we want to assess the half-life of the lisbon strategy, we do not look for recipes, mr verheugen, but above all to be able to identify where the likely failures have occurred. interinstitutional cooperation has been particularly lacking. the european council has set objectives which it should only coordinate and facilitate, since in most cases these objectives are subject to the subsidiarity of the national states. i therefore call for greater responsibility on the part of the nation states and, more specifically, on the citizens of these states to adopt the ideas of the lisbon strategy. the european union should monitor on an ongoing basis, ensuring more rigorously the role of a flexible and efficient centre, such as in the control and fulfilment of the maastricht criteria. the social reforms needed to address social inclusion have not been carried out in the member states. the issue of securing more job opportunities: achieving this objective requires increased labour mobility. but we are lagging behind in terms of recognition of qualifications and expertise, but above all in simplifying this procedure. rather, there appears to be an increased east-west movement of labour, mainly highly sophisticated labour, further exacerbating the disparities in the backward regions. ageing of the population: the national states have failed to respect this phenomenon and have failed to ensure the social inclusion of these citizens, or indeed of an entire generation, through their social reforms. the main task here is to replace this substantial loss in the economy in a qualitative way.
commissioner, i agree with you that the analysis confirms that the prospect is only in the application of the market also in the commodity sugar. but as it turns out, the most important thing is to manage the huge spectrum of partial interests behind which there are thousands of profiteers in this highly regulated market that we have today. i think that for us in the european parliament, the key question is whether the parliament will more or less succumb to these partial interests, or whether it has the ambition of the highest political body of the eu and will decide in principle whether the necessary market principles prevail in sugar reform or whether bureaucratic principles will continue to dominate. i personally see here today, in the motion for a resolution, madam commissioner, the willingness to give priority to a deeper market intervention in sugar reform, and i therefore support it. i personally do not consider it necessary to discuss the exact development of the follow-up procedures, as this is more a technical problem than a political one. in conclusion, i would like to confirm that we support the view that only more natural competition on the european market, including sugar, will enable us to compete in a dynamically developing world market.
in writing. a young woman, at puberty, has only a limited number of eggs, about 500, which will be released one by one during each female cycle. at menopause, the ovum supply is exhausted and the woman can no longer conceive children. over-stimulating a young woman's ovaries and putting her at a major risk of ovarian cancer is not a public health anecdote. indeed, in a country whose health system suffers from limited economic capacity, what guarantees will be offered to these young women? why else, if not economic pressure, would a young woman take such a risk? removing and damaging dozens or even hundreds of eggs from an 18-year-old woman is premature menopause. it's taking away her chance at motherhood, permanently. who's to say that an 18-year-old girl would want to make that choice? how can we say that this is not the result of economic and financial pressures? in these circumstances, these issues go far beyond directive 2004/23/ec, it is impossible to claim that the demand must be met and the free and unrestricted donation of her eggs preserved. this is a major violation of women's most basic rights.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, when i say 'belarus' you might react with the all too familiar 'last dictatorship in europe'. indeed, human rights abuses are an everyday occurrence in the eu's new neighbour. allow me, however, not to talk directly about human rights abuses in belarus, but to raise the issue of the european union's assistance to civil society in that country. through the tacis programme, the eu has allocated eur 10 million to projects in belarus in support of civil society and the independent media for the period 2005-2006. since that assistance flows through the belarus government, it is not efficient and flexible enough to support civil society organisations, the majority of which have already been de-registered for political reasons. in spite of the council of ministers' resolution of november 2004 and the detailed eu action plan for promoting democracy in belarus, the european commission insists on using the existing mechanism for support to civil society in belarus. some member states and the expelled belarusian community, on the other hand, want to see the creation of a special fund, with more flexible structures, to support non-registered ngos, which are the most active and important in belarus but receive no support under the current eu mechanisms. we must acknowledge the progress made by the european commission regarding belarus. however, the commission must finally recognise the need for increased support for genuine civil society organisations such as the belarusian association of journalists, laureate of the sakharov prize. i therefore call on the european parliament to raise its voice in this matter, exert its influence and put adequate pressure not only on the commission but also on belarus.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the millennium development goals are a challenge to us. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. as such, it is remarkable that the european union provides more than 50% of the world's development aid. however, respect for cultural diversity and traditions, which is the essence of european integration, is not promoted by the european union in its external relations. the financial aid conceals issues of geopolitical power and cultural influence, and the european union sometimes buys the votes of developing states in the un general assembly. but to make joint decisions, we must listen to and respect each other, especially when we want to define guidelines that affect fundamental moral and cultural values. the peoples of the united nations mentioned in the preamble to the charter have the right to respect for their dignity and traditions, whatever their economic status. as regards human rights, it is essential to strengthen them by providing them with a solid ethical basis, otherwise they remain fragile and without foundation. in this connection, it must be reiterated that human rights are not created or granted by anyone but are inherent in human nature. the resolution we are voting on shows the difference between the way the wealth of the family is understood in the developing countries and in the european union. would it not be highly objectionable if such important issues as the achievement of the millennium development goals were exploited? as long as donors do not fully respect the cultural context of developing countries, true peace cannot be achieved.
for independent members. we have already heard from the commission representative here, and very rightly, that it is not a question of if, but when. but it should be said that two basic conditions for a pandemic have already been met, and that is that the virus is spreading between animals, where it is mutating, that it has already managed to infect people and threaten their lives. the next, third and final stage is human-to-human spread. so we know how avian influenza was identified: the h5n1 strain, with other possible mutations, was the basis for the vaccine. this is just a confirmation of what i have already said on several occasions in the european parliament. it's bad that health systems are subject to subsidiarity and nation-states. disease knows no borders, and the threat of a pandemic is a serious warning to us. it's good that who is prepared, but i doubt that even nation states are prepared for this problem.
as mentioned, influenza is one of the diseases with serious health, social, economic, but also defence and political consequences. the greatest danger, however, is the various influenza pandemics that occur when a new subtype of influenza virus emerges that is transmissible from person to person. only influenza a viruses, which cause influenza not only in humans but also in animals, especially birds, pigs, and horses, have the ability to create new viruses. a new subtype of human influenza virus is produced by recombination between human and animal strains of influenza a viruses in an animal host. this creates what is called an antigenic shift. as people are not immune to the new subtype, the disease spreads rapidly, creating epidemics that in a few months become pandemics. the who recently declared that we are now closer to a flu pandemic than ever before. who also calls on governments to set up national influenza pandemic committees to adopt their own national response plans, as my country, the slovak republic, has done, within its means. vaccines are a good preventive solution, but they have their limits. as the commissioner has already indicated, the virus must be identified, a vaccine developed, production started and marketed, and large-scale vaccination carried out. the vaccine does not work in advanced disease because it is necessary to wait for the formation of antibodies. so it's not something you can count on in the first wave of a pandemic. the vaccine also has a short shelf-life, so consideration should be given to the use of antivirals. antiviral medicinal products are an appropriate complement to vaccination because, in addition to their prophylactic use, they are effective mainly in the treatment of already developed diseases and are essential for the immediate therapeutic detection of a pandemic. due to the significantly longer expiry time - up to five years - it is possible to pre- duplicate it in good time. the speech by commissioner kyprianou gives me hope that things will be monitored and, at best, will not have to be dealt with.
fifteen years ago, the iron curtain was lifted. the people of eastern europe were genuinely looking forward to us becoming equal partners once we met the economic criteria. what is the truth today? mr verheugen and many other members who were present here dealt with the problem of redundancies at alstom and spoke of the fate of 250 employees. mr verheugen, you know very well that in slovakia not hundreds but thousands of people have lost their jobs because of the reforms we have made to become members of the european union. slovaks have made many sacrifices for this goal. i don't think either of us felt sorry for them, and we were happy to become equal partners a year ago. at least that's what we thought. what is the truth today? not us, but i'm convinced the old 15 weren't ready for expansion. although there has been free movement of goods to the east - we have such beautiful shops as you have today, it's good - slovaks no longer have to travel for exclusive goods to the west. but what about the free movement of persons? discrimination against persons on grounds of nationality is prohibited - workers from the new member states should have priority over workers from third countries in accessing jobs. but all but three countries have given us transitional provisions for 2 to 7 years, and after that period it will be considered, and therefore possibly extended. this increases legal uncertainty for employees. we know very well that in the west our people, the highly qualified, younger generation, educated, multilingual, receive a higher salary, but in what social and in what inhuman conditions. i'm asking you to pay attention to this, too.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for his report which has given us detailed information on the situation of human rights in the world in 2004 and on the european union's position on this issue. today, many people turn to large world institutions, such as the eu or the un, with confidence when injustices are committed against them or in their neighborhood. but let me point out that where people's rights are most violated, many times the victims do not have enough strength, but neither the means to know and be able to defend themselves, or to be able to call attention to themselves. it is therefore important that the european parliament, through the cooperation of several committees, monitors not only the preparation of the conventions and the status of ratification, but also the implementation of these treaties. the convention on the rights of the child has been signed and ratified by almost every country in the world. however, i believe that in many european countries, children are not given enough attention in terms of their rights. yesterday, at the envi committee meeting, i tried to insert a reference to article 32 of the european charter of fundamental human rights in mr bowis' report on patient mobility, but this was rejected by the honourable members. so tell me, how are things with the implementation of important documents?
the roma issue is one of the most complex social and political issues in the european union. the so-called roma problem has not yet been sufficiently successfully addressed using different concepts. in attempts to address it as a social problem, every effort has been frustrated by a different culture. efforts to integrate the roma community often turned into attempts at assimilation, which were also unsuccessful. the roma problem is clearly situated, in its complexity, at the crossroads of social, ethnic and minority problems. clearly, the problem is not as serious in different countries. in the baltic countries there are no roma, but in the southern part of the european union and in the new member states the problem is very often beyond the scope of a single country. it is clear that the transition to a market economy has not been a win-win situation for roma in many countries. a substantial part of this minority was among those for whom adaptation to new conditions had become an unmanageable and intractable problem. the poor situation, often extreme poverty, and high unemployment cannot be attributed solely to racial discrimination. the problem is very often much wider. it starts with a lack of education. the worst off are indeed those who, moreover, live in remote locations, in segregated settlements, often without schooling, without electricity or even without drinking water, and in regions with very high unemployment. slovakia was mentioned a few months ago in connection with the roma, with the cause of forced sterilization of roma women. i want to reiterate what the deputy prime minister said in the women's rights and equal opportunities committee that a thorough police investigation has shown that no such forced and unauthorized actions took place. however, legislation in this area has also proved to be outdated and unclear. in conclusion, i would like to welcome this resolution, because there are many myths about the roma and their situation, perhaps even more prejudices, but little real knowledge. i believe that the roma problem has crossed national borders and that the solution must be approached as a european problem, as commissioner spidla has said. it is really appropriate to use the best national experience and the use of the structural funds to tackle this problem with the participation of the roma themselves, which is really the key issue in this matter. i think this resolution is a good and necessary step in that direction.
a few years ago, american financier george soros lamented the billions of dollars lost by his financial-operating companies and urged the governments of the world's most powerful countries to organize and enforce clear rules and order in the world's financial markets. operations on the world financial markets, and in particular financial derivatives, have experienced a veritable explosion in recent years. the volume and growth dynamics of these transactions are many times higher than those of conventional financial transactions linked to real production, services and consumption of products. any slide or even collapse of even parts of these markets can have serious consequences for the world economy, not to mention that behind every negative movement in financial markets must be seen the money and the fate of ordinary citizens. in this sense, i welcome the material presented and the good work of the rapporteur, ieke van den burg, as a further contribution and as an initiator of a conceptual approach to this issue, not only within the european union but also with the ambition of an intercontinental approach.
for the ppe-de group. mr president, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by congratulating mrs handzlik on her very successful first report to the european parliament and thanking the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for taking the initiative in drawing up this important report. the latest enlargement, on 1 may 2004, saw 10 new member states become members of the european union in law, but only in law. in fact, our countries still have a lot of work to do in various areas to gradually become full members. one of these areas is the approximation of community directives and other regulations into national legislation, with a view to creating a functioning, barrier-free common internal market. the report provides a clear picture of the state of play of the transposition of european legislation in the member states. my country - slovakia - often referred to as the 'tiger of central europe' under the successful leadership of prime minister mikuláš dzurinda, is not one of the european union's member states with the best record of adopting european legislation, but it has made great progress in implementing its medium-term economic strategy with its economic reforms. consolidation and improvement of european legislation are also essential to remove the remaining barriers to the internal market. the commission should start to work on the adaptation of existing community legislation with a view to simplifying it. i am fundamentally against bureaucratic directives that regulate and regulate everything. so let us leave it to the member states, within the framework of subsidiarity, to do what they can do more flexibly and more efficiently. on the contrary, we need directives that liberalize. let us not be afraid to adopt as soon as possible a new directive on services, perhaps similar to the one adopted by bolkestein, which will breathe new life into the revised lisbon strategy. i'm sure of it, i believe many of you are. thank you for your attention.
in writing. every voter wants the politicians they elect to respect the platform they have committed themselves to. i am a member of the epp-ed group and i have committed myself to respecting the platform of christian-democratic values that this group represents. these include "support for the principles of the protection and promotion of human dignity and, consequently, respect for the right to life and the uniqueness of every human being from conception to natural death". when a political programme indicates values to be promoted, it is natural to follow it, also in the voting lists. voters don't like to be betrayed by their elected officials, especially when it comes to the core values they elected us to uphold. the protection of life at all times, from conception to natural death, is unconditional on any political calculation. the world health organization defines "sexual and reproductive health" as including the practice of promoting the termination of unwanted pregnancies. that is why i voted against amendments nos 8 and 9. since these amendments have been passed, they have amended the resolution in a way that is contrary to our epp-ed values platform.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the elimination of obstacles to the free movement of persons and services between member states is one of the community's objectives. following the european council meeting in lisbon on 23 and 24 march 2000, the commission adopted a report on the internal market strategy for services, aimed in particular at making the free provision of services within the community as simple as within each member state. one of the key directives closely linked to the services directive is the directive on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. its preparation has been the subject of a complex interinstitutional legislative procedure, which the commission started at the beginning of 2002. it is gratifying that, after many years of effort by the member states, this directive finally establishes a system of mutual recognition of professional qualifications which will enable a national of one member state to apply for a job in another member state under the same conditions as nationals of that host state. this will create rules for all professions, with the exception of the public administration of the member states and the notarial profession, which will be as broad as possible and will facilitate the subsequent application of the qualifications acquired in the much wider european labour market. at present, only eight professions, including doctors, nurses, lawyers and architects, have uniform rules for the recognition of qualifications in the union. for example, the important profession of civil engineer has been forgotten, which today has no corresponding status at european level. this directive should be the one to bring about the correction. following an amendment in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, five reference levels are introduced, reflecting a certain level of education and allowing comparisons to be made between the level of qualifications of different member states, which are welcomed by professional associations such as the chamber of civil engineers and the chamber of architects. a single committee composed of representatives of the various professions should also be set up to deal with the recognition of professional qualifications. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr zappal, for his hard work in producing this report and congratulate him on its unanimous adoption by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to recommend and ask you to support the agri committee's motion, tabled by the rapporteur, mr jánusz wojciechowski, in the vote. i would also like to thank him for the skilled and hard work he has put into the preparation of this document. ladies and gentlemen, by adopting this compromise proposal we would be demonstrating our willingness to eliminate, at least in part, the unfair redistribution of potato starch production land between the old and new member states of the eu. the example of poland is a clear proof of this. the discussion of this issue in the agri committee also opened up the wider problem of discrimination against farmers from the new eu member states. finally, it has already been said in this chamber that the original farmers of the european union on the left bank of the same river, in the same natural climatic and soil conditions, receive support of eur 400 in direct payments, but on the other bank in the new member states only eur 50. the open discussion on this subject in the agri committee has shown the urgent need to exchange views on the application of the common agricultural policy and to discuss the issue in detail and without prejudice. i am pleased to take this opportunity to say that the debate in the agri committee has shown a clear willingness and not only a willingness, but also, i believe, an interest in organising such an open exchange of views. the farmers of my country, the slovak republic, also see in this discussion the hope of eliminating the tensions arising from the different application of agricultural policy in different parts of the single european union.
mr president, commissioner, honourable members, the other opinion poll on the attitude of slovak citizens towards the european union gave a clear answer. one year after joining the european union, 83% of slovak citizens view this step positively and today the slovak parliament ratified the draft constitution for europe. on the other hand, slovak citizens are becoming particularly sensitive to the problems associated with the limitation of the exercise of the mandate in representing, in particular, the new member states, which result from the lengthy procedure of the european parliament's administration in ensuring linguistic support, sufficient translation capacities and the availability of interpretation services in parliamentary committees and political groups. the motion for a resolution on the budget of the european parliament tabled by mr dombrovskis, and i thank him for his good work, is the right response to this situation. it is only to the detriment of the case that the original text of the order, in which the delay in recruiting the staff concerned was declared unacceptable, is replaced in its current wording by the softer expression 'regrettable'. the lack of linguistic support undermines equality of opportunity and limits the exercise of the mandate of members, especially those from new member states. it is therefore discriminatory in its very nature, it is contrary to the spirit of the united europe we have entered as new members and is therefore truly unacceptable. it would certainly be regrettable and unacceptable if, because of shortcomings not in the budget but in the administration of the european parliament, support for a united europe in the new member states were to decline.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr leinen's question is precisely timed to coincide with the ratification of the constitutional treaty by the member states. i am glad that my country, slovakia, ratified this constitutional treaty today, all the more so because i had the opportunity to participate in its preparation. it is precisely in the light of this constitutional treaty that the european parliament must prepare itself for its enhanced role. the european parliament has so far had only a minimal influence on foreign policy, mainly through the budgetary decision-making process. we recognise that the european parliament is the only european institution directly elected by the citizens. we should therefore close the democratic deficit and involve the european parliament directly in foreign policy decision-making. the european parliament should not just be consulted. the european union's foreign policy position cannot be left to diplomats alone. the commission and the council shall cooperate with the foreign affairs committee and, where appropriate, with other committees.
mr president, i voted in favour of the declaration 'the future of europe 60 years after the end of the second world war' and i would like to thank all my colleagues who supported it. this statement is a tremendous moral comfort to all who have experienced the horrors of world war ii and any violence since. many of them are no longer alive, and those who are are thank the european parliament for not forgetting. i thank you for my father, stefan kanyai, who survived almost nine years of the hell of the russian gulag. for young people who, thank god, have not experienced war, the basis of knowledge will be to learn from the past in order to build a free and peaceful future for europe.
in writing. i voted for the declaration, but i want to thank all my colleagues who supported it. this declaration is a tremendous moral tribute to all who experienced the horrors of world war ii and any violence after it. many of them are no longer alive today, but those who are thankfully alive are not forgotten by the european parliament. thank you for your father, stefan kanyai-ho, who survived almost nine years in the hell of the russian gulag. for young people who, thanks to god, have not experienced war, learning from the past will be the basis for building a future of europe that is free and peaceful.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, i would like to speak more directly to commissioner špidla. the two action programmes will provide effective support to ngos active in the field of gender equality. i commend the commission for its work in this area. but here we should especially congratulate the good-will ngos who bring useful expertise to inform the european institutions, which are too often far removed from the daily lives of citizens. however, it should be stressed that most of them lack an important aspect: the financial resources necessary to carry out their activities. the expertise of ngos is essential to enable us to develop balanced and practical legislation. if the european institutions are to be taken seriously, the political will to be close to the citizens must be translated into action. we have a lot to do in the area of equality. we cannot afford to exclude certain ngos from funding. i hope, commissioner, that the equality between men and women so often called for will finally apply to all ngos working in this field. all ngos must be eligible for funding irrespective of their size, experience and location in the member states. i hope that the european commission services will simplify procedures, make them more affordable and more transparent, and expand the possibility of granting financial support to many ngos. gender equality will not be achieved by large centralised organisations, but through the actions of ngos that are close to the ground and to the citizens.
i welcome mrs scheele's report on the addition of vitamins, minerals and certain other substances to food. different countries have different legislations on this subject, which creates a barrier to the free movement of goods. moreover, this regulation at european level will ensure the same standard in all member states. the addition of vitamins, minerals and food additives is often abused. their manufacturers use them to make their product more appealing by claiming that it contains more vitamins than other products, which is often not true. on the consumer side, this poses a danger, because the consumer may increase the consumption of food on the basis of the false idea that it is more rational and healthier than other foods. we are often confronted with deceptive advertising that a food, by the addition of a vitamin or other substance, protects the consumer from cancer or other civilization diseases. however, foods high in calories, fat, and sugar are not made healthier by adding vitamins or other substances. for the sake of legal certainty and transparency, a positive list of substances that may be added to foods should be established to avoid the enrichment of foods with substances that are dangerous, while at the same time the recommended daily intakes of those substances should be determined, both in minimum and maximum amounts. that's why i support the introduction of nutritional profiles. it seems to me to be the best means of uniform food safety control for different groups of consumers, whether children, pregnant women or the elderly.
in writing. mr. chairman, allow me to justify my positive vote for the britty thomsen government - multi-agency program for business and private enterprise. for almost 20.5 million businesses employing some 122 million people, this multiannual programme 2001-2005 is one of the sources of funding for eu entrepreneurship policy and is an instrument to achieve the objectives set out in the european charter for small enterprises. it also helped the 10 new member states to set up an institutional network of advisory information centres to coordinate activities to support the development of smes. the financial allocations agreed by this administration for 2006 will be transferred between the existing and the new structural programme "cip" - programme for competitiveness and innovation, which is planned for 2007-2013. the european parliament, by this vote, gives the green light to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the most promising sources of new jobs, innovation, economic development and greater social inclusion.
after the rejection of the euro constitution in the french and dutch referendums, the idea of a united europe, the principles of solidarity and the access of citizens of the new member states to the labour markets of the eu-15 have become the most relevant nowadays, as they are closed to new members in the hope that restrictions will protect them from competition. my country, slovakia, and with it the other new countries, want to be full members of the community. since last year's enlargement of the european union, labour immigration from the new states has amounted to only 150,000 people and has not reached the level that critics of enlargement had warned against. the fall of the berlin wall gave great hope to our integration efforts, and let us not try to build a new european wall again for fear of so-called social dumping.
the european union has no ideal mechanisms for creating or directing resources, nor does it have a revised 10- to 20-year outlook for economic and other policies. suffice it to mention the long-term inefficiency of managed agriculture. in this situation, mr böge, even the temporary committee, despite the enormous work that i appreciate, could not achieve more than it has achieved, namely a compromise that has a chance of passing the vote in parliament. however, if parliament is considering resources at the level of 1.08 per cent of gross national product, the council's calculations are between 1.03 and 1.05 per cent of gross domestic product. this shows that in the future it will be less about indices than about the correct mechanisms for allocating funds, and the road to a final agreement on the financial perspective will be still very difficult.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. the rapporteur has done pioneering work in this area, for which i would like to thank him. while there are many reports on anti-discrimination, this one goes one step further. protecting minorities goes beyond simply prohibiting discrimination, bringing political agitation closer to creating equal opportunities. however, the linking of the two topics also raises a number of problems, so that the report has become a bit oversized, the subject is complex, so there are a lot of new contexts that the report examines. the report is the first to address the protection of minorities. since minority rights are an integral part of human rights and are among the indisputable fundamental values of the european area, there is no doubt that the inclusion of the issue on the agenda is important and inevitable. in an enlarging europe, this is a subject that deserves to be addressed with a double standard. while the copenhagen criteria clearly set out the eu's expectations for the protection of minorities, there has been no obligation for member states to design their minority policies in a proper way. there is a danger that in the new member states which are shaping their minority policies into european ones before accession, the process may not only be halted by the rise of nationalism, but that anti-minority manifestations may also be intensified. that's why the monitoring system is also missing. the specific problems raised in the preparation of the report arising from the different situations of minorities on the one hand and the universality of human rights on the other clearly indicate the need for such a policy within the union. i can only support the part of the report which stresses that this policy must be based on the principles of europeanism, subsidiarity and self-government.
i welcome the report by mr bovis on patient mobility and healthcare developments in the european union. i encourage the european commission to prepare an action plan for european healthcare that would be a real guarantee of the safe free movement of people. especially now, at a time when europe is being shaken by the idea of 'european solidarity versus national identity', it is important to demonstrate to citizens that the european institutions are preparing to simplify mechanisms and also to improve healthcare for their citizens. the responsibility of the member states, i.e. subsidiarity in healthcare, is one of the most serious obstacles to the free movement of persons. politicians are responsible for the organisation of healthcare in the member states. the patient pays health insurance fairly, on time and regularly, without a waiting list, and in the period when he urgently needs his money to be covered by the service, he is denied or postponed health care. patient mobility could be a tool to improve the inadequate healthcare in some member states. waiting lists are actually a temporary postponement of the solution of the patient's illness, which can be understood from a medical point of view as a threat to his health and life. waiting lists can be at plastic surgeons. for example, a patient who has to wait for a replacement joint is ruining his health with painkillers during this period. long-term use of analgesics may cause addiction, bone marrow suppression or stomach ulcers. moreover, some member states are addressing healthcare shortages during this period by buying cheap labour, doctors and nurses from the east. i therefore consider patient mobility to be far more beneficial for the future of europe than the mobility of healthcare staff. for eastern european countries, the departure of doctors and nurses puts their health care at risk. according to the slovak medical chamber, more doctors left slovakia than were promoted at the three slovak medical faculties. it can be said that in the future, white holes may appear on the map of europe, which again is not the solution.
the constitutional treaty has been ratified by ten states to date, namely the five old member states - austria, germany, greece, italy, spain - and the five new member states - hungary, lithuania, latvia, slovenia and slovakia. it's 50% of the citizens of the european union, and so i want to say that the founding country has no privileged position, you could say, a score of ten to two. i don't know if the french have cured their unemployment problem by voting against it, which they used in the referendum. on the contrary, i think they have abused the idea and the desire of the new member states and have humiliated a great european country - my neighbour poland - by using the polish welder as a symbol. i call on parliament not to weep over a negative result, not to rejoice over the disgrace to the idea of a strong europe for some of those present, but to take strong and effective action in favour of the next process. it is also sad, mr president, that i am speaking now, in this round, as the first of the new member states.
i justify my vote in favour of the böge report by the need to demonstrate the union's capacity for action by the european institutions after the unsuccessful referendums in france and the netherlands. the european parliament, as an equal player with the european council, has clearly defined its political priorities for the financial perspective. the rapporteur has set up a framework with real added value, with a high level of professionalism, and with the setting of sustainable and acceptable financial ceilings, which are then translated into specific instruments and programmes. the maintenance of the cohesion aid at 4% of gdp is of great importance for the new member states, which receive a crucial share of the funds for cohesion and structural operations. at the same time, the right emphasis is also placed on a fairer distribution of net wage-earners' contributions in a spirit of solidarity. the böge report is an acceptable compromise between the commission's generous proposal and the council's under-sized proposal. it is a challenge to the council to make it possible, by its unanimous approval at the june summit, to conclude the negotiations on the financial perspective during the luxembourg presidency, but by the end of this year at the latest.
issues related to strengthening the surveillance of budgetary positions, such as the issue of speeding up and clarifying the excessive deficit procedure, are matters in which the parliamentary institutions, both at the level of the european union and of the member states, as independent and directly elected institutions, can and should play the role of guardians of the correctness of economic policies, in particular with regard to their budgetary and deficit implications. in this sense, i see and appreciate the european parliament's supplementary proposals as improving initiatives. however, the package of council regulations will remain an open document, which will for a long time allow national governments, through various channels, to evade budgetary and deficit prudence frameworks and to use overt or less overt forms of sovereign debt, or to deliberately conceal the consumption of disposable, non-recurring resources, for example from privatisation, in the ordinary course of government business. of course, this is in line with the short-term policy of governments. so it's a long way to go, but it's a long way to go.
let me thank the rapporteur for her hard work on this well-balanced report. the lisbon strategy clearly defines the european union's priority to increase the competitiveness of european industry. however, in order to achieve these objectives, it is also necessary to take account of the following aspects: 1. to the elimination of unnecessary administration and bureaucracy by the european union. the european institutions must reduce and simplify legislation for business operators in the industrial sector, but especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. national legislation should be a carrier, while the industrial policy of the european union must be limited to the necessary process of coordination and harmonisation. 2. to emphasis on supporting and encouraging small and medium-sized enterprises in the industrial sector. this sector of smes clearly demonstrates its flexibility, which is a dominant prerequisite for achieving the necessary, long-term sustainable level of competitiveness also on the global market. for this reason, i cannot entirely agree with the policy of supporting so-called national champions. this approach of encouraging the creation of a small number of large dominant firms is likely to drain considerable resources from the european union budget and is also likely to undermine the principles of sound competition, while the positive impact on their competitiveness may not yet be guaranteed. 3. to smes in industry need new impetus for further technological development, research and innovation. however, the programmes being prepared, such as the seventh framework programme, the competitiveness and innovation framework programme and others, need to be much more accessible to smes than they have been so far. the structural funds must also be directed more to the less developed regions and new member states to build up sufficient technical infrastructure to create a better industrial base in these regions.
rapporteur of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, requested for an opinion. the report on social inclusion in the new member states brings a number of new challenges. the rapporteur has identified them very clearly and i would like to congratulate him on his excellent work. poverty and its associated social inclusion not only have a specific dimension in the new countries, as a result of the absolute threshold being substantially lower than the poverty threshold, and thus poverty is ultimately more severe than in the old 15, but also have a specific form for the female population. all sources indicate that single-parent families and older women are particularly at risk. the opinion of the committee on women's rights therefore pointed out both extreme forms of poverty and the absolute lack of comparable and reliable data. but it reveals a very dangerous phenomenon that remains hidden behind the adult population data - the high risk of child poverty. while analyses indicate that child poverty is often deeper and more children are at risk of poverty, precise figures are not available. university research in 2001 estimated the risk of child poverty in the old member states as being up to 14% higher than in the adult population. in my country, the national report on youth policy published yesterday says that 30% of children are at risk of poverty, in single-parent families it is up to 40%. the high proportion of early school leavers is alarming: 14% of girls and 18% of boys in 2004 in europe. ladies and gentlemen, it is often said that poverty has a woman's face. i think we need to correct this generalization: poverty has a child's face. this should be borne in mind when considering the implementation of the lisbon strategy and the social inclusion strategy.
the title of this report shows that europe is divided into new and old member states. the report talks about social inclusion in the new member states and does not talk about social problems as such across europe. unemployment is cruel to a person living in any part of europe. it causes many other phenomena that result from it, whether it's the psychological stress associated with it or poverty or homelessness. the report's author points out the lack of labour mobility in one area, but on the other, europe is responding to the mobility of the unemployed with so-called protective or transitional measures. one of the major reservations against enlargement was the fear of so-called economic migration and the threat to employment opportunities for their citizens. experience so far shows that none of these states which have adopted a transitional measure has so far complained of infringements or circumvention. on the other hand, the countries that didn't give us these transitional measures didn't have a problem with the increased influx of cheap labor. moreover, many countries not only do not complain but, on the contrary, profit from a cheap, educated, multilingual workforce. examples include the application of the so-called green cards for computer experts or the massive recruitment of nurses to nursing homes in the uk. social inclusion should be a consideration not only in the debate on this report, but also in other reports that this parliament is debating. here let me remind you of the discussion of the issue of working time and respecting the principle that everything a worker does must be counted as his legal time, everything he does in excess should be paid properly. whatever cover we put on overtime, we tolerate one employee working from morning till night and other people not getting a chance to get a job and becoming homeless.
in writing. i justify my positive vote on the csaba öra report by its relevance to social inclusion in the 10 new member states. the rapporteur has documented in detail the basic challenges facing the new member states in the fight against poverty and social exclusion. in the debate, the new member states' main arguments were intended to draw attention to the seriousness of the matter. in their speeches, they spoke of the poverty that results in the social inclusion of children and the impact on the life chances of the new generation. for example, even in my country, slovakia, according to statistics, up to 21% of the population lives below the poverty line, mostly in the less developed regions of the country. this is the basis for tackling the enormous task facing the eu in meeting the ambitious objectives of the lisbon strategy in terms of job creation, social cohesion and sustainable development. the eu's progress depends on access to the basic rights of the most vulnerable eu citizens, which are prevalent in the eu-10 in terms of social inclusion and the fight against all forms of discrimination.
i would like to begin by thanking mr juncker, but i don't think he's interested in our views. i would like to say, however, that i appreciate the way in which he has tried to integrate the new member states into the european union. i regret that the luxembourg presidency will be associated with the failure of the constitutional treaty. but i must say that it is precisely the council's inability to deal with the present situation that shows the need for this constitutional treaty. it is not the constitutional treaty that is dead, but unfortunately it is the council that is dead and inactive, unable to resolve this deadlock. members of the european council, in an effort to save their own political skin at home, have trouble reaching an agreement. today, the only ones who can agree, or take a majority decision, are the european parliament and the european commission. both institutions work, taking decisions that directly affect the lives of the citizens of the european union. during your presidency, it became clear that the objectives set by the lisbon strategy were unrealistic. but the reality, the proposal for a solution, was not offered to us and remains a hot spot for the next presidency. and unfortunately, the future presidency is no guarantee that the lisbon strategy will be able to be addressed, apart from criticism. if kissinger were to ask for the telephone number of europe today, he would be given 25 digits and could choose. who? the big one? the rich? active? what is it? they are the ones who have turned their backs on solidarity and all of us today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have one more comment on the previous item. june 17, 2005 will go down in european history as a failure. after a clear signal from the european parliament, when we overwhelmingly approved the böge report on the financial perspective, we eagerly awaited the outcome of the summit, hoping for a positive conclusion. that's not what happened. one fifth of the eu-25 has selfishly failed, and enlarged europe has been slapped again. nor did the willingness of the poorer european ten to compromise at any cost in the pursuit of agreement. despite the failed referendums on the constitutional treaty and the budgetary fiasco at the june summit, we have started to build a new european wall between the old and the enlarged part of the union. and the word "citizen" has become a buzzword for us politicians again. but let's not forget that the chinese train is heading for europe at cosmic speed. we've slowed down the european one, even deflected it to three gears. if we do not give the union a fresh breath as soon as possible, we will have to turn the unfulfilled lisbon strategy into a european tragedy.
i would like to support the position of the rapporteur, mr karas. i consider that many of the objections and rejections by the european council were superficial and not sufficiently thought out and justified. in the shortness of time, i would like to touch in particular on the points contained in the council's comments on articles 6 (1) and 7 (2) (a). as regards article 6 (1), it is clear that there is a fundamental difference between the reporting and monitoring of the absolute value of the deficit/surplus of public finances and the ratio of the total debt of public finances to a specified base, for example to gross domestic product, which has a substantially higher discount rate for fiscal prudence than the absolute data on the level of deficits. i therefore support the position of the european parliament as put forward by mr karas on this and other points. beyond the european parliament's opinion, i would like to challenge the wording of article 7 (2) (a) as amended by the european council, which allows for a deviation from the medium-term budgetary objective in relation to multi-pillar pension reforms. this can only be applied if the cost of pension reforms is demonstrably addressed at the expense of lower final consumption or rising savings of citizens, and not by covering pension deficits in the short or medium term with one-off and non-recurring revenues from privatisation, as is currently the case in several european union countries.
in writing. i could not support the resolution on the outcome of the european council (brussels 16-17 june 2005) because of its excessive formality using generic official phrases. it's a complicated bureaucratic thing with no telling value. its individual points are not clear but understandable formulations that would offer an understandable solution to the complex situation in which europe found itself after the two unsuccessful referendums on the constitutional treaty and the subsequent non-approval of the 2007-2013 budget. the basic principles relating to the internal market are not mentioned here, e.g. the attitude towards the services directive. the importance of regional policy and its structural instruments for gradually closing the gap between advanced and lagging regions was stressed. the lisbon strategy is a phrasebook, but it does not say whether it should be finally put into practice. if we want to make politics understandable to the european citizen, we must change our official rhetoric to one that is understandable to the citizen. it's the only way to regain his trust.
for the ppe-de group. first, before touching on the specific aspects of the communication strategy, i would like to thank mr maaten, the rapporteur, for his excellent report and, of course, for the good cooperation. i also agree with several of my predecessors that the introduction of the euro in the old member states was carried out in the context of a slowdown in economic growth in the euro area, with insufficient structural reforms and also with the weak implementation of the lisbon strategy. this has had a significant indirect effect on the negative perception of the euro among our citizens. i agree with mr maaten that, despite the fact that the process of introducing the euro in the 12 member states was one of the most successful projects in the history of the european union, the citizens of the individual countries perceive this fact very differently and we must state that we have not approached the citizen who perceived the introduction of the euro to increase consumer prices. this, of course, then had a negative impact on the general public's overall opinion of the introduction of the euro. how can such cases be avoided in the new member states that are seeking an early introduction of the euro? already in the new member states, there is a widespread perception of the negative impact of the euro on consumer prices. a more vigorous and, above all, permanent communication campaign, tailored to the specific country, or even region, will certainly be needed. the new member states should also benefit from all, in particular good, experiences of the old member states, especially in the framework of twinning programmes. they are certainly not mandatory, but in any case the member states should find their partners to exchange the necessary experience to spread the good news of the introduction of the euro.
i am convinced that the introduction of the euro and the creation of the euro area is one of the best and most convincing manifestations of the european union's viability. the european union has become stronger, more stable and at the same time more open internally. however, it is necessary to get used to the fact that for various reasons citizens do not always react positively to new things, especially if they do not immediately bring tangible positive changes in the short term. they say a good thing grows on its own. i think the same will be true historically for the euro. while the older and middle generations will remember the former national currencies with nostalgia, the younger generations are already embracing the euro as their currency. similarly, the younger generations will no longer be affected by the various prejudices that have resulted from decades of divided europe. a stable and solid euro will undoubtedly be a prerequisite for the exhibition, but it will also be an expression of responsible policies at both the european central bank and the individual member states. however, these need to be assessed objectively. the european parliament must not, however, step on its tongue and reject its own amendments adopted at first reading, as it did at the june plenary session, when discussing mechanisms for a stricter monitoring of budget deficits.
mr maatten's report gives us the opportunity to assess the range of benefits of membership of the economic and monetary union and the euro as a major symbol of european integration and a means of bringing the european people closer to the ideals on which the union is based. its timeliness is enhanced by the fact that ten new countries are preparing, on the basis of their commitment in the accession treaty, to adopt the euro as the sole legal tender within a timeframe dependent on the fulfilment of the five main criteria of the maastricht rules. although the benefits of the single currency and its associated instruments cannot be disputed, a certain part of the european public has a negative view of the euro, associating it with price increases. they are relying on feelings of both the guests and the eu-12 population, which have not been proven in the end. it also echoes the concerns of the people of the three old member states that have not adopted the euro. although some colleagues think that information campaigns are a waste of resources, the recent experience of two unsuccessful referendums in france and the netherlands convinces me that the lack of information among voters has led to the collapse of the architecture of the union's most important project, the european constitutional treaty. it is a coherent, ambitious and long-term communication strategy for the euro that can help us to reconnect with citizens and convince them of the benefits the union brings to their daily lives. the campaign must be clear and understandable, but simple and properly targeted, especially in remote regions with limited possibilities for public information. it needs to be targeted at people in employment and in particular at vulnerable groups such as pensioners, the unemployed, the disabled and minorities. through it, we will explain to consumers the main principles to n! the commission has also been able to identify the main causes of price changes in the euro area. in the spirit of the completion of the community's monetary stability project, as its most successful project to date, we endorse this report so that the right approaches and know-how acquired in the previous introduction of the euro, justified by a successful campaign, will be useful both in the introduction of the euro in the new member states and in future enlargement.
for a child, a toy serves not only as entertainment but also as a means of learning and exploring the world. a toy should please a child, not hurt him. for these reasons, and in order not to harm him and in any event not to endanger his health, i welcome the report and i congratulate mr trakatellis, especially for respecting the principle of non-harm as a doctor. the report distinguishes between three toxic phthalates that should be clearly banned and three others that are in doubt and should be replaced by non-toxic substitutes. i think it is unwise to differentiate between toys that are designed for children under three years of age and those that are designed for children over three years of age, because as a mother, i know that very often older children play with younger children with the same toys. it is important to note that phthalates can be absorbed into the child's body not only through the mouth but also through the skin, and from this they can cause further illnesses. moreover, attention must be paid to toys that the child puts in his mouth. i therefore ask that these toys be clearly labelled and, in particular, that the phthalates or the composition of the toy be indicated on the toy. the solution is not to use these non-compliant toys as animal toys.
the only thing that is open to consideration is the adoption of a directive which establishes the clear criteria necessary to distinguish patentable inventions implemented by computers from non-patentable inventions and ensures the effective protection of such inventions in the member states of the european union. the directive must prevent the shift towards patenting non-patentable subject-matter such as trivial non-technical processes, business methods and the patenting of software as such. these are in particular the amendments which propose to replace the term 'computer implemented invention' by 'computer controlled invention' or 'computer assisted invention', which define the concept of technical contribution more precisely, which also define the concepts relevant to the assessment of the technical nature of the invention and which clearly state that claims to a computer program as such, but also to a media, are not inadmissible. otherwise, the proposal for a directive cannot be supported.
article 160 of the treaty provides that the european regional development fund is intended to help redress the main regional disparities in the community. the proposed amendment no 8 pays particular attention to ensuring that support from this fund is complementary to support from the european agricultural fund for rural development, which is natural. why do i bring it up? the success of our efforts to reduce regional disparities in the european union depends directly on the success of rural development. europe's leading regions are predominantly rural and europe's lagging regions are the most rural. and yet, ladies and gentlemen, the current analysis clearly shows that where the farmers prosper, the countryside and the whole region prosper, where they decline, the countryside and the whole region decline. this is true, ladies and gentlemen, almost without exception. it is therefore a challenge to our efforts to reduce regional disparities, if at the same time we underestimate the european union's common agricultural policy, which is concerned with the sustainable prosperity of agriculture and the countryside. ladies and gentlemen, please keep in mind that we can never successfully solve the european union's regional development problems without ensuring rural development, and a prosperous rural area is only realistic if farmers are prosperous. ladies and gentlemen, we are not competitors.
the european social fund is undoubtedly an important part of the promotion of european social and employment policy. it also contributes significantly to the lisbon strategy objectives of creating new jobs, promoting education and training, promoting cohesion and social inclusion and, last but not least, tackling gender inequalities. i would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleague, mr silv peneda, for his work in preparing this report. i welcome the effort to make it possible for this regulation to eliminate as far as possible the significant disparities that exist between the 25 member states of the european union in the fields of employment, social affairs, training and education. the european social fund is an important instrument for promoting social inclusion and access to employment for certain disadvantaged groups, such as people with disabilities. i am very pleased that we have succeeded in parliament in making the protection of these persons one of the priorities of this instrument in the text of the regulation. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the amendment which i tabled in plenary on wednesday with my colleague jan březin, supported by many members from slovakia, the czech republic, poland and hungary. this is amendment no 98, in which we jointly propose to include in the recitals of this regulation that, i quote, 'one of the priorities of the european social fund is to compensate for the negative effects of the exclusion of workers from the new member states from the eu labour market'. in our view, this clause is of great political importance in the context of the decision to provide for transitional periods for the access of workers from the new member states to the labour market of the european union. today we know that this decision, taken before our accession to the union, has proved to be unjustified.
the status of women is not only a measure of the development of democracy in turkey. in this respect, turkey has made great progress, even if we know that there are loopholes. no one doubts that the amendment to the constitution, the new penal code, is a great step forward not only in women's rights, but in universal human rights. however, practice shows that the application of the law in the area of implementation is slow and inconsistent. it's not just that traditions, customs are harder to change than the law. the report encourages the turkish government to be more consistent in changing the situation. it's good that the constitution places the responsibility of creating equal opportunity in the hands of the government, but there's no strategy behind it to see how the government wants to achieve that goal. it's good that the law allows men to live in only one marriage, but the practice is that imams marry both the second and third wife. it's good that about 40 percent of university professors are women, but that doesn't change the fact that almost a quarter of women are illiterate. where the government is committed, the results are visible. in recent weeks, an official campaign has registered more than 20,000 unregistered children in a single day. the report presented, together with the amendments, aims to make practical progress in overcoming the often vast gaps between the de jure and de facto situation in the field of human rights.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, i would first like to thank my colleagues on the committee on women's rights and gender equality for their fruitful and effective collaboration. i would then like to raise two topical points: firstly, the obligation to respect the legislative sovereignty of the member states, and secondly, the economic recognition of women's work in all its forms. firstly, yes to a social europe, facilitating full equality between men and women but also yes to respect for the different cultures of the states. the beijing action programme is clear and the european union should also respect it. i quote: 'the implementation of any political programme is the sovereign responsibility of each state, acting with respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the consideration and strict respect for the diverse religious and ethical values, cultural heritage and philosophical convictions of individuals and their communities should help women to fully enjoy their fundamental rights in order to achieve equality, development and peace.' finally, since this is a recast, it has only been possible to take up the data already established in previous directives. nevertheless, a directive on the economic value of women's work in the non-market and informal sectors, and even on women's unpaid work in the field of social, intergenerational or occupational solidarity, would be useful. this has economic value. i would invite all colleagues to familiarize themselves with the thought of the nobel prize winner gary becker, whose work has rightly assessed the economic value of women's work in all its forms. this is something that deserves to be fully reconsidered, evaluated and quantified in the context of full economic equality between men and women.
we have heard for some time that there is no need to go back to the past and that it is not important to talk about the justification of the invasion of iraq by the united states of america and its ad hoc coalition or allies. i'm sorry, but i strongly disagree with that view, because an american-created and led ad hoc coalition attacked a sovereign state without any international and legally acceptable mandate. ladies and gentlemen, secretary straw, history has shown us many times in the past that many of the mistakes mankind could have avoided had it consistently analyzed its own mistakes and moral failings. unfortunately, i think we're hopeless at this. mr. dimitrakopoulos, not only do i know your name, i respect you as a fellow member of the foreign affairs committee. however, i cannot support the resolution you have tabled, although i know how much work you have put into it and i agree with mrs de keyser that without our amendments being passed, this resolution will have no weight at all.
mr president, i would like to thank my friend luisa morgantini for her excellent initiative in putting the issue of poverty in africa on the agenda. two fundamental points: yes to effective aid, but also in qualitative terms, yes to international aid, but above all with respect for the dignity of the poor countries. to overcome poverty, heads of state and experts have adopted a purely quantitative approach, which aims at measurable economic outcomes but ignores the unpaid informal work of the poorest families, including intergenerational work. the pride of parents who raise their children, even in extreme poverty, is not measured in quantity. to overcome poverty in africa, we must - and this is a deontological condition - develop a sense of social justice and the common good at international level. many countries that are economically poor but rich in wisdom could be a great inspiration. every people inherits from its ancestors a civilization that it must preserve. it includes the institutions necessary for social life, whether political or those that bear witness to the life of the mind. when these are rooted in true human values, it would be a grave mistake to sacrifice them. even more serious would be european interference which would force a people to sacrifice its values, whether religious or ethical, its cultural heritage or the philosophical convictions of the individuals and communities which are an integral part of it. this people would lose the best of themselves. he would sacrifice his life for the sake of living, and therefore his reason for living.
in writing. since there are currently wide differences in national patent laws, i am aware of the need to adopt a directive to ensure their harmonisation. i therefore support the strict protection of software by protecting the proprietary innovative solution of the whole program or parts of it, but not the granting of patents on an individual idea. einstein said that mathematical formulas can't be patented. on the other hand, a patentable invention is a solution that combines an idea with a technical effect, e.g. software for mobile phones, abs in cars. patenting will ensure that firms get a return on their costs of developing an invention and will give them an impetus for further investment in research and development. the directive proposed by the council contains vague wording which makes it impossible to draw a precise line between software and technical contribution. the lack of clarity in the definition of software patenting may cause competition between firms to take place not in the marketplace but in the courtroom. if software became patentable, the cost of the patent process would bankrupt small and medium-sized software developers. i have supported the amendments roithová - buzek, which seek to narrow the scope of the directive so as not to allow the patentability of software itself, and which are a compromise solution to prevent ambiguous interpretation of the directive. if approved, i shall support the text proposed by the council in the so-called common position of 7 march 2005 as amended.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank our colleague, mrs saïfi, for her excellent initiative and report. i want to stress the importance of this subject. a common european market requires common rules. the same competition rules must be applied to all participants in the textile market in europe. this is also part of respecting competition. china represents the ideology of state-owned enterprises. no one will accept that advantages are granted to chinese companies. our national governments have no right to give advantages to national companies. the commission would immediately issue a ban. but it would be a mistake for our domestic industries not to react to china. that is why i support the principle of reciprocity in trade, because everyone could benefit from it. it is therefore of the utmost importance to ensure the proper implementation of the high level group's recommendations and to be vigilant about the proper implementation of the shanghai agreements.
unfortunately, in today's world and in europe, we are witnessing a variety of natural disasters, such as floods or fires following catastrophic droughts. i may not be original in anything, but i feel like we're still underestimating what scientists say is the very real threat of a bird flu pandemic. klaus stor, head of the world health organization's influenza program, told german radio that if the virus mutates, it will spread very quickly. stor claims that there are scenarios that would take three to six months for the virus to spread worldwide. i share the view of many of my colleagues here that the measures taken so far by individual member states and the european union as a whole are not at a sufficient preventive level, perhaps also because of a lack of funds or a reluctance to release them. i think that we must urgently complete the system for releasing money from the european solidarity fund to prepare preventive measures against avian influenza and to purchase antiviral medicines.
mr president, the community programme progress will now include the former community programme equality in the form of a section on gender equality. i congratulate mrs jöns on her report. it is true that the lisbon challenges require an agenda for streamlined social policy in terms of expenditure and monitoring. but will the new european social policy allow women to be fully recognised in all their functions? will the value of their work be better recognised by integrating equality policy into employment policy? the etymologists are provoking us. the origin of the word economy: oikos, the house, and nomos, the rule, explains that economy is a will to manage the house efficiently. in all areas of family life and work, in the commercial and non-commercial sectors, women know how to use scarce resources and transform them. it knows how to meet the needs and desires of each individual and redistribute the results of this production. about 30% of women's economic activity is not even identified. this won a nobel prize for the american economist gari becker. in my country, behind the iron curtain, women didn't wait to get a paycheck or unemployment benefits to support their loved ones. they were just working for their own survival and that of their families. lisbon wants to fight against impoverishment in europe and for more social justice. the clearly identified market economic criteria are widely debated here. let us not be mistaken, there is still a considerable effort to be made to identify the activity of women, who are the leaders of solidarity networks, including the economic indicators of our nations' accounts. solidarity in the economy invites us to a new way of doing politics and to establish human relations based on civic and citizen behaviour which respects the otherness of each individual.
unlike in previous years, the european commission presented a restrained draft budget for the european union for 2006. compared with 2005, the european commission's proposal envisaged an increase in commitments of 4% and payments of 5,9%. compared to gross national product, it assumed a payment share of only 2%, well below the notional ceiling of the long-term financial perspective. the 2006 draft budget furthermore removed the gap between commitments and payments, but also the gap between the resources available in the national budgets and the budget of the european union. the lack of resources to cover the key policies of the european union was therefore criticised at the first stage of the examination of the draft budget in the european parliament. for this reason, the budget proposed by the european council is a cold shower, leaving little room for manoeuvre between the proposals of the european commission and the european council. a closer analysis of the corrections made to the european commission's budget shows that in the 51 items where the european council intervened compared with 2005, the vast majority (46 items) maintained the trend based on the european commission's draft budget. these council interventions therefore give the strong impression of a technocratic reduction in expenditure, with the slogan 'let's halve where expenditure is increasing compared to 2005' and 'let's take more where expenditure is decreasing compared to 2005'. such an approach by the european council undermines the atmosphere of mutual trust in the ongoing budgetary process and may lead to a protracted war of position between the key institutions of the european union.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs grossetête, as well as the previous speakers, for her work on this important document. it aims to improve the current situation, which is medically unacceptable and ethically at least unfair to children. i don't think it takes a medical degree to understand that a child is not a diminished adult. a child is an individual with a very different metabolism than an adult. the dose of medicine needed to treat a disease cannot be reduced for a child in proportion to his or her weight. we know that there are often side effects that are easy for an adult to handle, but that can be a serious complication for a child. that is why this report is important, and i thank you, madam president, for your efforts. i know it has not been easy to respect the medical view, the demands and the recommendations of doctors and on the other hand to respect the often legitimate demands and the demands of the pharmaceutical industry. i rather regret that the debate in parliament on this directive has focused on whether patent protection should be six months, three plus three, or four plus two. in the context of priority, this fact is not important and decisive. it is important and a priority that children receive the final product - a medicine that has been researched and has been aimed at a different status and has respected that status, the status of the child. our goal is a healthy child. if the by-product is a happy pharmaceutical company, we've achieved what we wanted and what we should have done.
today, we have the opportunity and the responsibility to make decisions about our children's health. in this discussion, we must keep in mind medical considerations and not be swayed by purely economic considerations of who gains and who loses. as a doctor, i am a strong advocate of the view that research into paediatric medicines must always be compulsory, safe, highly professional and subject to constant monitoring. it's also because the drugs for children are not always enough, and the development of new molecules has to go forward. at the same time, we must all realize that the preparation of medicines for children cannot be based on the premise, as has been said many times before, that the child is only a reduced adult. the child has its own specific characteristics, a completely different metabolism and different sensitivity to medication, as dr. belohorsky said just before me. the european union must therefore establish binding rules for all member states that do not endanger children's health but rather ensure the supply of quality paediatric medicines at the optimum time. that is why, in the debate in committee, we took account of the various views of the major interest groups and their expert arguments, and that is why i propose, with the full support of my political group, that the incentives for manufacturers take account of the costs that the manufacturer has had to incur in developing medicines, as well as ensuring at least a minimum period of time when the newly developed medicinal product will not yet be produced by generic companies. responsibility requires us to review the effectiveness of the measures taken after six years and, if necessary, to adjust the parameters set accordingly. finally, mr president, i would just like to support the idea of the rapporteur, mrs françoise grossetête, to create a mice agency (medicines investigation for the children of europe). with these parameters set, we are ensuring that all children in the european union have the same access to first-class medicines, and i call on you to take responsibility.
let me thank the rapporteurs and all the colleagues who voted in favour of the reports under which slovakia will receive eur 5.6 million from the european solidarity fund to restore the forests destroyed by the november storm in the high tatras. it is the culmination of an initiative by slovaks, which started with the organisation of an exhibition on the tatra mountains in strasbourg. this gesture by the european parliament is a show of solidarity for all those who know and love our whales and did not wait idly for the funds that slovakia will receive almost ten months after the natural disaster. this summer, enthusiasts from 17 european countries restored the green necklace on the chest of the giant ape and repaired damage to forest cover estimated at up to €195 million. on average, 95 brigade members carried out the initiative project 'water forest' of the ngo 'people and water' every day. this interesting project, under the aegis of the government committee and other institutions, can also be piloted abroad.
i have been involved in tourism for a long time and i appreciated mr queiro's initiative. the report presented accurately highlights the complexity of tourism and the need for its coordination at european level. the development of this economic sector not only supports the restaurant, accommodation and transport services, but also, ultimately, innovation, culture, the arts and agriculture. this multiplier effect will undoubtedly increase the stagnating growth dynamics, accelerate the shift of national economies towards service economies and reduce the high unemployment rate that is plaguing several european countries. the development of special types of tourism, such as rural, seaside or congress tourism, could also avoid the negative aspects of the sector, in particular seasonality. a well-known tourist destination is often at the interface of two or three member states, so promoting tourism at european level would also increase the development of often peripheral border regions. i am of the opinion that it is not necessary to develop a new financial instrument for this purpose, but to coordinate effectively the existing ones. the eu should also promote less visited areas. in addition to the economic and social aspects, the cultural aspect is also important. learning about europe's cultural heritage raises awareness of history and at the same time builds a common european identity. the report clearly shows that there is a huge potential in the tourism sector. it is therefore essential that europe respond as quickly as possible and use it to its advantage.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank eva-britt svensson who took the initiative to launch this report. i'll have one word for you: "vigilance". the extent and relevance of the rapporteur's remarks highlight discrimination which seems to come from another era. it is unacceptable that today, simply being a woman means that you are at greater risk of not being born and then being treated less well than a man. health is our most precious asset and that asset is currently in danger. in recent years, there has been a growing link between women's physical and mental health and their economic status. poor women have more physical and psychological health problems than other women. they have a lower life expectancy, they age earlier, they take more medication. one in two teenage girls from disadvantaged backgrounds has a high level of psychological distress. more than half of single mothers live in poverty; they take more medication than other mothers, and their level of psychological distress is particularly high. women with less education, unemployment or poverty are more affected by psychological distress and physical health problems. thus, women's poverty, single parenthood and social isolation are an explosive cocktail that endangers women's health, which is simply intolerable. this report is a very useful and timely reminder. there are no individual explanations and solutions, so we have to find collective explanations and solutions. that is our political mission.
i consider the joint motion for a resolution on natural disasters to be a very important signal to the european citizen and i voted in favour of it. its importance is enhanced by the fact that climate extremes are no longer an accident but a fundamental trend in weather. the impact of global warming on daily weather is obvious. achieving the kyoto targets is becoming a major challenge for the whole world. unless greenhouse gas emissions are drastically reduced, scientists say that europe will only begin to feel the effects of the weather in the next half century. the time has come to set out a clear course and adopt measures with financial instruments that will help prevent, mitigate or at least delay natural disasters. the long time it took to release aid to the slovak tatras convinced us that the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters in the future requires full european commitment and immediate financial assistance from the solidarity fund following the submission of a request by the member states.
i would like to thank mr bowis for the preparation of this important report, to which i have tabled a number of amendments, most of which have been adopted by the committee responsible. i also thank mr bowis for accepting these comments. i agree with him that helping developing countries and tackling this problem is complicated, but if it is to be effective, it must be comprehensive and targeted. so not only perfect statistical enumeration of disease types and numbers of those affected, along with predicted possibilities of spread, but also suggestions for solutions, as he sought in his report. these are diseases that if you neglect them early on, as you did with hiv infections, that means that these diseases are spreading around the world. the lessons learned from this were evident already in the rapid and effective response to sars, possibly avian influenza. we cannot sleep well in europe, saying that we have solved the problem of tuberculosis, when we have the medicine and we can intervene effectively in the diagnosis of this disease, and when we know at the same time that many children die of this disease every day in africa. when i spoke of comprehensive aid, i also meant addressing the drinking water resources in developing countries, the scarcity of which is directly linked to the emergence and spread of certain diseases. i also thought of educational programs for children and youths, whether in reproductive health, sex education, or hygiene. the aid also includes guarantees and, if necessary, financial incentives for pharmaceutical companies that have stopped producing certain medicines for the diseases of the poor, if no one had to pay for them. last but not least, there is the need to ensure better conditions, but above all safety, for the medical staff who are helping in these areas.
in writing. the key point of my agreement to the joint motion for a european parliament resolution on the opening of negotiations with turkey, drawn up in the light of the resolution of 15 december 2004 and the conclusions of the european council of 17 december 2004, will be the adoption of amendments nos 2 and 3. if these amendments are not adopted, i shall vote against this resolution. i am taking this step for the following reasons. i believe that the copenhagen criteria for opening accession negotiations between turkey and the eu are not met, as there are still problems with respect for human rights, the failure to address the problems of the kurdish minority and, most importantly, the fact that turkey refuses to legally and politically recognise one of the eu member states, cyprus. without the unanimous consent of all member states, a mandate to open accession negotiations with turkey is impossible.
in writing. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution - 25 years of solidarity and its legacy for europe. the 25th anniversary of the polish trade union movement solidarity is a significant jubilee not only for poland but its core message of solidarity in a pan-european context also deserves the attention of the european parliament. it is an important signal, on the one hand, to point to the courage of the polish people, transformed into this movement, led by its leader lech walesa, in the fight against the totalitarian regime, which was overshadowed by the soviet empire. on the other hand, it is an effort to highlight the values of solidarity, freedom, peace and human rights that are a legacy for the whole of europe. paying due attention to the historical events that led to the fall of the berlin wall, the gentle revolution in czechoslovakia, the independence of the baltic states, means not forgetting the victims of totalitarian regimes and at the same time presenting history truthfully to a younger generation that has not experienced totalitarianism. this moment of totality is a sobering warning to those who yearn for its return today. it is a force for nations that are experiencing it today. it is also a memorial to the great man john paul ii. his words - do not be afraid! - were heard in gdansk and, during his pontificate, deeply impressed on the hearts and minds of people all over the world.
a few months ago, the european union institutions were engaged in a debate on energy security in europe. it has been stated, i note, platonically, that within 20 years the dependence of european countries on external energy sources will increase from 50 to 70 per cent. the countries of the european union do not have significant natural energy resources. i therefore support measures to increase energy efficiency, alternative and renewable energy sources and to ensure energy savings. i also support the planned measures to increase oil and petroleum products stocks in the member states, as well as the european union's common approach in negotiations with opec and other countries in the interests of greater stability in the oil and energy markets. on the other hand, however, the european union institutions must also adopt more prudent approaches to the shutdown of existing energy installations. in this context, i must critically mention the rather politically motivated early shutdown of the jaslovská bohunice nuclear power plant, despite the fact that it met the criteria for safe operation. this will weaken the energy potential not only of slovakia but also of the european union.
the current energy situation, caused mainly by the oil crisis, puts us in a position to act quickly. it is therefore more than timely to use oil as efficiently and effectively as possible. there is no doubt that the rapid elimination of oil as a source of electricity must be an important step in this effort by the european union. it's time to talk about this problem really openly. nuclear energy provides a much more efficient substitute for oil both in terms of the rapid availability of production capacity and in terms of environmental protection. nuclear energy has state-of-the-art technologies with a high degree of safety. in addition, it is a clean source of energy without any co2 emissions. the shortage that nuclear opponents like to point out, nuclear waste, is also safely addressed today. investments in research into the safe recycling of nuclear waste and further development of new technologies, which the european union can also provide in the form of access to the 7th framework programme, may eliminate any doubts about the safety of nuclear power plants in the near future. on the other hand, i don't want to underestimate other alternative sources of electricity generation, of course, those that don't emit co2. the seriousness of the present energy situation, however, requires the implementation of a single rational and rapid solution: a return to nuclear energy by building new production capacities.
everyone will agree that reform of the united nations is necessary. the problem is what reform it should be. we agree that the united nations system is too complex and that it needs to be made more efficient, but i think the biggest problem is not the reform of un bodies but the inability to reach agreement at the political level among un members, as there are fundamental differences of opinion on the work of the un as such. some members want a strong un, some resist that force, and this is what makes it impossible to reach any agreement. but what i'm more interested in is the commitment of the united nations to achieve the so-called millennium development goals, which are to halve poverty, to reduce hunger, to fight malaria, to fight diseases like hiv/aids, and to respect human rights, especially women's rights. while the un has committed to meeting these goals by 2015, poverty is not decreasing, but on the contrary, it is increasing. it is estimated that if we continue at the present pace, we will reach the millennium development goals in a hundred years. in september of this year, i was the only european union institution to attend a conference on women's rights in china. it was the so-called beijing +10 conference. the first conference was in 1975, and since then another has been held every ten years. it is interesting that since 1995, no country in the world has been able to organize a fifth conference on women's issues. i ask whether the european union is not interested in information on how the declarations we are making are being implemented and how the aid, especially financial aid, is being used by the european union for some countries. to reach the millennium development goals by 2015, financial assistance needs to be more than doubled. the european union, as a major donor, must monitor how this aid is used. this is to ensure that aid is not misused for other purposes, and that the country respects the respect for human rights. if it does not respect human rights, financial aid should be withdrawn. but if we don't participate in the conferences and listen to the problems that arise in implementation, our aid to buy medicines and build schools may be used to buy weapons or recruit children into the military.
unfortunately, the countries of the european union do not have significant natural energy resources. a few months ago, the european union institutions were engaged in a debate on energy security in europe. platonically, it has been stated that within twenty years the dependence of european countries on external energy sources will increase from 50 to 70 percent. in view of these facts, i think that the european union's energy policy is very naive, especially in terms of ensuring adequate energy self-sufficiency. i certainly support measures to increase energy efficiency, to create the conditions for increasing the share of alternative and renewable energy sources, and also measures to ensure energy savings. on the other hand, in order to cover real energy consumption, it is necessary to overcome europe's phobia of nuclear energy and conventional forms of energy production, of course on the basis of strict environmental and operational rules. similarly, more prudent approaches by the european union institutions to outages of existing energy installations need to be applied. in this context, i must critically mention the rather politically motivated early shutdown of the jaslovská bohunice nuclear power plant in slovakia, despite the fact that it met the criteria for safe operation. this will weaken the energy potential not only of slovakia but of the entire european union and drain resources that could have been used, among other things, to finance programmes aimed at promoting alternative forms of energy.
in writing. the european parliament's resolution on oil dependence, which i voted in favour of, comes at a particularly hectic time, with oil prices rising steadily and threatening the economic stability of the union. europe needs to diversify energy sources and supply sources and strengthen the strategy to promote energy conservation measures as well as decentralised renewable energy sources. the use of alternative energy sources is the most logical response to the increase in oil prices. on the other hand, more prudent approaches to the unconsidered decommissioning of existing power plants are needed. of course, with strict regard to the criteria for safe operation, it is illogical to oppose nuclear energy, which is one of the most advanced technologies and a clean source of energy without co2 emissions, a priori. the unthinking approaches of those opposed to nuclear energy may seriously jeopardise the energy potential not only of slovakia but also of the union as a whole. the time has come for progressive technological solutions. one of them is the production of bioethanol and its addition to motor fuels. there is a great opportunity for farmers to go from being food producers to energy producers. within the architecture of the 7th framework programme for science and research, it is possible to consider a financial injection for innovative development in the field of alternative sources and to start their practical use right now.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a communication on the future of the european union's energy policy. i would argue as follows. renewable energy sources are, now and in the near future, perhaps the only possible solution that reduces europe's dependence on energy imports (in particular oil and gas) and thus reduces the political and economic risks that these imports pose. they are also a further step towards fulfilling the kyoto protocol's conclusions on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which have a significant impact on global weather across the world. the promotion of renewable energy sources must be part of europe's structural policy and, in particular, new member states will have opportunities to strengthen their small and medium-sized industries. there is also a great opportunity for the efficient use of public resources - the creation of added value, employment and income for rural areas with the possibility of multifunctional agriculture, which otherwise have no chance of accessing public resources due to a weaker economic context. biomass and biogas production as an eco-friendly energy generation technology can be a practical implementation of rural policy with a view to sustainable development, ensuring energy independence and creating new jobs.
i can confirm with my speech all the good things that have been said about tunisia, since i myself was a doctor in that country during the era of president burgibu. but let me confide in you with the case we are now dealing with as the slovak republic. in february 2003 a slovak citizen was detained and according to all customs and consular notification of article 36 of the vienna convention on consular relations, the slovak side was not informed of the detention of the slovak citizen until december of the same year. this citizen was denied his rights, had no interpreter, did not understand the process in which he was tried at all, and in december 2004, in two trials on the same day, was sentenced to 14 years in prison for alleged fraud. the slovak side has doubts whether the trial with this slovak citizen was impartial, whether all the standards of european law were respected and unfortunately, although the minister of foreign affairs mr kukan asked the tunisian side in the form of an aide-memoire in may this year, to date the slovak side has no answer to this. i ask the entire international community to help make the courts and democracy legal in tunisia as well.
mr. president, i have to ask you... we are discussing a problem on which we adopted a resolution just over a year ago, and then the fact-finding mission of the ep delegation to the republic of moldova took place. the report has been prepared, but it has not been considered by the subcommittee on human rights or the committee on foreign affairs. in the province of vojvodina, attacks against minorities continue. mainly against the more than a quarter of a million indigenous hungarian community members. despite the efforts of the serbian state bodies, the intimidation, the bloody incidents and the purposefully staged court proceedings against the hungarian leaders did not stop. the tension of the past is here, right next to the borders of the union. since the stability and association treaty is being prepared with belgrade, more attention should be paid to it. we must demand the enforcement of civil, human and minority rights. it's our duty. the proposal put forward is firm and constructive. let's hope he's contributing to the resolution of the unsustainable maternity situation.
mr minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, also in view of the previous discussion on the situation in iran, allow me to share with you the success of the country i represent in the european parliament. i am very proud that my country, slovakia, was elected this week by the un general assembly as a non-permanent member of the security council. the european union will also have the largest representation in the only un body authorised to decide on issues of war and peace since january 2006. it is a historic opportunity not only for slovakia but also for the whole european union, as up to one third of the members of the security council will represent the european union. while the future status of kosovo is being discussed at the un, and developments in ukraine, belarus and moldova are being assessed, the european union has a chance to contribute to the security of the entire european continent. and not just that. by resolving conflicts in the middle east or africa, the european union can establish itself as a key player on the world political stage and show the world its stance of determination and action.
i am one of those members who is not far removed from bioethical issues. in 1998, together with mr mikolášik, we initiated a resolution of the national council of the slovak republic on slovakia's accession to the so-called oviedo protocol, which prohibits cloning. i was also concerned that the controversial research on embryos and embryonic cells in slovakia should be considered a criminal offence. i therefore join the group of meps who have written to commission president barroso asking that this controversial research not be funded from the european union budget. this is the use of money for specific programmes under the seventh framework programme for science and research. i want to thank president barros for his reply, which gives the assurance that the european commission is giving this issue a multi-layered attention and that our concerns will be eliminated. i would also like to assure the president of the commission that the group of signatories to the letter will continue to follow developments in the problem closely and to take stock of them.
the rapporteur, mr bono, has rightly pointed out that education is one of the most important prerequisites for europe to become the most dynamic economy by 2010. i am glad that we in slovakia respect this fact, and i am very glad that slovakia has a commissioner in this area. the level of education is one of the highest in the european union. our students have two foreign languages as compulsory subjects since high school, and the university programme is usually five years long. only some subjects can be studied in the three-year bachelor's programme. since the slovak republic's accession to the european union, many students from slovakia have taken advantage of this freedom of movement and spent part of their studies abroad, either under the erasmus programme or as postgraduate students. but here our students encountered a problem related to the free movement of persons. as the cost of living abroad is much higher than in slovakia, a student who travels abroad temporarily usually has to work. in order to be able to work, he needs a work visa, except for ireland or the united kingdom, for example, because most countries have granted us transitional provisions that prevent the free movement of workers. visas limit the number of hours per week often to 20, sometimes less. it is these restrictions that impede the free movement of students. the fees for higher education are sometimes more than eur 1000. the weaker economy of the new member states requires that students be able to study and work at the same time, so that we try to break down the administrative barriers to obtaining work or student visas.
the rapporteur. mr president, 'where men are condemned to live in misery, human rights are violated. to unite to enforce them is a sacred duty". - father joseph wresinski. this theme of the world day against poverty is also stamped on the front of the european parliament. the eradication of poverty is essential in the new europe, beyond the strategies that will enable it to become the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world. it is necessary to promote the dignity and responsibility of all citizens. is not the well-being of society also measured by the attention paid to its weakest members? the work of the individual does indeed integrate him into a group, but this is not enough to become a citizen, as experience shows. yes, partnership with the most disadvantaged citizens is necessary because they are the experts in the fight against poverty. the poor who have not been introduced to citizenship will not be introduced to social life. could he not also be recognised as a true builder of the new europe? but for the poorest to become active partners, they need first of all a voice, recognition, security and integration. fighting extreme poverty means respecting the rights of all. the request from the fourth world committee, the oldest intergroup in the european parliament, is timely in order to strengthen the social inclusion strategy, create real conditions for participation for people living in poverty and, finally, assess the concrete impact of our european policies on the lives of the poorest families in the member states, an unavoidable imperative. a person's poverty does not mean that others should decide for him what is best for him. for example, why put children out of their families for socioeconomic reasons of extreme poverty? would it not be better, on the contrary, to support his parents who also have the right to exercise their responsibilities as mother and father? they have the same joys, the same hopes, the same fears, the same doubts, but in much more difficult circumstances. and while poverty affects women more than men, they are also the first to want to defend their loved ones against poverty and social exclusion. women, as builders of fundamental bonds and peacemakers, must be encouraged to promote human rights and the dignity of all. i would like to conclude by pointing out that 73 amendments were discussed in committee. they were accepted except for two or three of them. the report was then voted unanimously and i thank my colleagues for their good cooperation. however, i must clarify this point because my colleagues in the communist group propose, by amendment no 7, to remove access to primary health care for poor women. access to public health care is certainly an essential element in the search for a decent life for all. but that's not enough. why not support the fight against poverty for women by enabling them to stay healthy? what are we talking about? it is about giving them access to healthy food, clean drinking water, birth planning, vaccines and basic treatment for common diseases. and why deny them the right to gynaecological and obstetrical health? as a doctor, i don't understand why. to be honest, i actually think it's insulting. i call on all to promote primary health care, including for the poorest women, and to reject amendment 7.
for the ppe-de group. mr commissioner, mr president, the latest figures published by the commission show that in 17 of the 25 member states the risk of poverty for women is higher than for men. therefore, only in seventeen, because some countries did not submit data. statistics have long shown that there are two groups that are particularly at risk: firstly, single parents, of whom 85% are women, so the risk of poverty is clearly gender specific; secondly, women's disadvantage in the labour market, mainly due to motherhood, and the associated pay gaps are also carried over into retirement. two thirds of people of retirement age are women over 65 years of age, and their average income, according to the european economic and social committee, is only 53% of that of men of retirement age. the world summit on social development in copenhagen in 1995 adopted a statement that attention should be paid to the needs and rights of women and children, who often bear the brunt of poverty. women's poverty is often linked to child poverty, and with it the reproduction of a low-skilled labour force that is hard to employ, creating an intergenerational poverty trap and a significant barrier to meeting the lisbon targets, especially when we look at a simple figure like the number of children who are leaving school early, which is as high as 18% for boys. mr president, poverty clearly has a serious gender dimension. i would also like to stress this in the context of the fact that some of our colleagues consider it possible and necessary to abolish the committee on women's rights.
i thank mrs zaborska for her report on the current situation in the european union as regards the relationship between women and poverty. i believe that poverty has the face of a woman, a woman who is a mother who wants to raise her children with love, poverty has the face of an old woman who has given her work to society and it has not been appreciated, but it is also the face of a young woman who has found herself at a crossroads today - family or equality. just as day alternates with night, so too we are confronted daily with the wonderful opportunities that allow women free access to education and employment. the women's rights activists of the past might envy women today's opportunities, today's laws that are supposed to protect women. in what - or rather, what is the problem with poverty having a female face? perhaps against all expectations, gentlemen, i don't blame you this time. i see more in our desire to fulfill a function that you can only envy us a little, and that is the mother's function. it is not an inability to keep up with you in your work, for many great and important men were important just for the ant work of the humble women who were around them. society emphasizes the gift of life in women, and in some countries the law does not allow for any other option. but after a woman becomes a mother, the future of the nation should concern her, not society. the laws do not sufficiently protect her job, the mother's job in the home, nor do they make it easier. what will the future hold? the media as a model... (the chairman interrupted)
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the eurostat statistics, which show that up to 16% of the population of the european union is at risk of poverty, the report by mrs zaborska is becoming increasingly important. let me begin by thanking the rapporteur for a report that is substantive and can be a good stepping stone towards the eradication of poverty and thus towards the achievement of the fundamental objective of the lisbon strategy. the concept of poverty is closely linked to its feminization. women are most vulnerable to poverty, especially in households in the position of breadwinner. on the one hand, globalization and the penetration of computer technology have brought some women greater economic opportunities and independence. on the other hand, many have been marginalized and denied the benefits that this process offers because of low educational attainment, social prejudice, and advanced age. i agree with the rapporteur that member states must put in place measures to ensure that women in poverty have equal access to public health systems, in particular primary care, including the protection of mothers with children, and also to gynaecological care, education and practice. it's the basic drug for diagnosing poverty. it is time we could not be satisfied with a world where women and children, in particular, are starving, remain illiterate, unable to create for themselves a decent living for their loved ones. we must protect life at every moment and make the world ever more beautiful for all without distinction. i therefore call on the commission to join us in taking a responsible approach to the plight of millions of poor people, whether in the third world or in our own cities, and in creating opportunities for a life of dignity in the spirit of solidarity and european values.
in writing. the current globalising world is facing new challenges to which european society must respond. the only way out is to promote education and lifelong learning. this agenda must become a priority concern of the european union, without whose support it will not be possible to achieve the lisbon strategy's objective of becoming the most competitive education-based economy. i supported mr bonn's report, which stresses the importance of education not only in early childhood but throughout life. i appreciate the rapporteur's view on the role of universities in this process. supporting cooperation, exchanges of professors and students contributes not only to synergy in the field of research, but also to the strengthening of the european identity. we must also realise that the creation of an education-based economy and society cannot be avoided without adequate financial support. at a pan-european level, i see an opportunity for the eu to prove its commitment in this area. in the new financial perspective, the highest budget should be allocated to education and to supporting the mobility of students, trainees, teachers and scientists. only through mutual cooperation is it possible to survive in an increasingly intense international competition.
let me return to croatia for a moment, which finally received the green light on 4 october with a positive decision to open its accession negotiations. in this way, the european union has underlined the strategic importance of croatia and its positive impact on the democratisation of the entire balkan region. this was also agreed by representatives of the 15 countries of central and eastern europe at the 12th annual summit of the region's leaders, held in zagreb on 14-15 october this year. the presidents expressed their support for croatia and agreed that the enlargement of the european union could not be stopped. slovakia will also be very active in helping croatia to catch up with romania and bulgaria, which have been negotiating accession to the european union for several years. it will pass on its experience of having also been able to catch up with the other acceding countries in its accession negotiations by a brilliant finish. only an active approach to the peace process in the balkans will bring long-term stability and security to europe. a secure balkans means a secure europe.
my speech concerns the activities and staffing of the european parliament information office in bratislava, slovakia. in april 2004, dg personnel opened a competition for two posts, in categories a9 and a12. it is incomprehensible that in the course of the procedure the two options were changed to one and that in the end only category a9 for the head of the ir was recognised. the a12 candidate was also successful. not only the method of selection, but also the irresponsible procedure of the dg staff in announcing the result deserves criticism. our candidate was notified four months late. the second problem is that the ic currently has only three employees plus one temporary worker. why can't ik be staffed in slovakia like in other member states? we are in favour of creating adequate conditions in slovakia for better information of our citizens about the activities of the european parliament.
on the legislative text in question, i can only agree with the rapporteur, mr blokland, on article 175 as the most appropriate legal basis. the directive is primarily intended to protect the environment, not to facilitate the waste management trade and to promote so-called waste tourism or waste business, whereby waste is exported to countries with the most lenient regulations. this directive is particularly important for small member states and especially for new member states, which often lack the means and capacity to manage hazardous waste. it thus prevents them from becoming so-called dumping grounds for larger states. it is necessary to harmonise the rules governing the international transport of waste, since waste as such knows no borders and, in the event of an accident or an accident, may be dangerous not only for the state of final destination but also for the country of transit. it is also important that the written consent of the country of destination and the written system of so-called notifications are required, as i believe that it is necessary to have strict, clear, transparent rules to allow control and monitoring of where the waste is located. the country of destination must be notified in writing of the shipment of waste sufficiently in advance to give it the choice of accepting or not accepting the waste.
in my contribution, i would like to highlight the quality and certainly painstaking work done by rapporteur mrs doyle in preparing and negotiating this legislative proposal. i agree with her that we must do everything we can to protect the environment. in the face of the threat of global warming, it is necessary to take a serious look at the future of future generations and to take responsibility for them, and therefore to try to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to a minimum. if there are substitutes for fluorinated industrial gases which are more favourable in terms of environmental requirements, energy efficiency and health safety, we should clearly replace these gases with substances which are more environmentally friendly. but let me emphasize that this should only apply if there is a substitute. i think that in the case of the automobile industry, for example, these replacements will be easily found by 2010. however, i would like to point out that, for example, the ban on sf6 sulphurhexafluoride is also planned, which will have a negative impact on cancer treatment, as this substance is used as part of radiotherapy and there is currently no substitute. if it is banned, many patients will lose one of the most effective forms of treatment in europe.
it's been said many times that a flu pandemic is not a question of if, but a question of when. even though we all know that the risk of a flu pandemic is here and will be a reality, even though the warning was given well in advance, i feel that the european union as such is not sufficiently prepared, at least not as well as it should be. it was reported that 25 member states have national action plans and programmes. but the european union needs a common plan and i feel it is a mistake that we do not have that plan on the table today. i want a clear answer as to who will be the leader of the coordination. will it be the who, the ecdc or the european commission? new cases and countries of dead or infected birds are reported daily in the media. i think it's much more important to prepare citizens in general for the flu, and also for a common european union action plan for what happens if a pandemic breaks out. some countries have taken drastic veterinary measures, restricted free-range poultry farming, banned exhibitions. the mistake is that these measures are not adopted by the whole of the twenty-five. infectious diseases do not respect borders, especially when there is high migration. it should be stressed that not all member states will have the resources to purchase vaccines. so i propose that we have, in addition to the at-risk groups, those groups of the population who are able to buy the vaccine themselves to do so.
europe is indeed on the verge of a global crisis. that's why we need to be prepared for a pandemic, not to be caught off guard. the 1918 spanish flu pandemic is estimated to have killed at least 20 million people. according to the world health organization, this time we can expect a pandemic with a death toll of 2 to 7 million. this is not panic. the who even admits to a figure of 150 million. making a vaccine in a post-mutation pandemic will be difficult and it will be a race against time to save lives. the countries of the european union pay varying attention to this problem. the allocation of national financial resources is responsible in some countries, but there are countries that significantly underestimate the threat of the disease and, in particular, the possible consequences. i therefore call for coordination of procedures at european level. the national prevention and immunisation plans should reflect cooperation with the european institutions and other member states. each member state shall have a highly effective pandemic plan. we know that the effectiveness and the level of these plans vary. i urge the union to mobilise and release further sufficient financial, technical and material resources. many findings suggest that european states are not sufficiently prepared. half of the member states do not have enough antiviral medicines. cooperation with pharmaceutical companies must be strengthened to ensure sufficient quantities of antivirals. dr. david nabarro, the united nations coordinator for avian and human influenza, pointed out that there is a huge contrast in the allocation of funds for prevention and treatment. for example, the united nations has only $7 million to date, but the united states of america alone has already given $100 million. the un would need at least $175 million for an effective program, according to dr. nabarr. if there's an outbreak of influenza, i ask, would japan, the united states, and the european union be willing to give some poor country their resources, their vaccines, to help us locate the pandemic or the epidemic where it's located?
mr. president, i have to ask you... bulgaria and romania have concluded accession negotiations, but until they achieve full membership they still have to address the shortcomings identified in the latest european parliament decision and the new european commission report. the situation in romania is more complex. the young government of the country deserves to be commended for its vigorous efforts to address these shortcomings. but they still have a lot of problems to solve, such as justice and home affairs, corruption, the fight against organised crime and environmental protection. the plans for the gold mine in verespatak are also a tricky one, although foreign minister ungureanu promised to put an end to the matter within six months. the roma issue is a heavy burden. the new government is trying to build an efficient system, but there are still many irregularities that are unacceptable from the eu's point of view. the accession of bulgaria and romania will increase the number of roma in the union by about half, and a long-term strategy is therefore needed. the situation of minority communities has improved considerably over the past decade, but it is still far from satisfactory. why is the passage of the minority bill such a huge problem? it's a serious blow that the senate rejected the bill yesterday. i just want to warn romanian politicians to beware of statements that romania already broadly guarantees all the rights of national minorities. you're a long way from that. true, the most important, the one and a half million hungarian community has gone through a great development. they are in government, in the administration, and they can have a say in the direction of the country's domestic and foreign policy. as a representative of the hungarian community in slovakia, i am clearly interested in the members of the hungarian community in romania joining the eu as soon as possible, living as european citizens and enjoying the opportunities offered by the union. the european parliament has a duty to monitor this systematically, but it must also provide maximum assistance. i trust that the safeguard clause in our decision will not be applied.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all warmly greet the 350 young people of the movimento per la vita in italy who are following our night work. the phenomenon of migration is more than ever a challenge for the international community and for each state. the report by mr klamt is an important contribution to this necessary debate. we still talk little about the situation of immigrants in their countries of origin, but we talk more and more about immigrants, in order to highlight the problems they create in the countries where they settle. what we should be concerned about as politicians is the men and women who suffer from immigration. i am thinking in particular of the poorest individuals and families. for them, emigration may be the last resort to escape from poor living conditions. i am in favour of an immigration policy on the european continent which fully respects the european convention on human rights and in favour of its application in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. yes to the courage to distinguish between economic migration and humanitarian reception which respects the dignity of strangers. yes to the political and civic courage to choose economic immigrants according to the real needs of the labour market in the host countries. yes to the courage of governments to give jobs to all women who want them, to get them out of longterm unemployment. the committee on women's rights also stressed the need to recognise the value of informal non-market labour, which is an essential component of the fight against illegal economic immigration, of which women are often the victims. finally, one more point about women. we want cultural diversity. we are all in favour of women's health. that is why we are in favour of gynaecological, obstetrical and maternal and child protection services so that all migrant women have the maximum level of medical care.
the words of the classic say the following: it's hard to tell who to love and who to forget. in the context of the flood of amendments to increase the budget, this thesis is doubly true. i must therefore commend the considerable efforts made by the honourable rapporteurs mr pittella and mr dombrovskis of the committee on budgets of the european parliament to cope with a veritable pandemic of amendments to the 2006 budget of the european union. despite the budget committee's efforts to assess each newly proposed item carefully, the increase in budget expenditure over the european council's proposal amounts to eur 4 billion, representing an increase in expenditure of almost 4%. i do not consider that shift and the strengthening of budgetary resources to be self-sufficient. it relates in particular to the field of the structural funds, the field of science, research and education. these areas can indeed be the driving force of the european union, and the provision of a greater volume of resources and their effective use can be like viagra for a slowing european economy. however, the implementation of this increase will require considerable effort and a unified position in parliament's negotiations with the council and the commission. i would also like to stress in particular the need to use the political influence of meps in their home countries to positively shape the position of national governments in the form of the budget as adopted by the european parliament tomorrow.
madam president, i have to ask you to leave. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of the child are respected and that the rights of the child are protected. it seems that the baku state apparatus is a case of "water preacher and wine drinker". despite the efforts of the european parliament's delegation to the south caucasus so far, azerbaijan's public figures, parliament and government have a strange understanding of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. clearly, the will of the head of state and his court prevails. as the commissioner mentioned, it is worth noting that last week president aliyev dismissed and detained several high-ranking state officials on the pretext of an attempted coup against him. the campaign culminated in the arrest of dozens of opposition and civil activists. all signs point to the government's use of force to protect its monopoly and its attempts to disrupt the gatherings of opposition forces. as azerbaijan is also part of the eu's neighbourhood policy, we are interested in a fundamental change in the current situation, and the next elections are the best chance of achieving this. the european parliament has an interest in establishing a multi-party legislative framework that also provides equal opportunities for the opposition. i think that the proposal we are putting forward is extremely important. in it, the european parliament declares that only fair, free elections and the guarantee of equal opportunities are acceptable to international public opinion. the european parliament is not only warning azerbaijan, but also sending an important message to the whole of the south caucasus. baku can prove it on november 6th.
the european parliament debated the report by mrs klamt on the european union's approach to managing economic migration at its october session. the european parliament voted to reject an amendment which states that it is not possible to adopt measures on economic migration until equal rights for all citizens of the european union are guaranteed in the area of free movement. for citizens of the new countries, this means that the european labour market will be opened up earlier to migrants from third countries and their position will be more favourable than that of citizens of the new countries. this decision of the parliament has a particularly bad reputation in the new member states. all existing analyses show that there has been no flooding of labour markets with workers from new countries and that the economic benefit is rather positive or clearly positive. instead of shortening the transitional periods, i find it really worrying that parliament's decision deepens the discrimination against citizens from the new member states.
the slovak republic has committed itself in the accession treaty to shut down - and i emphasize the word shutdown - two reactors at the v1 nuclear power plant in jaslovské bohunice. the slovak economy is thus faced with a 19 per cent decline in electricity production, which has consequences in areas other than economic. to cope with this difficult task, the european union has promised to provide slovakia with adequate financial assistance. the european commission has proposed €237 million for the period 2007-13. the calculation of these costs was made on the basis of 2000 data, which would have led to the actual costs amounting to eur 750 million. the amount of eur 237 million proposed by the commission, plus eur 180 million already granted, is less than one third of the actual costs. ladies and gentlemen, i call on you to exercise your discretion in voting in favour of the amount of 400 million euros approved by the committee on industry, research and energy.
the european parliament has a duty to protect the environment. madam president, commissioner, we should thank the european commission for tackling the challenge of the social dimension of globalisation. i would, however, like the european institutions and the national authorities to engage in their own reflection on the basis of the actual conditions in the member states. the social dimension of globalisation requires us to adapt the structures of society to the commitments we have made, without sacrificing the very foundations of our society. i would like to start by addressing the social dimension of globalisation from the point of view of citizenship. nothing paralyses citizenship more than the feeling of inferiority generated by the daily attacks of poverty, subordination and dependence. all our efforts should therefore be directed towards ensuring that all those who are excluded from progress today because of poorly controlled globalisation can retain or regain their dignity. a second point concerns one of the greatest challenges of globalisation: poverty. last month, on 17 october, we commemorated the world day against poverty. we said that the way to fight poverty was to work in close partnership with the poorest. unfortunately, the european commission has not yet heard these requests. i therefore hope that the european and national institutions will take seriously the contribution of the poorest families and citizens. they are the real experts in understanding the social dimension of globalisation. my third point concerns the contribution of women to this debate. the lisbon strategy foresees that at least 60% of women will be participating in the labour market by 2010. i am convinced that this objective has already been achieved. it is enough to recognise all the work of women which is not officially recognised by national and european authorities. what do we really know about the involvement of women when they are leading intergenerational solidarity networks and other forms of informal work? the whole society benefits. i encourage the services of the european commission and the member states to recognise the work of women, whatever their social status, which is not yet officially recognised. this is also part of the responses to the social challenge of globalisation. (applause) i would like to thank
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to highlight the hard work of mr sacconi's rapporteur in preparing this report. as a doctor, i am aware that in the last decade there has been a great increase in serious illnesses, many of them the result of the hazardous use of chemicals. however, in many cases, there was also a lack of information from the manufacturer on the effects. it is important to remember that reach is not only a fight between the chemical industry and the environment, but also a competitive fight within the chemical industry between large and small and medium-sized enterprises. i appreciate that, thanks to reach, some substances will be removed and replaced by less dangerous substitutes. however, most of the chemicals in the report will not be removed from the environment. i hope that by testing them, the public will be directly informed of their dangers. of course, i appreciate that, because the public will be more careful in dealing with them. however, my serious reservation is that there is a certain discrimination between the 10 new member states, which have been involved in the reach debate for only one year, and are therefore less prepared than the old member states, which have been discussing the issue for three years. the slovak republic supports and recommends the approval of the proposed 'one substance, one registration' system for its contribution to reducing the overall cost of testing and eliminating unnecessary red tape. since the aim of reach is to reduce the hazard of a chemical, not to increase the price of the final product, which derives from the high price of the test, i think it would be good to also introduce the standardisation of test prices and to adapt them to the weaker economies of the new member states.
for the ppe-de group. it is well known that under political pressure from the european union, slovakia undertook in the accession process to prematurely shut down its nuclear power plant in jaslovské bohunicia, despite the fact that this nuclear facility, after upgrading all security systems, met all safety standards. this fact has been confirmed by the international atomic energy agency. the cost of upgrading these systems alone was eur 250 million. on the other hand, the european union has committed itself to participate in the compensation of the costs. for the years 2007 to 2013, the european commission proposes a financial contribution of eur 237 million, an amount that is disproportionately low compared to the total costs based on the latest analyses submitted by the slovak government. the european commission has based its calculation of the estimated costs of the shutdown, as well as the determination of the aid, on old and rather dubious methods, taking into account the process of the shutdown itself. on the basis of the new analyses, the total direct costs are estimated at eur 1,3 billion, indirect costs at eur 1,8 billion and losses from non-generated energy at eur 1,5 billion, with the life of this power plant set to end in 2015. the total cost with this loss of performance is therefore eur 4,6 billion. in view of these facts, the parliament's committee on industry, research and energy in its amended report proposes to increase the financial support from the european union for the years 2007 to 2013 to the value of eur 400 million. the proposal is also a positive compromise for the slovak government, which had requested aid of around eur 700 million. i am personally aware of the difficult situation in which the european union does not yet have a financial perspective for the years 2007 to 2013 approved. pressures for budget reductions by most member states are strong and often justified. on the other hand, slovakia cannot gamble with the safety of its own citizens unless it has sufficient financial resources to safely exit early. in the context of the growing energy crisis and the increasing electricity consumption, it was not prudent to decide to close a safe nuclear power plant prematurely. slovakia will thus lose 19% of its generating capacity and will likely be dependent on imported electricity in the near future. but apparently, someone in the european structures is fine with that. mistakes are made, and we all have to pay. i hope we learn from these senseless mistakes in the future.
in the context of accession negotiations, the institutions of the european union forced the early decommissioning of two units of the jaslovská bohunice nuclear power plant by the slovak republic, despite the fact that the international atomic energy agency confirmed that the criteria for its longer-term safe operation were met. the forced and politically motivated early shutdown of these nuclear capacities will weaken the energy position of slovakia, but also of the european union as a whole. the slovak republic will not generate sufficient resources to finance the safe shutdown of nuclear capacity, even with the current level of assistance from the european union. by comparison, the european union expects to provide three times more resources than slovakia for the decommissioning of the nuclear capacity of the lithuanian ignalia power plant. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you to approve at least a minimum solution, namely an increase in support for the shutdown of the nuclear units in jaslovské bohunice from 237 million to 400 million euros, as proposed by the itre committee.
i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the amendments tabled by the itre committee on the early closure of the v1 nuclear power plant in jaslovská bohunice, slovakia. the committee's proposals state that slovakia is safely fulfilling its tasks in this area. the proposal also recognises the significant financial damage incurred by slovakia from the premature closure of the power plant. this loss is mainly due to the non-availability of the financial resources planned for the years of early closure. the commission also notes that the slovak authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the proposed eur 400 million from the european union budget to finance early retirement is therefore a necessary precondition for the implementation of the commitments undertaken by the european union and the slovak republic.
the issue of financing the early closure of the jaslovská bohunice nuclear power plant is a key priority not only in the context of nuclear energy but also in the context of the entire energy policy of the slovak republic. slovakia is ready to fulfil its commitment under protocol no 9 of the treaty of accession to the european union, despite having invested eur 250 million in modernisation and security in jaslovské bohunice. the commission notes that the slovak authorities have not provided any evidence that the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant would have a significant impact on the economic viability of the slovak economy. at present, public opinion in slovakia is inclined against the closure of the nuclear power plant in jaslovské bohunicia. the slovak population is sensitive to the consequences of the energy crisis and the subsequent increase in electricity prices. in view of this, any refusal by the european union to increase its financial resources would strengthen the position of those opposed to the cessation. on the basis of a cost analysis used as a basis for negotiations with the european commission, slovakia requested eur 702 million instead of the eur 237 million proposed by the commission. the european parliament's committee on industry, research and energy voted for a compromise amount of €400 million. i would also like to ask for the sympathy and solidarity of all my colleagues with my country and to ask for support for the opinion of the itre committee of the european parliament.
in the process of accession to the european union, slovakia has done its utmost to preserve the positive aspects of the operation of vvr nuclear power plants, but to bring safety to the level of the standard required in europe, for the benefit of the slovak people and, of course, the people of all the countries of the union, especially the surrounding countries. we invested around eur 250 million in the accession process of the two power plants in jaslovské bohunice, which is not a small amount for a country with a gdp just above 50% of the eu average, and according to the international atomic energy agency, we have secured this security reliably, with effect until 2015. a layman would ask: so why do you need money to shut it down in the 2007-2013 budget period? an expert would have answered: because slovakia under pressure, let's call it circumstances, committed itself in the eu accession process to shut down the two blocks in question in 2006 and 2008 respectively. simple math predicts that many tens of millions of euros will be wasted. but we have been assured that the union will help us during the strike. if the total direct and indirect costs of the closure amount to a few million euros, the amount of 237 million proposed by the commission is considerably small. of course, as proposed by ms harms in her second report, slovakia supports the early creation of special funds for decommissioning nuclear power plants and is prepared to cover the vast majority of the total cost of the shutdown itself. although the level of economic development must be taken into account. however, if the experts estimate the need for aid to meet the time limits at eur 702 million, the itre-approved eur 400 million compromise seems clearly acceptable and there are several arguments why such an amount cannot be a problem even when forming the final version of the budgetary perspective. i think the two reports we're discussing have a common denominator, which is the safety of nuclear power plants. if there is a common will of the eu to meet certain time criteria in this respect, there must also be a common will of the eu to provide the necessary funding for this purpose. if these wills do not go hand in hand, i believe that this will undermine the coherence of the action, the consequences of which the union will have to bear sooner or later.
europe was among the first to notice climate change from the dangers of climate change. summers are warmer, winters are rainy, river flows have dropped dramatically, soil moisture has decreased, we have seen increased flooding, as well as extreme droughts and hurricanes. there is no doubt that these changes are directly related to human activity, especially in developed countries, which are largely responsible for the high levels of greenhouse gas emissions. the european union is also one of the biggest polluters. each year, these disasters cause great economic damage, loss of life, and increased disease of various kinds as a result of the polluted environment. joint action by the biggest polluters - china, the us, the european union or india - to combat climate change is essential. it is unlikely that mankind will abandon such aids as cars or other means of transportation and use bicycles for transportation. innovation in existing technologies and the development of more environmentally friendly forms of energy are therefore essential. more use of solar, hydro and wind energy is needed, as well as support for increased research into these new forms of energy. in europe, we are seeing many young scientists leaving for the united states because they are not provided with adequate conditions in europe for high-quality and effective research in this field. moreover, some parts of the research are not even covered by europe yet. climate change will also have an impact on the health of people in europe. europe will begin to experience diseases that are not typical of europe but of the southern geographical zones in the context of climate change. warming may increase the incidence of infectious diseases carried by arthropods, such as malaria-carrying mosquitoes or certain viral encephalitis.
as a slovak mep and member of the environment committee, i naturally voted for an increase in aid for the shutdown of the two reactors at the jaslovská bohunice nuclear power plant. the slovak government, whose prime minister and ministers made the difficult decision to withdraw from the eu in the accession negotiations, would have a hard time explaining if the vote in the european parliament had gone the other way. the 19% decline in electricity production and the high direct and indirect costs that will arise from the suppression of jaslovské bohunic, we in slovakia alone will not be able to cope with. i therefore thank all my colleagues, members of the european parliament, who understood the slovak problem as a european problem and voted for increasing financial aid for the jaslovské bohunic uprising.
i am pleased with the outcome of the vote on the financial support for the decommissioning of v1 bohunice. my position is as follows: the v1 bohunice was completely rebuilt in the 1990s under the strict control of an international agency, at a cost of almost eur 300 million, and is therefore a premature decommissioning. the nuclear power plant would be able to safely produce electricity until at least 2015. the 1999 decision was a political matter, dictated not by common sense but by bias. the direct costs amount to more than eur 1.3 billion. fortunately, the plenary agreed to at least 400 million, but that is only one third of the amount needed. the total cost will be €5 billion, including such important components as safe storage of radioactive waste, significant losses in electricity generation and others. in slovakia, nuclear power plants produce about 57% of electricity. a v1 outage means a shortage of about 7 terawatt hours of electricity per year. that's like screwing every other light bulb in the country. thank you all for your support.
mr. chairman, i ask that the vote be taken again, as the majority of those who voted were clearly in favour. you interpreted that as a rejection of the message. i ask that we vote individually.
i would like to comment on the report on the humane trappic standards submitted by mrs scheele. i voted in favour of this report, as did the majority of those present in this house. mr president, i asked you to check the electronic voting because you have concluded from this vote the opposite of the will of the members present and voting. mr. chairman, i'm asking you to correct your mistake.
i'm asking you to do the checking electronically, because we have clearly evaluated voter support for this bill. you refused electronic control of this vote, reconsideration...
mr. chairman, i'm sorry, i don't know how you can interpret the result of the vote in the obvious way. we all saw that the majority of the voters supported this report. since you have a different view of the matter from some of those we have evaluated, i have asked you to have this vote electronically checked. you rejected it and made a conclusion that was not the will of the voters. i'm talking about the report on the humane trappic standards.
i would like to ask very kindly for support for this proposal, which i hope, ladies and gentlemen, will contribute in particular to the government of the slovak republic and the ministry of the interior of the slovak republic reviewing the minister's position on respect for the fundamental values and rights of the european union. the government of the slovak republic demoted the president of the police trade union and unilaterally declared that it no longer recognized the union as a negotiating partner and threatened disciplinary action against any police officer who participated in any protest for the improvement of their living and working conditions. colleagues, mr president borrell, the slovak republic joined the european union in 2004 also because it sees the european union as a guarantor of fundamental rights and values. i therefore ask you to show that we, the members of the european parliament, are really committed to these rights and obligations.
mr president, i strongly oppose putting the issue of the slovakian police on the agenda of this house as it is clearly a matter of the rule of law and democracy. in this case, an employee – who happened to be the union leader of the police force – broke the rules. his superior – who happened to be the minister of the interior – carried out the punishment within slovak law and according to ministers’ rights and obligations to act in order to prevent the destabilisation of the country. i am very proud of slovakia’s achievements over the last seven years under prime minister mikuláš dzurinda, which include a strong democracy, more transparency and the adoption of reforms that currently make us a european economic tiger. yes, there is room for improvement, but the problem in the area at stake here is simply non-existent. therefore, i would kindly ask all my honourable colleagues to vote against this change to the agenda of this house. let us focus our attention and our energy on far more burning issues where we could all be a lot more useful. (applause from the right)
i very much support the efforts of the council and the commission to further liberalise world trade. it is, after all, the key to growth in economic efficiency, competitiveness and the overall growth we so often declare. let entrepreneurs compete in the global marketplace, not bureaucratic barriers. we are not afraid of a drastic reduction in trade barriers, to the extent that our competitors should have greater administrative advantages than they have had so far. ladies and gentlemen, the lack of accurate balance sheets, the effects of religious agreements, but also the signs of the commission's willingness to sacrifice agriculture for other commodities, are worrying european union farmers. i therefore also take this opportunity to recall the need to respect the objective specificities of agricultural commodities, in particular for the benefit of food consumers, who ultimately benefit more than farmers from a stable food market.
i have symbolically adopted, together with my colleagues from the epp-ed group, the political prisoner antonio dia sanchez, who was sentenced to 20 years in prison by the cuban totalitarian regime. i have recently received a letter from mrs gisela sanchez, wife of antonio sanchez, a member of the women in white movement, who will be awarded the andrei sakharov prize at the december meeting in strasbourg. in the letter, she writes about the seriousness of her husband's health condition, who is constantly denied medical care. our efforts should lead to the totalitarian regime in cuba taking action to immediately improve the prison conditions of all political prisoners who are held in conditions that do not meet the minimum standards of the un for the treatment of prisoners. the european commission must continue its policy of constructive engagement through political dialogue with the cuban authorities, accompanied by strengthening contacts with the cuban dissent and with representatives of civil society.
i welcome the debate on this report in the european parliament. it aims to better prevent avian influenza pandemics, reduce health risks and avoid potential loss of life. so far, 68 people have died from avian influenza infection with confirmed transmission from birds. however, a mutation of this virus will pose a risk to humanity if it acquires the ability to spread between humans. this is where the importance of cooperation and coordination between the various states is demonstrated. we know that disease knows no boundaries and respects no borders, especially when it comes to a disease so threatening that the population has no antibodies against it. but cooperation must be not only between individual states but also within the state between departments. everyone is obliged to fulfill their role in the pandemic, whether it is agriculture, health, education or defense. but i have to say that the most important item is population. the public doesn't have quality information in the first phase. that's when the goal-oriented behavior is replaced by panic and chaos. and that's your worst enemy in this situation. the population is most effective when it has information and negative experience -- and it already has in a pandemic. the 1917 spanish flu pandemic, which killed 40 million people, should serve as a warning to all of us. in a recent debate here in the european parliament, commissioner kyprianou misled us by saying that he had 25 national action programmes on the table. it doesn't matter to us if you have 25 programs on your desk. the important thing is that you have one common, quality anti-pandemic plan. the recent worst-case scenario review of the european 25+2 also revealed shortcomings in the communication between the national programmes. on the one hand, many politicians are easing the situation by claiming that it is just a trick of the pharmaceutical companies, on the other hand, the public is informed that the state authorities are already selecting sites for mass graves. all of us health workers are aware that today the health care system in any country is underfunded. this is why many countries limit operations and create waiting lists. i'm afraid that a system that is so financially fragile will not have the resources to respond to a pandemic. so i think the public should be informed so that they can pay for any part of the cost themselves.
for the ppe-de group. discrediting your own country for your own political ends. this is how one can interpret briefly the speech of ms beňová in the context of the proposal to include the situation in the police corps of the slovak republic in the negotiations. political exploitation of union bosses in the police force has nothing to do with protecting working conditions and human rights. their lies, half-truths and concealment of the facts regarding salaries, which were increased two weeks before the said assembly, are intended to manipulate decent police officers, destabilize the police's ability to act, while threatening the right of the population to adequate protection and security. the union bosses' vision of the slovak government's resignation is dangerously dragging the police into a political struggle. the very good results of the police in the fight against organized crime and the successful elimination of corruption in slovakia cannot be called into question by artificial political causes in which trade union bosses also participate. the slogans at the last rally, such as "if the police are not paid by the state, the mafia will gladly do it", already exceed all acceptable principles of independent unions. the right of assembly of the police was in no way restricted or questioned, as exemplified by the upcoming assembly on saturday this week. the european parliament and other eu institutions must not be dragged into these disgusting political games that have been unleashed to discredit the achievements of the ruling coalition in slovakia.
for the pse group. commissioner, your answer did not surprise me but it disappointed me. i will insist that the commission continue to follow this example very closely. i can't comment on what you said because you didn't say anything. please do not take this as an attack on your person, but as an attack on the substance of what the commission has presented. mr hudacký, who is from the slovak republic as i am, spoke of bringing the political struggle to the european parliament. i want to make it very clear that even the vice chairman of the defense and security committee, who is a member of the government coalition of prime minister dzurinda, has very strongly condemned what happened at the ministry of interior. that means it's not an internal political battle. it's just a matter of the european commission saying whether the rights of police officers can be suppressed in slovakia. because a police officer is the same citizen of the european union and the same employee as any other citizen of the european union or employee of the european union. we asked the commission two important questions. these issues are important to us, particularly because they could be in breach of the european convention on human rights and the council of europe's code of policing. we believe that the european commission has a duty to comment on whether the rights of citizens of a member state of the european union are being violated or not. parliament yesterday gave the commission the opportunity to put this question, making it very clear that it does not agree with such practices being carried out in any member state of the european union. i therefore ask you again, commissioner, not to put this question off, but to return to it at the next part-session of parliament and to present the commission's opinion to the members of the european parliament.
we are following with great concern the recent activities of the minister of the interior of the slovak republic, mr. palka. the borders with undermining the basic principles of democracy and civil liberties in slovakia. the minister of the interior has unduly interfered and continues to interfere in the legitimate trade union protest of the slovak police. by dismissing the president of the police trade union and his subsequent demotion to rank of ordinary policeman, he not only interfered with the personal rights of the police representative, but also threatened the constitutionally guaranteed rights of citizens, civil society organisations and trade unions to freely express their opinions. our people's party - hzds sees minister palk's threats against protesting police officers as a blatant display of arrogance of power. ladies and gentlemen, minister palko is a senior member of the political party represented in the european people's party. i therefore recommend that the leadership of this group not bury its head in the sand but examine this matter critically. on behalf of the independent members of the people's party - hzds slovakia, i express my support for the call of the european trade union confederation eurocop to change the administrative-authoritative way of managing police forces in slovakia and we ask for the european commission to examine this matter.
today's discussion of the problem, as well as support for the police protests, is an opposition election campaign and propaganda against the successful ministers of the government of the slovak republic. it is not true that in time of war, the police will be tried like soldiers. it is not true that since 2006 the slovak police will be supervised by the army. it is not true that police officers will be deprived of any rights, court-martialed according to civil codes, and in time of war tried as ordinary citizens. the same regime as in the slovak republic is also applied by the gendarmerie in france and the carabinieri in italy. criminal police cases have long been handled by the military prosecutor's office. the so-called remilitarization of the police is, let me tell you, stupid and demagogic. the majority of the members of your political party voted in favour of such a bill in the slovak parliament and did not support the amendment that sought to change this system.
i don't know if i can talk, because there's a lot of traffic. i justify my vote in favour on the basis of my professional experience in the field of slovak-polish crossborder cooperation within the tatra euroregion. many euroregional initiatives have naturally emerged as bottom-up initiatives. today, the euroregions are associations with legal personality, with established crossborder structures and with the best knowledge of sustainable regional development. they are important instruments of cross-border cooperation, which is essential for european cohesion in accordance with the european framework convention on cross-border cooperation between territorial entities or bodies. the euroregions, given their knowledge of the current problems of border regions, must be involved in the preparation of the 2007-2013 strategies and, in cooperation with the national institutions, must play an increasingly important role in the management of european union programmes. this report is an important initiative of the european parliament, because our support for the euroregions will help to accelerate the achievement of one of the fundamental objectives of the european union - the reduction of regional disparities.
let me express my great pleasure at the award of the andrei sakharov prize for freedom of thought to the cuban women in white movement, which is peacefully seeking to win domestic and international support for a general amnesty in cuba. i myself have been informed in detail about the activities of the mothers and wives of political prisoners by mrs gisela sánchez verdecia, the wife of the cuban prisoner antonio díaz sánchez, whom we have symbolically adopted together with my colleagues, mr pedro szczesny and mr milan gal. this heroic woman fights for her husband, who is sentenced to twenty years in prison and is in critical condition due to inhuman treatment. i express my deep solidarity with a group of cuban women in their courageous struggle for the release of all political prisoners. i hope that the sakharov prize will not be the only means by which the european parliament will draw attention to the lack of respect for the declaration of human rights in cuba. i call on the european parliament to continue its efforts to bring democracy back to cuba as soon as possible.
the primary objective of this directive is to minimise the negative impact of batteries and waste batteries and thus to contribute to the protection and improvement of the quality of the environment. allow me to thank the rapporteur for opening this question and for the report. the directive should primarily aim at stimulating and developing research in this field and finding suitable substitutes, rather than restricting the prohibition of batteries containing dangerous substances such as lead, nickel, cadmium or zinc. we should base our decisions on scientific evidence and consider the implications of our decisions before we make them. it's not wise to restrict ourselves to a single data point, which is weight, and ignore battery usage. we need to know which is more risky: whether to use a high-risk battery or to take that battery out of circulation. as a graphic example, i will mention the use of batteries in aircraft safety lighting or in elevator safety systems, which would be prohibited under current proposals. we should focus our attention on perfectly collecting used batteries and better communicating with the public than we have been doing so far. the commission has also found that the commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market is based on the following considerations: this is the best way to help protect the environment, so that the public knows that batteries are not just waste. finally, let me also comment on the question of the legal basis. of course, environmental protection is necessary, but article 175 as the sole legal basis can cause unfair competition by applying different legal standards in different member states. i believe that the dual legal basis combines both objectives: environmental protection and the free and unhindered movement of goods.
it is well known that the basic problem of the current economic situation in the european union is its low competitiveness compared to developed countries such as the united states. the level of tax competition also plays an important role in this state of the european economy, which is currently most markedly reflected in the low economic growth of the old, especially some large countries, and the relatively high growth in most of the new member states, which are coming with radical structural reforms, not excluding taxation. political reluctance to implement structural reforms is often masked by the accusation of tax dumping by the new member states and thus by the need to address this disparity through the harmonisation of direct taxes. these efforts also result in the following considerations concerning the harmonisation of corporate income tax bases. the arguments that the harmonisation of tax bases will not affect the tax rate in any way and therefore will not have a direct impact on tax competition are not entirely correct. the tax base and the rate form a linked vessel to a certain extent. it depends on the broad tax base to be established for harmonisation, the scope of the exemptions and the deductible items. for example, if the current german model were to be used, slovakia would be forced to increase its tax rate in the current situation if it wanted to maintain its previous tax revenue. on the other hand, i understand the arguments that by harmonising tax bases we could achieve greater transparency between the different systems in the european union, thus creating a space for easier comparison of tax bases in different countries. the reduction of transaction costs for firms or the reduction of litigation could also be a significant benefit. i trust, commissioner, that the european commission will give careful consideration to all these arguments when proposing the harmonisation of tax bases, with a view to maintaining a sufficient level of tax competition between member states as one of the necessary conditions for increasing the overall competitiveness of the european union.
the figures for the 2006 budget, as proposed by parliament, speak volumes when evaluated without emotion. the share of commitments and potential expenditure in gross national product is more than 9%. that's a good springboard for negotiating a long-term financial outlook. the increase in payments compared to 2005 is almost 6%, which is significantly higher than the annual increase in budgetary resources in many eu member states. if inflation and economic growth in the european union are forecast to be around 2% in 2006, it is clear that the proposed budget is also justified from a macroeconomic point of view. the problem we are facing in this budget period is that there is too wide a gap between commitments and payments. this gap, again amounting to almost eur 10 billion, reduces the flexibility and effectiveness of the budgetary instrument of the european union. i therefore continue to regard as key the issues of the efficient use of budgetary resources, the streamlining of the mechanisms for accessing funding under the structural funds and the cohesion fund and the substantial reduction of the excessively wide cushion between available and actually used resources. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleagues and the rapporteurs on the committee on budgets for their work. the outcome of their work also gives hope for the long-term budgetary outlook.
the report by mr alvar is particularly important at a time when the population of europe lives in daily fear of terrorist attacks. terrorist attacks in london and madrid have caused great fear among the public, as they have hit civilian objects and unsuspecting citizens on their way to work, school, and hospital. on the one hand, the citizen is threatened by terrorists who fight against the government in this way. but on the other hand, the government is going to re-use the citizen to fight terrorism, or it's going to interfere with his right to privacy. there is no way that citizens can be watched, as perhaps big brother tv shows prepare us for. citizens elect their government to relieve them of the daily decision-making on public affairs. but the government has no right to use a citizen's privacy as a public thing. that is why i think the report as such should be changed and put more emphasis on the obligations of the state in the context of the implementation of the european convention on human rights, its article 8, which speaks of the right to privacy, so that no part of the proposed directive is in conflict with that convention.
commissioner, you have very correctly characterised the illegal activity in the black market in antiviral drugs and medicines in general. this activity can take the following forms: firstly, the purchase and subsequent sale of antiviral drugs on the black market at intolerably high, several times higher prices; secondly, the sale of fake medicines without effect on influenza disease - medicines with so-called placebo effect, and then the production of generic influenza medicines with a low guaranteed effect against the common influenza, as well as the trade in precursors. thank you for your answer, for your interest, and i believe that what you have said will contribute to making this black market smaller and smaller and controlled and eventually disappear completely.
this own-initiative report is the first ever to deal with consumer protection in the new member states. as the member representing slovakia, i would like to thank the rapporteur for a good, consistent report and for his cooperation. on the basis of this report, i would like to highlight the satisfactory results achieved by the new member states in the transposition of community legislation and its effective application in practice. an example is the rapid implementation of the directive on certain aspects of the sale of consumer goods and associated guarantees, under which traders guarantee a fixed minimum two-year guarantee on goods to consumers in new member states as soon as they join the european union. to my surprise, for example, traders in belgium and france do not guarantee a two-year guarantee period and consumers are not informed of their rights. this situation is due to the significant delay in the implementation of this directive in certain eu-15 countries, some of which implemented it only following a ruling by the european court of justice and which to date is not known to traders or consumers. a key point of this report is the emphasis on the funding of consumer organisations. despite the lack of funds, consumer organisations in the new member states, mainly through volunteers, are making a significant effort to improve consumer culture. they make a significant contribution to the education of young people already in school and encourage them to form consumer habits. for example, a european diary is a great activity to help young europeans understand their consumer rights and obligations. i am convinced that only high-quality professional organisations dedicated to the protection of consumer rights, supported by adequate financial coverage, will be able to participate in the creation of a european consumer culture without borders.
the reporter. the issue of state aid has long been a focus of interest in the european union, as the diversity of approaches and options available in the individual member states of the union has provided considerable scope for unfair competition, favouring firms and, consequently, unbalanced influence on economic development in the regions as well as in the member states of the european union. the uncoordinated state aid thus undermined the community's fundamental objectives, including those relating to cohesion. it was therefore a matter of course that the union started to regulate state aid and, in the context of experience, the community institutions are increasingly seeking to optimise a unitary approach in this area. when i had the opportunity to draw up the report of the european parliament on the commission's proposal for a guideline on the granting of state aid as an instrument for regional development, i took it as a challenge to contribute to improving the functioning of the community in this area, an area which is of general interest not only because it provides a significant injection of funds for private companies but also because it involves the use of taxpayers' money for so-called private purposes, with obvious public effects. the long process of negotiations between the commission, the council and parliament and other interested bodies, which eventually lasted one year, despite the fact that the scope of the problem is not enormous, confirmed the complexity of balancing regulation in this area. i must say that the commission, on the basis of its second informal proposal and the negotiations mentioned, came up with a well-designed proposal in july of this year, which has become the basis for my present report. in general, i can say that i welcomed the philosophy adopted by the commission to implement the conclusions of the barcelona and gothenburg european councils on reducing the level of state aid and limiting it to matters of common interest, including economic and social cohesion, i.e. the philosophy of providing less but better targeted state aid. i have come to believe that it is in the commission's interest, taking into account the objectives of the lisbon strategy, to support the achievement of the cohesion objectives. i believe that state aid and structural fund programmes are two complementary eu instruments for achieving cohesion. i therefore also think it is extremely important to support the commission's proposals, which, in the process of converging to the eu standard, direct state aid to regions mainly in the new member states. it is, however, illusory to think that state aid regulation for the purposes of fair competition can be objective if it does not take into account all aspects of achieving cohesion. my original draft report sought to highlight this approach, including the fair distribution of state aid across the eu, and not neglecting any region or subregion that needs state aid to achieve cohesion. my aim was to support proposals that make the commission's guidelines on state aid for regional development a real instrument for promoting regional development. i was very happy to accept all the amendments in this direction during the approval process, and i therefore supported the idea of classifying statistical regions under article 83 and of providing the relevant state aid to all regions with natural handicaps or disadvantages such that they are not able to start development themselves, or for various reasons fall into the category of poor areas, or proposals limiting disruptive relocation of enterprises receiving state aid, and others. however, i was also pleased to add proposals that required the criteria for determining eligibility for state aid to be defined as precisely as possible for each region and company, and i expect the commission to carefully assess the negative consequences of inadequately granted aid and draw the appropriate conclusions. in my report, i also consistently supported the idea of taking into account the regional dimension in the horizontal guidelines for the granting of state aid. however, all the well-intentioned proposals of the commission to guide the granting of state aid, as well as the recommendations of the european parliament to it, will not be able to be effectively implemented without the simplification of procedures, which the commission also proposes to a large extent, but also without a thorough transparency of the granting of state aid, whether at national or european level, including the integration of state aid for regional development into the national reference framework. recommendations to integrate regional authorities into state aid distribution processes, the publication of all state aid cases on the internet, and publicly accessible evaluations of the application of state aid instruments for regional development by the commission will certainly contribute to this. madam president, i have to say that the final text of my report looks a little different from what i had imagined, but as i have abandoned my ideas of an objective evaluation of the commission's proposals, so have many of the colleagues who took part in the final formulation of the text. it is possible that some of the recommendations go beyond the scope of applicability in terms of the principles laid down by the commission, but i trust that the commission will evaluate the well-intentioned recommendations of the parliament. mr president, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the poor and underdeveloped regions are following our guidelines with the hope that they will really contribute effectively to development and will thus be able to conclude with all of us who are concerned with the successful succession of the european union without distinction that community instruments are the right means to ensure the well-being of all union citizens.
five minutes to 12:00, both symbolically and in fact. the key point of the discussion of direct state aid as a regional development instrument is the risk of applying the uk proposal to reduce financial assistance for new members from the european union's structural funds for the period 2007-2013. this proposed aid reduction increases the risk of state aid effects in the new member states, which often simply do not have the financial resources to do so. if we had, we would have a completely different approach to state aid, to the problem of regional backwardness and cohesion. moreover, this whole schizophrenia thing lacks in-depth analyses and demonstrable impact studies of the effect of the decisions being made. ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution by the regi committee and by mr koterz is a good one, but i would remind you that its purpose is entirely to avoid spending aid on the new member states.
i could not express my support for this report in the vote because i believe that the european parliament cannot agree to the collection of personal data on every citizen. databases don't just have to follow a general sample of people, but they can also search for politically or otherwise dissenting voices. every totalitarian regime in the history of the world started by collecting personal data about all the citizens of that country. i, too, grew up in a 40-year totalitarian regime, where the communist government collected my private data and my phone records. today's data transmission technology is still not sufficiently secure, and so the good intention of fighting terrorism, crime or money laundering can easily be abused. i could never make a reasonable statement to the public if i voted for this bill.
the romanian government is systematically working to implement the requirements of the european union and the european parliament. nevertheless, in many areas, it still has a great deal of work to do. the resolution we are debating is critical but fair. i would like to draw your attention to the importance of the following amendments adopted by the committee on foreign affairs. the minority bill in the romanian government program has been put in a precarious position. the delaying tactics of the romanian ruling parties are unacceptable and bucharest should be given a stern warning. another important issue is the provision of university education for citizens belonging to minorities in their mother tongue, especially in view of the unsatisfactory situation of the more than 1.5 million indigenous hungarian community in this area. i would stress that the concrete implementation of the principle of subsidiarity and selfgovernment, including the creation of some forms of autonomy, is an indisputable means of protecting minorities and ensuring their legal security. ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to amend article 26. the draft report deals with the restitution of property, but the issue of the restitution of church property is still unresolved. in the field of environmental protection, romania needs reforms and a number of new legislation. i would again like to make a critical point about the mining plan for the verespatak gold mine, which must be resolved by taking into account the views of the relevant ngos and the countries concerned, such as slovakia and hungary. finally, it is very important to state clearly the possibility of enforcing the protection clause. compliance with the requirements listed here means that the copenhagen criteria are met. as with all candidate countries, romania will only be able to obtain the necessary authorisation for accession on the basis of actual results.
the reporter. before we go to the vote, i would like to make two more or less technical amendments. in paragraph 3 of my report, i would like to delete the word 'three' in the words 'within all three categories of article 87 (3) (a) ' - that is, the end of the first line of paragraph 3 and the beginning of the second line - so that the text would then be 'within all three categories of article 87 (3) (a) ' - so that the word 'three' would be deleted. i would also like to have an amendment of a more or less technical nature to paragraph 31 which i will probably be doing when we vote on that paragraph.
the reporter. i would like to change the words "too brutal" or "too brutal" in the last line or sentence of this paragraph to "very significant" or "very significant". so, the aim is to change the wording from "too brutal" to "very significant".
i justify my vote in favour by the fact that this report has improved the commission's proposal, while eliminating any discrimination and ensuring equal rights for all citizens when travelling by air. this regulation is the first specific legislation to address the transport of persons with reduced mobility who are disadvantaged, whether due to disability, age or otherwise. i appreciate that the single market in air services will serve all citizens equally and ensure that air travel is not denied because of reduced passenger mobility. the adoption of the report is a positive signal from the european parliament to disabled citizens and i am sure it will be a nice christmas present for them.
i voted in favour of this report because i consider it very important for all the regions which are not able to start their development without financial support. i myself live in one of the poorest regions in europe - the prešov region, where gdp is less than half the european average. i therefore welcome the fact that the promotion of growth and job creation must be the primary objective of state aid. from the cohesion perspective, it is very important to adopt transparent criteria so that all disadvantaged regions receive the money. the inclusion of regional authorities in the state aid distribution process is a very positive step, as they guarantee the transparency of state aid allocation. in the context of this report, i wish to express my doubts about the uk's draft financial perspective, which does not respect one of the eu's fundamental objectives - the reduction of regional disparities.
