respected colleagues, climate change is certainly the biggest and most serious global challenge today. they are a challenge that transcends the national boundaries drawn by nations and politicians in the past. today, when we try to prevent or at least mitigate climate change, we need to rethink our accepted thought patterns of national boundaries. if we are to tackle climate change successfully, we must be clear that we are all responsible for it. in this context, we can speak of a multi-layered political responsibility. first, the responsibility of each individual country to contribute to the collective environmental burden, and second, the responsibility that is actually solidarity between the developed and underdeveloped regions of the world. perhaps most important is intergenerational responsibility, as the consequences of climate change will be long-term and will affect the lives of many generations. the challenge for eu politicians and countries is to remain protagonists in this global process. we must take the implementation of the kyoto protocol more seriously and do everything we can to ensure that it is also respected by other non-european countries which have not yet committed themselves to its implementation but have a relatively large impact on the environment of global significance. the european union needs to take a leading role in tackling climate change, and this is mainly for two reasons. it has valuable experience in environmental policies and is also making a serious effort in scientific research, the results of which should help to reduce the burden on the environment. i therefore expect a clear eu demand for high environmental standards also after kyoto. with this stance, the union will continue to enhance its standing among european citizens and in the world public.
by supporting this truly excellent report, the european parliament has, firstly, a great opportunity and, secondly, a great responsibility to call on our fellow european citizens to support the european constitutional treaty from this place. our message to the citizens of europe, whom we represent here, is that the adoption of the european constitution is indeed an extraordinary step forward in the development of our common european home, that it is in fact a precondition for its all-round progress. it is a step from european diplomacy to european democracy. if, unfortunately, for these or other reasons, the treaty were not ratified, europe would not only be standing still, but would be taking a serious and dangerous step backwards. it would jeopardise our aspiration for a future that is not only peaceful but also economic and social progress, that is to say, a democratic europe that remains an active and influential member of international politics. today, therefore, we have the opportunity to send this encouraging message about the irreplaceable importance of the european constitution for a more democratic, more successful and more united community of citizens and states, which for the first time in history has brought together almost half a billion people in a peaceful way and which also has a place for small nations, such as my own, the slovenian, to develop their identity and, in conditions of diversity, join forces with others to create together our goals, on which we want to build this european future together.
the institutions of brussels are far away for the people. they see them as power centers, with no say in their decisions. the constitutional treaty is not a panacea for all the european union's problems, but it is an opportunity to reduce the democratic deficit and to accelerate europe's development. why would you do that? whereas it replaces a number of treaties and amendments, thereby reducing the opacity of the key documents of the european union; whereas it brings together in a single document the key constitutional and legal bases and policies of the european union; whereas it provides the basis for a more efficient functioning of the european institutions; whereas it contributes to the implementation of the lisbon strategy; whereas it removes the obstacles that would arise if the existing treaties were to continue to apply. the constitutional treaty is a compromise that no one is entirely happy with, but it is, nevertheless, the best we could do in the convention. we need a constitutional treaty, otherwise we cannot expect effective reforms or the effective functioning of an enlarged europe. although the policy chapter is often criticised, as rapporteur in the shadow, i should like to express my satisfaction that very concrete commitments have been set for the commission and the governments of the member states in the field of social policy and employment, and that the establishment of a social protection committee and a european social fund are also envisaged. by adopting the report on the constitutional treaty, the european parliament is sending a clear signal to the european public that the time has come to set out the constitutional and legal bases in a transparent and comprehensive manner, thus ensuring that europe becomes a continent of peace, prosperity, solidarity and security. let me conclude by saying that the slovenian parliament will ratify the constitutional treaty later this month. i'm sure most of them do.
respected. the european union's old uniform has become too small and inadequate in the larger context of the new times. it is therefore right that the new constitution should replace the treaties now in force, thus allowing the european union to function more effectively. the role of the european and national parliaments will also be strengthened, and thus the voice of the citizens of the european union. as a member of the committee on culture, education, youth and sport, i particularly support those articles of the constitution which relate to these areas. i think it is important that in the preamble it already emphasises the importance of europe's cultural heritage, europe's religious and humanistic heritage and the values that define europe and its citizens as such in their very essence. the respect of the rich cultural and linguistic diversity and the concern to protect and develop europe's cultural heritage are also among the main objectives. the constitution guarantees freedom of the arts and sciences and the right to education and training, equality between men and women and the right of persons with disabilities to participate in the life of the community. article 92 guarantees the safety of young people at work, and article 93 provides that the family enjoys legal, economic and social protection. the articles in the constitution are a good basis for their implementation, but the european union has to do much more than adopt and ratify a constitution. first, it must create the conditions for the family to be recognised as a value and for young couples to have the opportunity to create and maintain a family. if we solve demographic problems primarily through immigration, then our cultural heritage, european languages, culture, religion, the european union and european civilization in general - in short, everything that is our values and that we want to preserve and strengthen with the constitution - is at risk. having decided to join the community in the twenty-five member states, it is also right that we should do everything we can to ensure that it functions as well and as efficiently as possible.
when a job is terminated, for whatever reason, it is always about the person and his existence, and usually also about the existence of his family. so we cannot remain indifferent to it, whatever the reasons for such a decision. in the case of my dismissal as a language teacher by the commission, i received very different information, so it was difficult for me to decide who was actually right. however, i believe that the status of the dismissed teachers should be regulated, particularly because they had contracts of indefinite duration and also in view of their previous work, as some of them had worked for the commission for more than 20 years. finally, we in the european union are striving for the lawful conduct of all our institutions, and both the commission and the european parliament must be examples of such conduct. the new constitution, which most of us support, also provides in article 90 that 'every worker shall have the right to protection against unjustified dismissal in accordance with union and national law. "i would certainly suggest that the case of the 43 teachers be reviewed and appropriate solutions be found for them, also because of their past work. the number of members has increased with enlargement, so i do not believe that they are suddenly no longer needed. i also understand that the commission is behaving economically and rationally, but not at the expense of breaking the law. given that the contracts were concluded on the basis of the tristano agreement, appropriate solutions for them would certainly be found in such a framework.
mr president, there has been a recent resurgence of certain contradictions and divisions of the past, which we hoped would never happen again, and which are weighing on the relations between the peoples of a united europe. by designating february 10 as the day of remembrance of the tragic events that took place at the end of the second world war, the italian republic is remembering, and rightly so, its fellow citizens who suffered. at the same time, democratic italy must not forget the suffering inflicted by the fascist regime on other peoples, including the slovenian. i would like to take this opportunity to join the call of the democratic public on both sides of the border to overcome these traumas of a half-past history by telling the whole truth. the truth, as sad as it is, is the only way to prevent similar things from happening in the future. it is also the only basis for coexistence and reconciliation. if the reconciliation meeting of the presidents of the three neighbouring countries will help to achieve this, i welcome it. overcoming the resurgence of nationalist prejudices is at the heart of the european idea. it is also one of the foundations, the essence of european integration and unification.
thank you, mr president! in a letter to mr barros, mr cashman, together with several other members, pointed out, quote, '...that there is a clear public policy in slovenia to encourage discrimination against minorities...' end quote, and suggested that the commission should launch an investigation into this together with the slovenian government. as a liberal member from slovenia, i would also like to remind the parliament that the current slovenian government also expressly rejects the implementation of the decision of the constitutional court of slovenia, which requires the return of the domiciles in slovenia of 18,305 citizens of the former yugoslavia, who were illegally deprived of them in 1992. this is not only discrimination against minorities, but also a violation of the fundamental principles of the rule of law.
thank you very much, mr. president. the commission has drawn up a large and ambitious programme. it has set priorities which i agree with and support. i am also delighted with the ambition, energy and, of course, enthusiasm of the president of the commission. but if we want europe to be effective, if we want to bring europe closer to its citizens, if we want to achieve our goals, then we ourselves must be much more effective than we have been. an important part of the european union's effectiveness is its administrative systems, its public administration. in your strategic objectives on page four, mr. president, you mention them. i'm very pleased to hear that. but at the same time, i remember that the prodi commission started the reform of public administration in the european union. it was the responsibility of the previous commissioner kinnock. i do not know how the whole thing ended, if it ever began, but the fact is that the citizens of the european union see it as a big bureaucratic machine, far removed from the people, a machine that costs a lot and requires an enormous amount of administration for every little thing, let alone for major projects. so we all, not just us in the european parliament but our voters, rightly expect that the new commission, within the framework of the priorities you have set, will also find the energy, the time and the will to deal with its own administrative system, its own bureaucracy. i expect very clear answers in that regard. and that too! good legislation is good, but more importantly, we implement that good legislation. thank you so much!
president of the commission. mr president, i think that was a very interesting debate on issues which are important for our common future. your speeches, ladies and gentlemen, confirm the richness of the debate and the diversity of views on globalisation. i would like to stress here a point which i think i also heard in mr désir's speech, and which has to do with a certain convergence which is nevertheless becoming apparent, namely in the face of globalisation. at first, there seemed to be two extreme positions: one that consisted of seeing globalization only in its negative aspects, and the other, which was initially expressed in porto alegre, that would be a kind of frontal refusal of globalization. what we're seeing today, what we can see, is that we see in the davos forum some effort of corporate social responsibility, some increasingly clear emphasis on an agenda for government or global governance and we also see the concern to incorporate some of the concerns that have been expressed by so many non-governmental organizations and by so many protagonists of the movement that initially even considered itself an anti-globalization movement. many of those who were initially in the anti-globalization movement realized early on that globalization is inevitable. the globalization that we have in the world today is not the decision of any one country or any group of countries. nor is it a conspiracy by a group of companies. the globalization that we have in the world today has a lot more to do with the trends in international trade and especially with the technological revolution, which no government really controls. so instead of just protesting against globalization, many of these actors and protagonists have decided, in my view, well, to look for another form of globalization, to try to bring some of their priorities into globalization. and that's where we are. i welcome this, because i think we can learn from davos and we can also learn from porto alegre, although there are proposals here and there which do not deserve much credibility. but there are lessons to be learned from both processes. what can i say about europe and the european commission? i think we need to work on concrete terms. internally and externally. internally, are we in favour of cohesion or not? i am in favour of cohesion, the commission is in favour of economic, social and territorial cohesion, and so what i am doing here is appealing to members to help me and to help the commission so that all the governments of the european union are also in favour of cohesion and are ready to give some help, for example, to the financial perspectives we are discussing, because there is also poverty in europe. it's not just poverty in the southern hemisphere. we now have in europe - and especially in europe after enlargement - even greater disparities than we had before. we need more advanced programmes here in europe to combat social exclusion. so if we want to have a coherent discourse on cohesion we must also start by seeking to achieve cohesion here in europe, economic, social and territorial cohesion. it is part of a spirit of speed that is essential for the union. then there 's the outside: what can the european commission and the european union do externally? and there are two areas which i think should not be seen as antagonistic or contradictory, namely the field of international trade and the field of development aid. i have heard some remarks against international trade because, in a way, international trade would be the translation of the neoliberal model. let me say again that in my contacts with the leaders of the developing countries the first demand they make, in practically all of them, is of a commercial nature. they want greater access to the markets of the more developed countries. we must therefore also help these countries in the field of trade. so we cannot say that there is an insurmountable contradiction between trade and aid, between trade and aid. it is clear to me that we can and must do more for the developing countries on both fronts. now we can also demand more from them because when the european union and the member states of the european union give important aid (because we do) - the european union is the world's leading donor of development aid - it also has the right to demand good governance from those countries and we want to know whether the money that is given to them is being used correctly and honestly and whether, in fact, they are also making the reforms in those countries that are necessary for their better integration into international trade. it is also a shared responsibility. i say to you that the european commission wants to go further, we want to make a more ambitious contribution to the achievement of the millennium goals. now, of course, our limitations are just the limitations of the available resources. that is why we intend to continue to work with the member states and this parliament to have a more ambitious development aid agenda, in particular by placing africa clearly as the priority, because africa has structural problems that other regions have already partly overcome, in particular thanks to their better integration into international trade. i would like to assure you that i and this commission are willing to take a more voluntary approach, to be more committed to the objectives of a global world, but a fairer global world in which the european union must play a leading role, also in favour of a more responsible governance of our planet's resources, but also in favour of a fairer society at the global level. those are our values, and we're willing to fight for them.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few comments on behalf of the commission on both reports. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. there are important links between the two reports and the two initiatives. the first concerns the quality of criminal justice and the harmonization of criminal legislation; the second, by mr di pietro, concerns a proposal on the exchange of information from judicial records. it is my personal conviction, and that of the commission as a whole, that the quality of justice is a fundamental element of the great project - now enshrined in the european constitution - of creating a genuine european area of justice and freedom. it is clear that the quality of justice is based on the principle that a europe in which internal frontiers disappear must ensure that the decisions of its judges are first and foremost executed quickly and simply, because the response that citizens expect is based on the credibility of the judicial systems. this principle obviously presupposes another, namely what the insiders call 'mutual recognition': a decision of a court of a given member state may and must be recognised by the law of another member state. this is the essential prerequisite for the creation of a european area of justice. but for this principle of mutual recognition to be implemented, a high level of mutual trust is required: there can be no mutual recognition in the absence of mutual trust between the magistrates, courts and systems of the member states of the union. that is why the programme which the european commission is working on contains a specific reference, as requested by the european council, to the quality of justice, which is expressed in decisions which are executed quickly and easily and which implies a high level of mutual trust between the legal systems and the judiciary. the rapporteur, mr costa, proposes the creation of a european system for assessing the quality of justice, a system based on a charter on the quality of criminal justice. i think this is an interesting idea, because we know that in other areas - less sensitive than this - a mechanism of parallel evaluation and monitoring of the results of an activity has worked, contributing to the establishment of the principle of mutual trust. that is why the rapporteur's proposal is so interesting. the commission is also convinced that in such a sensitive matter, which also falls within the competence of the member states, it is necessary to carry out a wide-ranging concertation and, above all, to listen to the parties concerned. the commission is working and will work in both directions, first of all by listening to the categories concerned, namely the judiciaries, the associations and bodies representing the judiciary in the member states. we intend to present a first communication on judicial training, i.e. the training of judges, by 2005 and then a communication on the evaluation of the quality of justice in 2006. we therefore intend to follow the lines suggested in mr costa's report. my final reflection on this subject is that no mechanism for assessing the quality of justice can, directly or indirectly, affect and adversely affect the independence of the judiciary. it would be extremely negative if the principle of assessing the quality of justice - which is a service to the citizen - were to indirectly affect the independence of the judiciary, which is an essential prerequisite for the provision of a quality service to the citizen. a judiciary that is not independent cannot be of quality. that is why we shall move in the spirit of pursuing a high quality of justice, but keeping firmly to the above premise: respect for the independence of judicial systems and bodies of the judiciary. as regards mr di pietro's report, mutual trust is obviously one of the basic elements, as i have already said, for the quality of justice and for the proper functioning of mutual recognition of decisions and acts. it is therefore clear that the proposal for a decision on the exchange of information extracted from the criminal records - this is a commission proposal from last october - is a good example, in my view, of the real importance of applying the principle of mutual trust. you all remember the fournier affair, the tragic case of paedophilia which helped to accelerate the european reaction: the case had shown the malfunctioning of the exchange of information between member states on the criminal records of individuals. we need to act decisively. i am convinced that the text under consideration, on which mr di pietro has spoken and will speak, is only a first step. it's an emergency first step, short-term. the commission is obviously considering a further step towards a faster computerised system for exchanges, in full compliance of course with the rules on the protection of personal data. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is clear, however, that we must ensure that the criminal records of the member state of nationality of the person concerned are kept as well as possible, so that, in the event of a request for information, the criminal records of the member state of nationality can provide all the necessary answers on the situation without delay. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should be able to give its opinion on the case before it. as you know, we have adopted a white paper which makes proposals for a somewhat more effective mechanism for exchanging information. we shall hear the answers to the questions which are formulated in the white paper. in conclusion, the commission will work very closely with this parliament because the subject of information exchange must strike a proper balance between security considerations, the protection of the right of citizens to be safe, and the fundamental rights of citizens. i would like to refer again to the protection of personal data, because such a balance will have to be discussed in great depth in this parliament.
thank you very much, mr. president. in the political documents of the european people's party, such as the congress documents and other documents of our group in the european parliament, we emphasise the importance of the safety of people and their property; last but not least, we have promised this to the voters. on the other hand, we are faced with an increase in increasingly serious forms of crime and terrorist acts. it is clear that each member state of the european union can no longer provide its own security. cooperation and joint action are needed, and all those activities that increase our security must be sought and accelerated. in this respect, my group supports the proposal for a council decision on the exchange of information extracted from criminal records, as well as the report by the rapporteur, mr di pietra. however, it is somewhat surprising that the commission intends to set up a new computerised data exchange system only between 2008 and 2010. i feel that the exchange of data is a political rather than a technical issue, because if there is a real political will, then the commission should speed up the construction of an appropriate information system, because it is clear to everyone that we are in the information age and that the construction of an appropriate information system cannot be such a complicated issue. obviously, there are other, more difficult issues, such as trust issues or the quality of the individual branches of government. in this context, we suggest that the commission should nevertheless speed up the construction of the information system. - thank you. - thank you.
- thank you. - thank you. in view of the far-reaching provisions of the constitutional treaty for europe on the approximation of national laws in the field of criminal, substantive and procedural law, we conclude that the plan for a single area of criminal justice is becoming increasingly clear. the provision in the constitutional treaty is the result of legislative developments after 1990, not its inception, and is based in particular on the principle of mutual trust. the latter must be based on certain comparable minimum criteria in the light of the different constitutional arrangements and criminal law traditions. we support this approach, but it is also the duty of parliamentarians to keep a close eye on the methods of approximating legislation, especially in view of the need to strengthen the protection of fundamental human rights. if we were not careful to strike a balance between these two elements, criminal law would be effectively unified, but not necessarily democratically legitimated. and criminal law is also a testament to the quality of democracy. - thank you. - thank you.
i welcome the proposal that new member states of the european union will also be able to apply for the european capital of culture event from 2009 onwards. in my home country of slovenia, we celebrate a cultural holiday every year on february 8, which is also a national holiday. on this day, museum and gallery exhibitions are free of charge, and numerous cultural events take place during the days surrounding the holiday. however, there are also people among us who believe that culture is simply something superfluous and unnecessary because it does not directly generate money. but at least during the holidays we are more intensely engaged with the meaning and value of culture and attend events that we would not otherwise take the time to attend. and it is precisely because of the preservation of its cultural heritage and language that the two million strong slovenian nation has survived all the whirlpools of world wars and the striving of neighboring nations to erase it from the european national map. in a europe of cultural and ethnic diversity, it is even more important to build bridges between us. preserving our culture and enjoying the diversity and richness of other nations must be and remain our guiding principle, for culture is the most unbreakable link between peoples who want to live in peace and cooperation with one another. the european capital of culture is the place to connect us. at the same time, it also provides an opportunity for the host country to invest more in cultural facilities and projects with long-term positive effects.
thank you, madam president! as the european parliament, in its frédérique ries report, sets out the measures to be taken to implement the programme of the common environmental and health policy for the period 2004-10, we are aware that these are areas in which the european union can become a world leader. after all, it is not just a free trade area, it is a political, economic and social project. the fight against social exclusion is one of its key elements. environmental and health policy, however, has been given new frameworks by enlargement. the european union of 25 is experiencing an increase in regional and social disparities, which has a direct impact on the quality of health of its population. contrary to expectations, 55 million people live in poverty. the most vulnerable groups are older people living alone, single mothers and the unemployed. the profiles of these groups, because of their exclusion and therefore also from a health point of view, show clearly how societies have developed, how production methods have changed and how economies operate. the new members are not a homogeneous whole, but certain indicators are similar because they result from similar conditions in the transition period. the gap between old and new members is particularly wide in the amount of money they invest in health care. i hope that with a common strategy, we will eventually be able to reverse the negative trends that are currently showing. public health is as much a cross-sectoral issue as the environment. less development means less health. timely investments in health reduce the cost to the economy as a whole.
on behalf of the group. commissioner, the luxembourg presidency, colleagues and colleagues! moldova is the eu's least developed neighbour, which is beset by a host of other problems and burdens, in addition to its severe underdevelopment. not only is it the least developed country in europe, but the country itself does not control the entirety of its territory. its rail system is severed. there are foreign military units on her territory against her will. there, we find all, even the worst, forms of international crime, including the trafficking of arms, drugs, and people. the country has real problems, but people can and must live and survive in desperate economic conditions. more than half the population must and can survive on two dollars a day, and a fifth live on less than one dollar a day. if this isn't a miracle, then there are no miracles in the world. it's really hard for them. we must and do stand in solidarity with them. we all have hope, in the hope of democratic and economic change. on 6 march, moldova will hold elections, the outcome of which could accelerate our cooperation and closer ties with the european union. romania is becoming a member of the european union, major changes have already taken place in ukraine and we wish them to succeed in their endeavours and to make the wheel of development and democracy in moldova turn faster. i had hoped and wished that the ukrainian president would also encourage our moldovan friends in his speech today, because their example has shown and proved that outside interference does not help and cannot stop history. we wish them success and new and better opportunities for advancement and look forward to working with them after the election.
good evening to you all. night work certainly does not have a positive effect on our health. our efficiency and performance at work also depend on how we feel at work and how our health is taken care of. it is important that laws and regulations are taken care of by the legislator, safety measures by the employer, and compliance with measures by the employee himself, who must also be aware of his responsibilities. i would like to draw particular attention to the increased protection of pregnant women at work, since a double life is at stake in the event of pregnancy. more attention should also be paid to safety and health awareness-raising and education, both at the primary level of education and in vocational and higher education. rules cannot be effective if we do not know them or are not willing to follow them. the report frequently mentions the new member states, saying that we have poor safety and health standards for workers. in slovenia, we have very strict regulations on health protection at the workplace, and compulsory education is also required. those employers who are aware of the usefulness of the regulations also strictly comply with them. unfortunately, it often comes down to formal compliance and the quick profits of the educational program operators. but enforcement is also needed for the benefit of employees and also for the benefit of employers, as saving money at the expense of workers' health is often more expensive than investing in safety, education and awareness.
social security is a value which we are committed to in the member states of the european union. this is especially important for those who are helpless because of disability, illness, or old age. as mobility within the countries of the european union increases, so does the number of problems that need to be solved in the most non-discriminatory way possible. this requires the harmonisation of social security systems within the member states of the european union to treat all cases equally. i support the rapporteur's proposal and will vote in favour of the report. in the circumstances, it is more useful to support the amendments to regulation no 1408 and, in this context, to annex 2a, than to continue with the deadlocked negotiations, since the council reached a common position after lengthy negotiations. time will tell which cases cannot be listed in the annexes, so i suggest that such cases be dealt with individually, fairly and in the best interests of the individual. i am pleased that the council has adopted parliament's proposal for a mobility allowance to cover the transport costs of disabled persons, which is intended exclusively to provide special protection for disabled persons. i also welcome the oral amendments adopted by parliament to the effect that member states should take measures to ensure that the disadvantages for those who will be most affected by the regulation are mitigated.
member of the commission. the european union needs a properly functioning civil service, which is able to cope with the increased number of challenges and expectations. in fact, the commission has gone through a long process of change during the past five years. upon taking office, the prodi commission embarked on a comprehensive programme of administrative reform with the adoption of the white paper on 1 march 2000 and the implementation of the timetable/action plan. the administrative reform is both a reform of structure and of mentality. europe’s civil service must be well organised and outward looking. first, the commission has taken steps to improve its own working methods, in particular by streamlining coordination between its services. the commission also modified its personnel policy through the adoption of new staff regulations on 1 may 2004. this includes a new career system and merit-based promotion. second, the reform aimed to create a culture based on service. this meant drafting a code of good administrative behaviour and led to the regulation on access to documents. third, in the field of financial control, the commission has completely recast the rules and procedures that govern the management of eu funds. this process obtained the unanimous support of the council and backing from the european parliament. the reform is in progress, but it is not yet complete. new structures have been put in place but their functioning may need further fine-tuning. in this sense a reform is never complete. in the process of implementation, the commission will in particular look at the simplification of procedures in order to remove unnecessary obstacles and combat red tape. i agree with the honourable member that the credibility of the european project strongly relies on the capacity of its institutions to adapt their structures and rules to the needs of the general public. therefore, reform is a continuous process that rightly deserves the attention of the european parliament.
thank you very much, commissioner. thank you for your answer. i regret to note that it has not been made quite clear whether the kinnock reform has been at least partially successful in this endeavour. my impression is that we actually know very little about it. there are probably many procedures in the european institutions that need to be simplified considerably. the fact is that member states cannot be expected to draw up their budgets effectively or to fulfil their obligations and rights without simplifying procedures.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission! creating new and better jobs, while ensuring that european union citizens enjoy the same or a higher level of social security, is not an easy task that we set ourselves with the lisbon strategy. most countries allocate large sums of money to the army of the unemployed. many young people spend long periods of time looking for their first job, hoping to gain much-needed experience. meanwhile, mothers are also responsible for their children and are thus working double time. at the same time, europe is facing an ageing population because women are no longer prepared to shoulder as much of the responsibility for the normal reproduction of the population as they did in the past. with equal education, women have increased their chances of employment and career advancement, if they give up their children or decide to have them later. today, women can no longer be expected to bear more children for the good of society and to devote themselves to motherhood, shouldering all the financial consequences. nor can employers be expected to provide additional benefits to mothers on a voluntary basis. it is therefore necessary to design employment policies, financial incentives and facilities in the european union countries in such a way as to encourage employers to create jobs adapted to mothers without harming the employer or the mother herself. in this way, women, mothers, would not have to choose between career and motherhood, but could combine the two for the good of society and for their own personal growth and benefit. saving at the expense of motherhood is the worst investment in the future of society.
thank you, mr president! i would like to speak to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia from the geo-strategic perspective of the european union's enlargement process towards the south east. its geographical position in the volatile balkans is of paramount importance to the european union, especially in a context where the constitutional status of neighbouring kosovo is not definitive and in the face of the sensitive constitutional reform it is undertaking under the ohrid framework agreement. the framework agreement is a constitutional statement of the principle of cultural diversity. the majority nation of macedonian slavs expresses in it its affiliation to share power with the minority nation of macedonian albanians at all levels, from state to local. the importance of the agreement for the stability of the situation must therefore be measured by the criteria of the civilizational turning point. the reform of basic social relations is taking place in parallel with economic reforms. to move forward, the country needs a clear perspective of moving closer to the european union and our help in consolidating its new identity. it is also part of the question posed by rapporteur samuelsen: 'is it not time to consider the european union recognising it under its constitutional name - the republic of macedonia? the following paragraph is added: - thank you. - thank you.
thank you very much, mr. president. i'd like to pick up where my esteemed colleague posselt left off. i agree with many of the messages emanating from the resolution and will therefore support it. but i am missing an important point in the resolution, which is that peace alone does not solve the complex, fundamental issues of coexistence between the peoples of this region. it would be a very wrong impression to think that we now have fully formed democratic states in this region and that we should go to them and the eu just to accelerate their modernization and integration into the eu. in my view, the eu should take more initiatives and responsibilities to establish the basic status of certain countries in the region by peaceful means, without resorting to violence, by agreement and, above all, in a more lasting way. for example, the unreformed dayton agreement is an obstacle to the development of bih, the status of kosovo needs to be finalized, most serbs and montenegrins want to live in independent states, etc. i think these are fundamental questions that deserve a more fundamental answer than we are able to give at this time.
thank you, thank you! in this room, commission president barroso stressed the importance of the lisbon strategy and the need to establish the free movement of services, the last of the key features of the european union's internal market. on the one hand, there is a clear desire to remove obstacles to the smooth functioning of the internal market, and on the other hand, we find that our companies are often in an unequal position. the limitation of business activity in the internal market is occurring, for example, in the manufacture and installation of machinery and equipment, in the field of metal structures, construction, decoration, processing of natural stone and so on. commissioner, you said you were aware of the problems in the new member states. but we are not talking about these problems today, but about the problems in the old member states. you said the commission would take action against violations. of course, we would like to know when this will happen and what the results of these measures will be. the number of discriminatory practices is clearly very high and the effectiveness of those who should be responsible for ensuring compliance with the community legal order is poor. commissioner, i have the feeling that we new members of the european union have prepared ourselves much better for eu membership and enlargement than the european institutions have done. i'd like to know what you think about that.
on behalf of the alde group. thank you, mr president! recognising cultural diversity, which in practice means coexistence between people of different traditions, means, among other things, respecting different cultural traditions. respect for cultural diversity means being able to understand and value other people as we do ourselves. intertwining is extremely fruitful and enriches a society with the added value of a special kind, while also releasing tensions in human relationships. the principles of cultural diversity mean respecting fellow human beings for their good human qualities and not for their origins. if a principle takes root in society, it becomes a natural barrier to separation and division. it turns out that liberal and culturally diverse societies are also the most economically successful. such as developed in europe in the 20th century despite two world wars are among the greatest achievements of human civilization. we thought that these achievements were beyond question, but we were wrong. where did the majority that approved the ethnic cleansing in the 1990s, for example, come from, this most blatant denial of cultural diversity? numerous, but fortunately isolated, events show that reasonable standards can be turned against them. when societies start to tolerate hate speech, when extreme politicians can speak disparaging words about other cultures without consequence, it means that the brakes have been lifted. public sensitivity is lower, and those who point out intolerance of other cultures are declared intolerant. perhaps we have been over-expecting and idealizing the model of multiculturalism, but something is clear now. despite our imperfections, we know that the rules for peaceful coexistence between people of different cultures have no equivalent alternatives. the measures to promote global cultural exchange and the draft unesco document under discussion today are an important contribution and our joint political and economic investment in the future. thank you, thank you!
in the context of closer integration in the european union, cultural integration is of great importance, with film playing a special role. i therefore welcome the report on film heritage, as i believe that proper and timely preservation allows the preservation of film heritage for future generations. in times of rapid development and change, it is essential that each nation preserve its identity and national wealth, especially for small nations such as ours, the slovenian. it is therefore necessary for the member states to support their film industry, national film academies and film projects, otherwise a vacuum will be created in the film recording of a historical period, the life and culture of a nation. since modern man spends a lot of time watching movies, education in this area is also urgently needed, especially for young people. with more knowledge, quality films will become more relevant, which are not made to appeal to the widest possible audience, but their mission is reduced if the viewer is not able to recognize the quality. i therefore support amendment no 10, in which the rapporteur recommends that member states promote visual education and media literacy within national education systems and vocational training programmes. the purpose of preserving the film heritage is to make these archives accessible for the purposes of education, research and cultural integration. but since this is also the age of sound film, film is also a good and effective means of speeding up language learning, and i think that subtitles are often more appropriate than dubbing to preserve authenticity.
commissioner, i'd like to ask you the following question. when a crime is committed, the victim and the perpetrator are not on equal footing. the state provides legal protection for the perpetrator, but the victim must help himself. i am therefore very pleased that you have today explicitly stated your intention to pay special attention to the victims of organised crime. i am also pleased that the political programme of the european people's party has placed particular emphasis on this issue. i am therefore interested to know how the commission will ensure that victims are treated more appropriately in the member states.
following the political upheaval in kyrgyzstan, which is not fully comparable to developments in ukraine and georgia, the key causes of instability in the economic, social and other areas remain unaddressed. the new government cannot solve the accumulated problems until the presidential elections on july 10, nor in a few months after. i myself experienced the revolution as a special envoy of the chairman to the osce, which i believe is working quite successfully there with the support of the european union and the united nations. i thank you for your kind words on the work of the osce, which is currently working mainly on fair elections, improving security and political dialogue between presidential candidates. it is well known that there are great differences between the north and the south and that without this basis, but not only on this basis, political instability could occur before the elections themselves. after 10 july, of course, the international community will need long-term assistance in implementing political, economic and social reforms. i am glad that commissioner almunia has already drawn attention to the strategic aspect today, followed by mr brok and other speakers. i have myself repeatedly stressed the need for the european union to reconsider its attitude towards this area, which is not part of the wider europe but is closer to us than it seems. i think that in this relationship, as mr brok has already said, the transatlantic and russian dimensions must also be taken into account. i am certainly in favour of parliament's attention to kyrgyzstan by means of a strong team of observers, and i would also like to assure you that the kyrgyz parliament welcomes our parliamentary delegation.
the human wisdom says: "what we do not know, we fear. " this also applies to knowledge of the european union and its institutions. yesterday we discussed the future of europe 60 years after the war. most speakers, in different words, stressed that europe's greatest achievements since the war have been the preservation of peace, reconciliation between nations, cooperation and the acceptance of our diversity. but peace is not a given. it is something that will have to be pursued in the future. democracy is a very demanding task, which leaves a lot of freedom to the individual. this is why good, effective and objective information is so important to help us make the right and wise decisions. i welcome the call for the european union institutions to improve the conditions and working relations of accredited journalists, since the high cost of this means that mainly newspapers and television companies in smaller countries cannot afford to follow and report directly on the meetings of the institutions and to train their journalists to understand better the workings of the european union. this year i attended many interesting spring day events organized in slovenian schools. the pupils, together with the teachers, have organised cultural programmes, exhibitions and round tables. i got the impression from these meetings that young people are interested in what we do in the european parliament, how to get a job in the institutions of the european union, what powers the eu has, what the constitution brings. i therefore welcome the proposal that the member states should include knowledge of the european institutions in their educational programmes, since no information can be effective if we do not have the appropriate background on a given subject. the european commission has also launched a new website, 'europe', to promote equal opportunities for all official languages.
immediately after the referendum in the netherlands failed, one of europe's leading figures called for a meeting of the representatives of the founding countries of the european union. they were supposed to discuss the specific responsibilities of these founding members. of course, from a formal point of view, everyone has the right to meet with anyone. but from a political point of view, i think that such an initiative can be a bit of a hindrance at this delicate time of stagnation in the european union. can it send a worrying message or raise the question of whether, one year after the enlargement of the european union, some countries are more european than others? are these countries more qualified and more responsible than, say, the new members of the european union? i am one of the proponents of the eu. i ask this question because i want to make sure that, even in this sensitive period for the eu, all 25 member states, regardless of when they joined, work together to forge a future for the eu.
some 700,000 lorries carrying goods across slovenia to italy each year have to use the detours through the italian customs posts at trieste and gorica when crossing the border. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the state aid granted to the airlines in the form of the guarantee was compatible with the internal market. if they do not pay, they are stopped and forbidden to continue driving. i believe that the reason for this arrangement in italy is that, after slovenia's accession to the eu, the volume of customs services related to transit freight traffic has been halved. the unjustified tolling is a financial compensation. however, these medieval-style duties seriously infringe the principle of free movement of goods and persons within the eu and constitute an inadmissible precedent.
the diversity of landscapes in different european countries also dictates different working conditions, especially in the agricultural sector. thus, countries with a predominantly mountainous terrain cannot compete in yield per hectare with those with much more favorable conditions for farming. nevertheless, from an environmental and strategic point of view, it would be a great loss for any country and region to neglect farming and rural development because of the more difficult working conditions. it is therefore appropriate to support the proposals of the committee on agriculture on support for rural development through the european agricultural fund. our fathers and grandfathers cultivated the land for the sake of survival and for the love of the land, although their efforts were never fully rewarded. today, fewer and fewer people do it for love, but they want to earn money and create better working and living conditions, just as those in business or the public sector do. i therefore particularly support the proposal to support young farmers, which will enable them to create the basic conditions for further work. slovenia's experience shows that when a young farmer takes over a farm, he usually also upgrades it and continues farming successfully. but if he leaves the farm because he sees no prospects, he rarely returns, often finding a better and faster way to make money. today, however, the demand is for an educated farmer who knows how to integrate his products into the market economy, who knows the law and is innovative and also environmentally conscious. all this requires a great deal of knowledge and support from society, the european union, the state and citizens. all citizens want to continue to enjoy a healthy diet, a beautiful countryside, and a clean environment. therefore, rural development is a matter for society as a whole, not just for farmers. this should also be facilitated by simplified rules, so that not all intermediaries in the payment of aid earn more than the farmer himself.
member of the commission. mr president, before i start my closing remarks i should like to respond to the remark by mr batten. i should like to draw his attention to the fact that, as far as the commission and the council are concerned, we are absolutely certain that the european parliament had no intention other than to control cash flows in order to combat terrorism and organised crime. i should like to comment briefly on the three amendments proposed by the rapporteur. the commission fully understands the rapporteur’s desire to ensure that full and proper attention is paid to the data protection issues. that certainly deserves underlining at a time when a range of strong enforcement measures are on the table. the commission considers that the three amendments proposed do not restrict or enlarge the scope of the existing data protection provisions but instead focus attention on the need to apply them appropriately when dealing with travellers carrying large sums of cash. the commission considers that drawing attention to this requirement is positive and would accordingly accept the three amendments tabled. given the council’s acceptance of these amendments, i consider that mr peillon’s report provides us with a real opportunity to bring the lengthy examination of this proposal to a successful conclusion. i would hope that you can confirm your support during the vote on this proposal.
this regulation is only one of the many legal bases underpinning the effective fight against terrorism. terrorism is a metastasis of modern society, a phenomenon that cannot be tackled by a single measure but requires a wide range of activities by member states and the eu as a whole. although this regulation does not seem to impose any major requirements or changes in border control, it is nevertheless an important part of the anti-terrorism package. we must be aware that many security measures at the eu's borders and within them can make a significant contribution to a higher level of security and protection against terrorist acts. i take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mr peillon, for his willingness and cooperation in finding the best way forward. i think this report represents a good compromise and i fully support it.
this is not the first time that tragic events have occurred in uzbekistan and we must do our best to prevent them from happening again. if this fails, it could destabilise not only uzbekistan but the wider central asian region. demands for an independent international inquiry have already been expressed by the un through the high commissioner for human rights, the european union through its council and the osce through its chairman. in this respect, i can only support the decisions of the council of the european union. the european union and others who wish to contribute to the solution of this highly complex and challenging problem should be fully aware of the causes, course and consequences of the tragic events. i believe that in addition to the investigation requested on several occasions, a comprehensive analysis of the sources of possible further destabilisation in uzbekistan is also needed. i am convinced that the extremely complex situation cannot be covered by the explanation of terrorism and religious fundamentalism alone. we should not allow ourselves to be diagnosed superficially, because it could lead to the wrong policy. some other elements of instability have already been mentioned here today. what is essential for the european union is that we should strive to bring stability to uzbekistan in a democratic framework and to bring about reforms that will first unleash internal political dialogue and then take the country to a higher level of democracy and also economic progress.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the report we are discussing tonight is entirely in line with the commission's convictions and the policy we are pursuing, and i am extremely grateful for the support of the european parliament. first of all, it was necessary to ensure that industrial policy in europe was understood as a political task once again. we had to make it clear that we in europe cannot do without a strong and efficient industrial base and that it is a mistake to think that we can live on services alone. that has already been achieved. secondly, it is about ensuring that european industry remains competitive in the long term in an increasingly competitive world. this is the main thrust of the new strategy for growth and employment which the commission has put forward and which parliament has approved by a large majority. this is about improving our capacity to innovate above all. the european industry can only survive and create growth and jobs on a global scale if the product made in europe is in any case an absolute top product. we cannot compete on lower social standards, lower environmental standards or lower wages, but only on performance, quality and technological progress. thirdly, we must analyse very carefully where our industry has structural problems. i shall present a communication shortly which will analyse in detail the industrial sectors in europe and we shall set out in detail the steps which are necessary to improve the competitive position of european industry. because everyone will see that: the problems of the automobile industry are not the problems of the chemical industry, the problems of the textile industry are not the problems of the machinery industry. i am very grateful to the rapporteur for having emphasized the problem of small and mediumsized enterprises. i think that is a key focus of our efforts. the european economy thrives on the flexibility and innovation capacity of its 25 million small and medium-sized enterprises. we should always be aware that new jobs in europe are created only - and i say this explicitly - in this sector. the high productivity growth in european industry will mean that no new industrial jobs will be created for years to come. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. the density of regulation we have achieved in europe in some areas is simply too much for small and mediumsized enterprises. i therefore make an announcement to you today, which is also addressed to the european parliament. this commission takes the better regulation project very seriously. this means not only improving the quality of legislation, but also saying no much more often in the future. we will say no if the member states are calling for regulations which are not necessary, and i will also say no if the european parliament - and this is unfortunately often the case - is calling for regulations which we do not need, and then the same parliament criticizes the commission for making too many regulations. you will see a new commission here. we will say no to the idea of over-regulation and we will see how the european public reacts. i'm curious, and i hope you'll cooperate. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. it is also what our economy needs to improve its growth opportunities and investment opportunities.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) have specific requirements for competitive development compared to large enterprises and therefore need to be given special attention in policy-making. industrial policy must not be an exception, as knowledge-based industrial development is far from limited to large enterprises. for example, higher funding for research still does not guarantee more innovation, so entrepreneurial spirit embodied by smes is needed. smes are not just drivers of economic growth. we must be aware that they also represent an opportunity for the european union in a political sense, they carry a political charge, because the rejection of the constitutional treaty in france and the netherlands is due, among other things, to the fact that europeans do not feel the direct consequences of the actions and decisions of the european institutions. the same applies to smes that do not have the resources to take advantage of the benefits offered by the european union. in this report, therefore, we, as the european parliament, make a special case for institutional measures to strengthen the innovation capacity of smes. we are committed to the european union putting at the forefront of its action the interconnected processes such as research, education and the elimination of administrative burdens that particularly hinder small and medium-sized enterprises from taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the eu. mr. commissioner, i have to ask you to respect my wishes. the report was drafted with the full support of the members of the new member states. we are aware that industrial policy can be an opportunity both for the geographically larger old member states, which have the conditions to develop major industrial champions, and for the new member states, which, with their dynamic sector of innovative smes, can provide the basis for high economic growth and long-term enhancement of european competitiveness.
the ease with which europe has entered the crisis sends a very worrying message: that peace and progress in europe are taken for granted by people and their political leaders, when they are not. if it is true that they depend on the growing interconnectedness of the european peoples, their reciprocity and solidarity, then we all who believe in the european idea must, at this very moment of crisis, sharpen the fundamental dilemma we are facing. will we be able to give the idea of political union a new impetus, a new inspiration and go on, or will we be content with the common market and take a step backwards in this respect? almost 20 years ago, it was rightly recognised that the single market alone could not adequately address the challenges facing europe. twenty years later, this idea can answer those needs so much less. so if we find ourselves in a crisis, i suggest that we don't solve it with some minor fixes, but that we focus back on the fundamental issues. i am not advocating the actions of prime minister blair, but i would like to point out one of his points which i think is relevant to the consideration of this future: is it right, in the light of the lisbon objectives, to allocate almost half of all the union's budgetary resources to agriculture, while we are easily prepared to cut funding through the fundamental measures and instruments of the lisbon strategy: science, education, technology. i think these are the relevant, fundamental questions that we need to address now. the more courageously we ask these questions, the better chance we have of solving the complexity we find ourselves in.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. we live in a time that demands a rapid response to global change and security threats. when we try to formulate and define a policy of joint security research, it is not an irrational fear or ideology, but a very rational policy that will enable a higher level of security for european citizens. the dangers and threats require a european solution. safety research, as it is designed, is also a tool to increase european competitiveness and achieve the lisbon objectives. they represent an area of great research, innovation and technological potential for the european union. in this light, i would like to express my deep concern about the potentially fatal consequences that an inadequate agreement on the financial perspective could have for the field of safety research. if the council does not follow the european parliament's guidance and the commission's initial proposal, there is a strong fear that new programmes, which are still included in the seventh framework programme, will be abolished. these new programmes include safety research. it should be made clear that without adequate financial support, good results cannot be expected. the kok report itself makes the clear finding that the achievement of the lisbon objectives is primarily the responsibility of the member states, both in their domestic decision-making and in their decision-making at european level. i therefore call on the council and the commission to give strong support to the mechanisms that enable the objectives of the lisbon strategy to be achieved and thus to safety research, also in the negotiations on the financial perspective. they are important for each individual member state and, because of their many synergies, also for the european integration processes.
information and communication technologies are certainly among the most rewarding factors for economic growth and sustainable development today. in addition to increasing productivity and promoting inclusion in society, this transition to digital communications can also be a reason for exclusion from society, especially if users or citizens are not sufficiently aware of the benefits or are not trained to use modern acquisitions. it is therefore very important to invest in the development of the information society, but also in education in the use of modern technologies from the earliest stages of schooling. on the other hand, society must not exclude the elderly who are still afraid to use modern communication and modern media. there are many cases where citizens have preferred to retire or become unemployed rather than to become computer literate. in today's fast pace of development, we have difficulty keeping up with the new, and this will be repeated from generation to generation. there is thus a risk of elites being created by exclusion from the information society. given that more and more services are being provided through modern channels and less and less in paper form, discrimination may occur due to lack of knowledge and experience in this area. therefore, in addition to development, society must ensure that education is available to all segments of the population and all age groups. it is also important to pay close attention to the safety of the use of modern technologies and communications in order to increase trust and reduce the potential for abuse as they develop. institutions offering these services must warn consumers of the potential risks, while providing a guarantee in case of abuse.
an eight-month project entitled 'chemicals in toys' involving consumer organisations from ten european countries, supported by the danish institute of technology, produced worrying findings in 2004. but an international study measuring the levels of various chemicals in toys also revealed something interesting. of the 83 toy samples, only 15 were free of any of the chemicals we were looking for. however, among the 15 'clean' toys, the majority, nine, were from the same group of plastic toys that did not contain phthalates. this may have been a side effect of the phthalate ban after 1999. the industry has also replaced other chemicals in toys, which could be a confirmation of the correctness of the legislative approach based on the precautionary principle.
in patent law, an invention is subject to a specific type of legal protection. it is not the tangible implementation of an idea that is protected, but the idea or concept itself. so invention is always something intangible. this dual nature of patent protection causes problems with the real-life effects of patent law, where it clashes with the interests and rights of software creators as such. the problem is that there are companies who want to protect investments in r & d with patent rights, and there are companies and individuals who want to keep the area open to all intellectual property rights. as legislators, we must distinguish between those who consider that the division of powers is a matter which has traditionally been the subject of patent protection and those who believe, on the contrary, that the council's common position does not exclude the possibility of software patenting altogether. most of the amendments proposed by the legal committee have come closer to a balanced definition and i therefore find them useful to complement the common position and to provide a good basis for a final decision.
it's been a year since i became a member of the european parliament. the issue of the patentability of computer-generated inventions is certainly one of the most important that we have dealt with in this period. i can say that a lot of people were involved in the debate on this directive, both in my country of origin, slovenia, and in other european countries. in this respect, the proposal for a directive has already had positive consequences, as many citizens have become actively involved in the democratic process. they could have realised that the european institutions were not so far away from them if they showed some activity. but in parliament, it is not the citizens who decide, but we, the parliamentarians, who decide for them and on their behalf. what do i have in mind when deciding how to vote on a directive? that we must follow the lisbon strategy in europe if we are to respond adequately to the challenges of globalisation. we must take advantage of our competitive advantage over the rest of the world and build our development on knowledge, research and its transfer to practice. and we will only encourage people to do that if, among other things, we provide adequate protection for intellectual property. we must therefore summon the courage to create a proper, unified european legal system that rewards innovative work. i am convinced that the present moment is appropriate for the adoption of the proposed directive. however, in order to avoid any fear of patenting programmes as such, it is appropriate that the directive clearly states that they remain outside patent protection, that is to say, in the domain of copyright. i am in favour of the directive containing clear definitions of the basic concepts. however, given the important role of smes in the european union, it is also important to monitor the impact of the directive on their operations.
the proposal for a regulation establishing a european association for crossborder cooperation was designed as part of the reformed cohesion legislation, which will be available to member states if they so wish. it still remains a highly controversial instrument, due to the fact that it is not, by its legal nature, a tool of any kind. it is a new generation instrument of european policy, created in the light of the constitutional objective of increasing geographical cohesion and based on the extensive experience of regions that have developed crossborder cooperation in the past years under interreg but have had difficulties in doing so because of different national legislation. the new mergers introduced by this regulation are likely to be targeted. this document will already enable the regions concerned to implement regional projects of cross-border relevance. the advantage will be that such activity will no longer be dependent, as it has been in the past, on rotating majorities in the parliaments of the member states, so that it will not have to be organised at the lowest level. the new regulation differs from the existing practice of interregional cooperation by introducing a higher level of mandatory implementation. the difference is the legal division of tasks, which naturally increases the responsibility of the authorities and sharpens the financial responsibility for managing the common funds. as far as funds from european union funds are concerned, the state is always financially responsible, even when these funds are managed by associations. the other funds will be the responsibility of the associations themselves. the commission's initial proposal called for amendments to the competence of the supervisory authorities of the country whose law will be chosen. there was no room for anything that was not clearly legally regulated. we believe that the amendments we have agreed with the rapporteur have filled in such gaps to a satisfactory extent. practice will show whether our submissions were correct.
one of the important, perhaps even decisive, reasons for the war tragedy in the former yugoslavia was the fact that the international community was neither consistent nor united in its approach to the fundamental question of the right of peoples to self-determination. there is now peace in the region, but we are still far from progress that would ensure long-term prosperity. it is right that we are sending a message of welcome to this region in the european union with this report and the commissioner's speech, and it is also right that we are putting the emphasis on economic progress, but this is not enough. the european union is faced with a task that in some ways was faced even before the tragedy of the war itself, namely to have some consistent and unified view on the fundamental status issues of the peoples and states in this region. the dayton agreement does not guarantee progress for bosnia and herzegovina, which needs a modern constitution. we must find an answer to the question of kosovo's independence, the right of self-determination of serbs and montenegrins. we cannot accept that the macedonians do not deserve the name they have given themselves. these are all fundamental status issues. i would like to support the commissioner in saying that the european commission should be more active in this policy than it has been so far.
on behalf of the alde group. although many countries have already banned the use, stockpiling, production and proliferation of antipersonnel landmines and have committed to their destruction by ratifying the convention, antipersonnel and other landmines still exist. just yesterday, a slovenian army vehicle in afghanistan was hit by a land mine. they lie hidden in the natural and habitable environment, threatening humans and animals, killing and inflicting great suffering with physical and psychological injury and social and other lasting consequences. the world is still not free of the threat of this most inhumane weapon polluting our planet. i understand the situation and the historical circumstances in the three member states of the european union that have not yet ratified the conventions, but now is the time for change. the prevention and deterrence of the threat of military conflict in europe should be ensured by other means. there are more victims of land mines than we think, or are aware of. the victims are not just innocent civilians, but primarily farmers and their children, who, if they survive, are mentally and physically damaged and scarred for life. their parents, relatives, neighbors, friends, and acquaintances are also victims. it is right that our resolution also talks about money for the rehabilitation and reintegration of victims. rehabilitation is a long and very demanding process, which only allows for a final and real rehabilitation. but any demining is much cheaper than clearing the blast and rehabilitating the victims. we must also continue to work on demining in southeastern europe, less than a thousand kilometres from strasbourg, where there are still new victims of landmines. if we don't do this faster, we'll face new victims, and we won't be as convincing and successful on other continents as we are if we don't prove ourselves at home first. only a world without mines allows the return of refugees and the restoration of agriculture, an important economic sector, especially in countries where wars have raged.
the directive under consideration is aimed in particular at mines that will start to close in the future or at abandoned mining sites that have been closed without proper and appropriate procedures. i would like to draw attention to a particular problem which is of considerable importance to some countries. these are mines that have already been closed and therefore have stopped receiving mining waste, and the remediation is carried out in accordance with the european valid permits. however, due to the long period required for closure, the remediation will still be ongoing once this directive enters into force. in order to avoid duplication of procedures and an increase in the cost of remediation due to the possible need for new authorisations, it is appropriate to provide for a specific regulation of these cases for a transitional period and under conditions of transparency. this was done by the third paragraph of article 24 of the council's common position. the objective of the directive, namely that no additional damage should be caused by the closure of mines from the moment of its entry into force, would not be jeopardised if the closure of mines in installations which are already close to complete decommissioning could be carried out smoothly. i support that part of the common position.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. i welcome the clear answer given by the commissioner on behalf of the commission. above all, i am pleased that the european commission sees declaration 11 to the amsterdam treaty as a stimulus for dialogue with churches and non-confessional organisations and is not limited to its narrow legal aspect. of course, i do not think it is necessary to explain in this house that dialogue is something other than a process of co-decision. i am also pleased that article 52 of the european constitutional treaty, which has not yet been ratified, expressly refers to a dialogue which the union should maintain in an open, transparent and regular manner. in the convention part, i myself advocated an open, inclusive and public dialogue, believing that such dialogue is necessary and important, also because it means being close to citizens who may have religious or other beliefs when they are thinking about a common european future. i certainly hope that this dialogue will contribute to the responsible and relaxed development of new links and proposals for our future, far from the temptations of intolerant ideologisation that we have witnessed many times in europe's past, but which also shows that we are not totally immune to it today. in the spirit of the declaration and the constitutional treaty yet to be ratified, i expect the european commission to follow transparent rules of the game and procedures and to remain broad in its understanding of the inclusiveness of the dialogue participants. i can certainly imagine that, given the large number of religious and non-confessional organisations of both old and new date, it is not easy for the commission to make a selection, which is probably impossible without taking into account a certain criterion of representativeness. it also makes sense to me that the commission remains flexible in the selection of dialogue participants, but with regard to the subject of the dialogue. i should also like to add, ladies and gentlemen, that the european people's party - european democrats has long been aware of the importance of this kind of dialogue and has therefore been organising it for many years. he also believes that this dialogue is becoming even more important in the face of new challenges at european and global level. i am thinking in particular of dialogue with islam, which pays particular attention to the religious component of its interlocutors.
i welcome this report and i am committed to protecting minors who are exposed to dangers through the media, especially the internet, of which parents and carers are not fully aware. it is therefore urgent to inform, educate and alert parents, educators and society as a whole to these modern pitfalls. but no amount of adult supervision can prevent all dangers. social violence and violence among minors are on the rise, and the media and electronic games are also to blame, for it is through these that minors learn the skills of violent behavior, identify with the negative characters of these games, and thus become immune to the suffering of others or even enjoy it and see it as normal. while we fight terrorism all over the world, we also support and reinforce it with this violent content. since profit is often the only thing that matters in the business world, governments must impose limits by means of regulations and laws, and they must also monitor compliance with these limits and take appropriate action if they are violated. on the other hand, all those who profit from the media and minors must also take responsibility for their actions. the industries should describe the proposed content, which will facilitate the ranking of websites and allow the creation of shortcuts and alerts and appropriate filtering. i wonder if violent content is the only thing that makes money, when there are so many important things in life that can be passed on to young people in an interesting and informative way, while also doing something for a better society and relationships between people.
i believe that there should be a system of adequate remuneration for the owners of patents for medicinal products which are required to undergo mandatory clinical trials for use in paediatrics. in doing so, we must avoid the cumulation of the rewards under this regulation and other parts of european legislation. much of the debate revolved around issues that had already been overcome by the delicate balance between original and generic manufacturers in the recent revision of european pharmaceutical legislation, such as 'who will benefit the most? " and so on. when national health budgets are included, the picture changes. the entry of generic manufacturers into the marketplace increases competition, low-cost drugs, and reduces the burden on healthcare providers. in order to achieve this objective and to ensure that manufacturers of generic medicinal products are reimbursed for the real additional costs of clinical trials, it is appropriate that european legislation be based on verified cost data. the unjustified prolongation of the market monopoly for medicinal products, even if short-lived, would bring about large profits and would impose an unjustifiable new burden on the health funds.
the european parliament frequently refers to human rights. we draw the attention of members to developments in the world, but we are particularly sensitive to minorities, who in certain cases require special attention and care. and women are not a minority. in the european union, we represent more than half the population. yet, women in our society face problems that are the result of their sex alone. we must therefore reject the fact that women are still discriminated against in various health systems. yet one of the fundamental socioeconomic rights in the charter of human rights of the european union is the right to healthcare. it is therefore appropriate that the european parliament, as the highest democratic institution in the european union, draw attention to this fact and propose possible measures. in doing so, we must respect the principle of subsidiarity, including in the document we are considering today. i therefore support the document and i also support the amendments which are necessary to respect the principle of subsidiarity. the powers of individual member states as the european parliament must not be interfered with. but we have the opportunity to take an important step forward ourselves in the discussions and the formulation of european policies where we have such competence. i hereby declare that the european parliament has adopted a co-decision on the seventh framework programme. an important area of this programme is health. the financial resources we will allocate to this programme must reflect the demographic indicators and the real needs of our citizens. this is another way of getting closer to the people who will have the opportunity to experience firsthand how the common european policy affects their quality of life.
i've heard a lot of praise from parents about european schools. however, the difficulties of organisation and the large number of pupils have also created certain shortcomings, especially after the accession of new members last year, when the number of pupils increased significantly. some schools are facing overcrowding, which is reducing the quality of teaching. more money must be set aside for increased needs. the first year of school is particularly stressful for both parents and pupils, as they have to deal with adapting to a new environment, language, classmates and teachers right from the start, so understanding the teachers is very important in integration. those who hear most of the material in a foreign language face the greatest difficulties. and even those who have a conversational level of foreign language proficiency have more difficulty in specific subjects such as chemistry, geography, mathematics, etc. different children with different talents and different abilities attend schools, but not all of them can cope with the complexity of the programme leading to the european baccalaureate. it is therefore necessary to provide pupils with the opportunity to obtain a certificate of completion of education other than that of the baccalaureate. it is also not enough for children with special needs, who need more adaptation and special skills of teachers. overcrowded classrooms prevent teachers from paying enough attention to children with special needs and learning or social difficulties. however, the efforts of all those who work to improve the quality of teaching and to help integrate and learn about a multicultural europe are to be commended. we must strive to ensure that as many children as possible can use their mother tongue, at least in part, in the european school, otherwise they will have a lot of knowledge at the end of school but will not be able to use their mother tongue correctly.
in 1940, italy removed from the territory of slovenian istria, koper, isola and piran artworks created in this area by order of the church and private individuals before the war danger. the works were done by italian masters. like the yugoslav state before it, the slovenian state is making a concerted effort on behalf of the owners to recover these priceless pieces. italy has avoided addressing this issue at a professional level and has rejected all efforts by the slovenian side to find a diplomatic solution to the problem. therefore, on 22 september this year, the ministry of foreign affairs again sent a verbal note to the italian side, in which it again expressed its request for a diplomatic solution to this issue. italy is obliged by international treaty to return everything it has taken from the occupied territories, so in slovenia we rightly expect the return of these works of art.
i sincerely and gladly welcome the attention paid by the european commission and the european parliament to solidarity, without which we would not be celebrating the breakdown of communist totalitarianism or the historic enlargement of the european union. on this occasion, i cannot help but recall how strongly the phenomenon of solidarity strengthened the hopes of the democrats in slovenia and what john paul ii's words meant to us at the time when he said: "do not be afraid. while we acknowledge solidarity and remember with particular respect those who paid with their lives for freedom and democracy, we are aware that solidarity is not a museum category but an inspiration, a concept, a need and a path without which i cannot imagine european and global development. we're building a monument to solidarity, but we're not archiving it, we're trying to develop it further. the need for solidarity between generations, social partners, the more and the less developed, in the field of safety, in the event of accidents and elsewhere is clear. i am convinced that the quality of our lives in the future will depend on the application of this fundamental principle. i think that after this historic breakthrough, we need another period of solidarity.
member of the commission. in my previous reply to the honourable member, i stated that the commission is prepared to examine the legislation in question on the basis of more specific information. while the commission has not received specific complaints regarding the austrian legislation, i would remind the honourable member of the study which has been commissioned to report on all the national rules applicable to the various forms of gambling services. this study is due to be completed by the end of this year and i expect it to include a legal and economic review to help us all better understand the complex issues involved and to inform us of the laws applicable in the member states, including austria. i repeat my invitation to the honourable member to provide us with more details or practical examples of the problems slovenian gaming operators have experienced in advertising their activities. such information would assist the commission in establishing whether infringement proceedings should be opened.
commissioner, thank you for your comprehensive answer. we will be very pleased to provide you with concrete cases of discrimination whereby certain austrian companies refuse to publish advertisements for casinos on the territory of the republic of slovenia, because this is prohibited by their domestic legislation. there is material evidence to that effect, and we will inform you of all such evidence as soon as possible. thank you for your cooperation.
the reporter. this recommendation is based on the need to improve european cooperation in higher education, especially in the field of quality improvement. higher education must become more transparent and even more reliable in the eyes of students, european citizens and also inhabitants of other continents. the recommendation calls for the establishment of common starting points for the internal quality control system and for external evaluation, based on common guidelines and criteria. this is to encourage all higher education institutions to develop rigorous internal quality control mechanisms and to use the results of all assessments in further improvement work. it is also important that the results of the evaluations are made available to the public. the standards and guidelines proposed by the european quality assurance network in higher education have already been adopted by the bologna process ministerial meeting of higher education ministers held in bergno on 19 and 20 may 2005. however, these common general standards and guidelines should not be a barrier to development, as diversity and innovation in higher education institutions need to be encouraged. ministers also welcomed the proposal to establish a european register of quality assurance agencies and invited the competent authorities to further develop practical aspects of implementation. our report also stresses that european union activities in the field of quality assurance in higher education should develop in line with the bologna process, which involves 45 european countries, in order to avoid any divergence. in the further process, it will be necessary to establish a european register of reliable quality assurance agencies, for which criteria and operating rules will also need to be developed. higher education institutions will be able to choose independently from among the agencies in the register, according to their needs and profile, for assessment or additional assessment to strengthen their international reputation, in accordance with national legislation or agreements with the competent authorities. cooperation between agencies is also desirable in order to establish mutual trust and recognition of assessments. this will help to accelerate the recognition of qualifications in the case of study or work in another country. the more the european union improves the quality of education at all levels, the more it has the chance to at least get closer to the lisbon strategy objectives. this is not to ignore the fact that the nations that we are united in this community can learn a lot from each other, if we are able to cooperate and successfully share our experiences and examples of good practice. i am convinced that each country has some positive experiences and knowledge that it can pass on to others. our cooperation in education and science is all the more necessary and urgent in this time of rapid development and economic competition if we are to keep pace with developments on other continents. i hope that all member states and the relevant institutions will take this recommendation seriously and strive to improve the quality of higher education, which will undoubtedly also bring greater satisfaction to students, professors and researchers, and to us citizens, while improving mutual cooperation and economic growth in the european union.
we are increasingly talking about the crisis in the european union. knowing that only a strong community will help us to overcome the problems of the modern world and globalisation, we must constantly strive to preserve and unite the peoples of this community. the programs offered by the lifelong learning report can be of great help in this regard. our future is young people who will soon be deciding on politics, the economy and all other spheres of our lives. this makes it all the more important that as many young people as possible are involved in international education programmes from an early stage of their education. they are also much more motivated to learn languages, to get to know other countries and to be more tolerant of other peoples and cultures. on the other hand, we find that those countries that invested more in education have progressed the fastest and are among the most developed countries. i therefore support the rapporteur, doris pack, who is seeking to see more money allocated to education in the financial perspective than has been the case so far. the rapporteur also strives to support people with special needs, who are an important and equal member of our society. since we want to be a community with a social sense, we must give them our special attention. it is also important to involve as many smes and people with vocational training as possible in these projects, to motivate them to engage in lifelong learning and to help them acquire new, useful skills. as the european union's added value is also to learn from one another, i support cooperation and mobility in the field of lifelong learning, which is becoming a need and a reality for all sections of the population.
member of the commission. mr president, i know that it is late and we are tired, but i think this is one of the success stories of the good and close cooperation between the three institutions. we are helping to update very important legislation on food safety and thereby promoting the health of european citizens. it is true that this is a technical amendment and the idea is to keep the authorisations for food additives up to date with innovation incentive developments. of course, the requirements are there: the food additives have to be safe, there has to be a need for their use and consumers must not be misled by their use. i will mention a few specific points, very briefly, concerning nitrates and nitrites. after the advice we received from efsa, we proposed changes to the authorisations, so that we now have more control over the amounts of these additives. nevertheless, it is important to recognise that this approach is not appropriate for certain traditional national meat products and allowance is therefore made for derogation in order to keep those traditional products on the market. there is also a measure to allow new food additives, to help the food industry benefit from innovation and remain competitive. a package of compromise amendments was put together following close contact between the institutions. coreper has already agreed to this compromise package and i am very happy to add the commission’s support to these amendments. on the use of sweeteners in sports drinks, we felt that it was more appropriate to address this issue not in this specific directive, but in the context of future work relating to sports foods, including sports drinks, where such products can be properly defined. an issue that i know is of concern is that of aspartame, nicin and nitrosamine. these have been evaluated in the past and approved for use as food additives. they are not covered by the current proposal. however, i know that a recent study on aspartame has cast doubt on its safety and the commission has already asked the european food safety authority to proceed without delay to a full evaluation of the new data. as soon as this evaluation is completed, efsa will advise the commission accordingly on the safety of the product. we have also asked efsa to evaluate nicin and nitrosamine, two antimicrobial agents, as a matter of priority. in that connection, we have also asked efsa to address the issue of anti-microbial resistance. on these three issues, efsa has already written to the chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and i would like to say here in plenary that the commission will make full use of its competence to adopt emergency measures under chapter iv, section 2, ‘emergencies’ of regulation (ec) no 178/2002 on food law. should the european food safety authority advise that a food additive is not safe for consumers, we will immediately take all necessary steps, using the power given to us by the regulation, if any of the additives are judged by efsa not to be safe. i believe that, given the concerns expressed by members, this commitment by the commission should reassure them that we will deal with the issue with due regard for the safety of the public.
rapporteur. – mr president, manufacturers respond to ever greater demand by steadily developing new food products. their variegation is achieved mostly by adding additives. at the same time, the awareness of consumers is growing. additives are increasingly assessed on the basis of their necessity. the main motive of this directive, amending two current directives, was the revision of the use of salts of nitrates and nitrites, that is, preservatives permitted for use in meat products, cheese and certain fish products. the commission took account of the ruling of the european court of justice, according to which the level of nitrosamines must be kept at the lowest possible level, and of the opinion of efsa in that regard. however, the derogations granted to the uk as to the permitted residual levels of nitrates and nitrites in traditional meat products have opened broader debate on the subject, particularly on the definition of traditionally-manufactured products. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety agreed that the derogations are acceptable in special cases but must not distort the final aim of the revised directive. the rule of lowering the levels of nitrosamines must be maintained and exceptions must be permitted only when the traditional products are adequately specified and identified. the second major issue was the maximum level of sulphur dioxide and sulphites permitted in food. they probably have a hazardous potential for asthmatics and should therefore be kept at the lowest possible level. the environment committee agreed with the commission that the aim should be to limit in general the use of sulphur dioxide. the exemptions must be carefully evaluated. as rapporteur, i welcome the statement by the council in the annex to this directive regarding the need for an examination of all additive uses of sulphites as soon as possible, to ensure that acceptable daily intake is not exceeded. another problem was the evaluation of intensive sweeteners in general, some of them in particular. are intensive, non-caloric sweeteners recommendable if consumed in significant amounts and for a long period of time? what relation is there between intensive sweeteners and sports food? some aspects of this theme could not be dealt with on this occasion. they demand a broader scientific debate. i welcome the statement by the commission that, in the context of the work on the specific directive relating to sports foods, including sports drinks, the question of sweeteners will also be addressed. most of the aforementioned issues were confirmed in committee, yet three amendments that addressed special concerns have been defeated by a very narrow margin. that was the case in dealing with eu strategy to combat the threat posed by anti-microbial resistance, that is, with the authorisation of antibiotics – nicin and natamicin – and aspartame, a widely-used intensive sweetener. the scientific committee on food updated the information on the safety of aspartame two years ago and found that there was no evidence to suggest that the outcome of the earlier risk should be revised. as for nicin and natamicin, the risk assessment by efsa is under way or will begin soon. however, new evidence on the safety of aspartame might bring about a further update as regards its safety. i am therefore pleased that, in a letter to the chair of the environment committee, mr kyprianou has given his assurance that the commission will make full use of its competence to adopt emergency measures if the european food safety authority advises that food additives are not safe for the consumer. that form of assurance regards the prolonged intake of aspartame as well as the intake of antibiotics – nicin and natamicin. in spite of some outstanding issues, differences between the council and parliament were not insurmountable. with the substantial contribution of the commission, the first-reading deal was therefore within reach. all political groups have announced their interest in reaching that deal, so negotiations continued and today we can present an overall compromise package co-signed by the majority of political groups in parliament and agreed by the permanent representatives committee of the council. i wish to thank all shadow rapporteurs of the political groups, representatives of the british presidency of the council and the commission for their cooperation and the political advisors of all three institutions for their contribution, which was substantial in reaching an agreement.
mr. president, may i continue where my predecessor left off? i very much agree with the british prime minister's assessment that the structure of the european budget is outdated and no longer reflects the modern needs of the european union. i am pleased that the british presidency will be proposing some strategic changes in this direction at the informal meeting tomorrow. i would be very pleased if the financial perspective reflected this new consensus on european policy priorities. however, i feel obliged to stress, as the representative of the new countries, including slovenia, that the attempt to formulate new priorities in the budget must not be an excuse for postponing the adoption of the financial perspective in december. it is essential, especially for new member states, that the budget is adopted as soon as possible, otherwise we cannot successfully prepare our budget programmes to draw on the european funds.
mr president, there is an urgent need to guarantee constitutional rights to 18 305 citizens of the former yugoslavia, who were unlawfully erased from the register of the inhabitants of the newly independent slovenia in 1992. i wish to report on the most unusual case of one of those ‘erased’ people, mr ali berisha, a roma from kosovo, who came to slovenia as a young man in 1985, and until 1991, was legally employed and had permanent residence there. when he lost his rights of domicile in slovenia, he settled in germany, where he lived and worked for 12 years. he married and had four children. owing to regularisation of the situation, the german authorities recently deported him to kosovo, a country he left 20 years ago. the family returned to slovenia, from where the parents and four children are to be deported to germany on 18 november. i call on the slovenian government to restrain from executing the deportation decree on the berisha family until such time as the slovenian court of justice has ruled on the complaint.
the reporter. first of all, i would like to apologise for the delay caused by the delay of the plane and the practically non-existent traffic in strasbourg. the report under discussion today describes measures relating to the social dimension of globalisation. this report is also the first response of the commission and the european parliament to the dimensions of globalisation and, of course, to the report of the world commission on the social dimension of globalisation, set up by the international labour organisation (ilo). there are several definitions of globalization. its basic idea is the progressive integration of economies and societies. it is driven by new technologies, new economic relations and national and international policies of different actors, from governments to civil society. globalization is a process that has no ideological label, it is not left or right, liberal or green, it is a process that has positive and negative consequences. so we can look at it from different perspectives, economic, financial, technological, environmental, and so on. in this report, we discuss the social dimensions of globalisation. the commission document emphasises the social dimension of european bilateral and regional relations, covering bilateral and regional agreements, political dialogue at regional level, the european union's neighbourhood policy, respect for human rights and democratisation in third countries, migration developments, etc. the millennium development goals, which emphasise, inter alia, cooperation policy, ensuring that trade policy fully supports social development, enabling underdeveloped countries to access developed countries' markets, supporting private initiative for social development and the transfer of good practices, should also be mentioned. in my report, i tried to emphasise in particular the following: we must strengthen those elements of globalisation that are working positively and create conditions to reduce the negative effects of globalisation. good practice in eu member states can serve as an example for the rest of the world, and member states should work towards the success of the revised lisbon strategy. we need to create an environment that supports entrepreneurship, investment and social development. but we also need a more flexible labour market, less bureaucracy and more ownership. to maintain the competitiveness of the european economy, as well as social development, great investments in human resources are needed, and i welcome the commission's efforts in this direction. the european parliament must support the core labour standards and the decent work programme of the international labour organisation. we must work towards the ilo gaining observer status in the world trade organisation with a view to improving interinstitutional dialogue. the importance of coordinated policy in international institutions should be highlighted, corporate social responsibility should be developed and companies should be encouraged to use appropriate means and good practices. in this context, i refer to the oecd guidelines. the important role of educational institutions and the media in informing people about the effects of globalisation should be emphasised. i also find the idea of setting up a parliamentary group to deal with the coordination and consistency of global economic, social and environmental policies and to develop integrated supervision of the most important international organisations interesting. the debate on the commission's report and my report has produced a number of amendments, not all of which concern the social dimension of globalisation. although i myself advocate that these reports should focus on the social aspects of globalisation, i understand my colleagues who wish to highlight other aspects in this context. this has led to amendments on agricultural policy, environmental aspects, oil and gas trade, etc. there are also some amendments which are completely out of touch with reality and which belong more to the history of socialism than to the context of the modern welfare state, and i do not support them. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the commission for producing a very good document and to thank the colleagues who have made a significant contribution to the european parliament's report on the social dimension of globalisation. (applause from the left) )
as a supporter of further enlargement of the european union, i agree in principle with the commission's report. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. the conclusions stressed on several occasions that individual countries interested in membership of the european union would have to fulfil all the conditions. i think that this request is justified and also fair, because it puts all the countries interested in joining the european union on an equal footing. but i am convinced, as some of my colleagues have already said, that the european union itself must fulfil the conditions for further enlargement. i personally cannot imagine that the enlarged union could function successfully without first adopting a constitution or otherwise adopting the necessary amendments to the existing treaties. in the interests of clarity, i support the enlargement of the union, but at the same time i think that the european commission should also, in such reports on the enlargement of the european union, specifically stress the importance of its further consolidation. i have the commissioner before me, and i would like to ask him a question in conclusion about kosovo, which he is paying particular attention to. recently, slovenian president drnovšek has launched an initiative for kosovo's independence. the initiative, which i consider valuable, also sets out certain substantive conditions for achieving independence. i'm asking if he's aware of this initiative and how he's commenting on it, if he wants it at all.
on behalf of the group of the european people's party and the european democrats, i will speak on the financial resources for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations. in our group we are in favour of the collection of funds on the basis of the polluter pays principle, and at the same time we are in favour of the principle that there should be sufficient funds, within the time limits laid down by the decommissioning programmes of the member states. the funds must be collected until the end of the plant's expected life and must be used for the intended purpose at the same time. the management of the funds must be transparent, while their use must be in line with european competition law. for our group, a delay in decomposition due to lack of funds is unacceptable, but a planned delay is acceptable, since in this case it is the time during which radioactive decay takes place that reduces the radioactivity of the materials. this reduces the workers' exposure to radiation. we also have a responsibility towards the younger generations, and we need to find an appropriate agreement at european level on some kind of monitoring and control of these financial funds. however, we must be aware that this is a matter of finding the right balance between the competences of the individual member states and the european union, in accordance with the euratom treaty. the document under consideration is intended to give nuclear power plants a competitive edge on other power plants. as we treat them separately, we must be really careful not to impose on them a burden that other power plants are not subject to. i believe, mr commissioner, that we must monitor at european level the european behaviour, the implementation of the commitments and the international standards of the member states and the countries that will become members - bulgaria and romania. at the same time, i think we must also monitor closely the countries that have started negotiations. by this i mean croatia, which, with its partial ownership of the krško nuclear power plant (which is located in slovenia), has similar obligations as other nuclear countries.
if the aim of this directive was to introduce standards for the humane trapping of animals, that objective has not been achieved. it does not take into account the latest scientific knowledge, is contrary to certain other parts of european legislation and cannot alleviate the suffering of trapped wild animals. given the psychological and behavioural development of mammals, the main concern with regard to the traps to be used to kill a captured animal is that the time to unconsciousness or death is significantly too long. however, it maintains that the international agreement concluded between the eu and canada and the russian federation, the environmental part of which this directive seeks to transpose into european law, is one of the first two to explicitly address the issue of wildlife welfare. however, that agreement is primarily concerned with facilitating trade in furs. i would point out to the opinions on article 5 that the agreement even blocks the efforts of those countries which have already introduced hunting rules above international standards. if the current standards are based only on the lowest common denominators, the agreement will not encourage the contracting parties to consider developing more humane standards.
the division of batteries into three categories proposed in the common position seems to me to be a reasonable compromise. given the current non-replaceability of some cadmium batteries, it would not be appropriate to ban them completely for the time being, as good results have been achieved in the past period in the collection and recycling of some of them, in particular industrial ones. a total ban on heavy metals is reasonable for portable batteries, which are very likely to end up in landfills. with the minimum targets for the collection of waste batteries and accumulators, for which 25% after 6 years seems to be a feasible target, it seems to me a reasonable proposal to test the feasibility of a second, 10-year target in the enlarged european union in the meantime. this would be based on real experience gained over many years in 25 countries, which now have marked differences in collection and recycling systems. to that end, a verification system should be established.
climate change poses a threat to both the world's population and the environment. at the same time, europe is increasingly dependent on imported fossil fuels, which has a significant impact on its energy security. the european union therefore faces two major challenges in the energy sector: how to reduce import dependence and how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in line with the commitments of the kyoto protocol and beyond. in both cases, we can use the untapped potential of energy efficiency. when drafting the energy end-use efficiency directive, we took one of two approaches. the first approach would have chosen somewhat more ambitious indicative targets, the second less ambitious, very realistically achievable binding targets. however, i consider that the present proposal contains a combination of both approaches, indicative and very realistic objectives. i wish we were a little more ambitious. i think it makes sense to have some binding goals. i also think that higher targets for the public sector would be a good example for the private sector. however, i am aware that the current european reality is somewhat bitter, that we cannot and do not know how to reach an agreement and that we do not have the support for our work. therefore, we must be especially careful to define goals in a way that enables them to be achieved. only then can the directive encourage individual countries and individuals to implement appropriate measures. the confidence of the public in the usefulness of the contents of the european legal system must be improved, and the reputation of the european union must also be enhanced by the directive. the proposal for member states to produce three reports on energy efficiency and for the implementation of commitments to be closely monitored requires more work and greater administrative burden. however, only such an approach is responsible and serious and can produce the appropriate results. mr. commissioner, i have to ask you to respect my wishes. i welcome the objective you have set as the most important of this mandate and i support the directive on energy end-use efficiency. i believe that this directive is an excellent example of the added value that can be created by joint european action, and that this does not only mean financial resources. transparency, the free exchange of information and the development of good practices in this field across europe are essential to achieve the objectives set.
knowledge is the competitive advantage of the european union and we are responsible for the development of a knowledge-based society. the european union can only respond successfully to global change in a unified way by harnessing knowledge, innovation and creativity at european level. this is the essence of the lisbon strategy. all 25 member states of the european union have committed themselves to achieving the objectives of this strategy. of course, its implementation requires adequate financial resources, both in the financial perspective and in the annual budget. this is why a development budget is so important for the common european future. the 2006 budget is not only important for the next year, but is crucial in the event that we fail to reach agreement on the future financial perspective. so i would like to see a budget that is much more development-oriented. it still has the largest share of the appropriations for agriculture and structural measures, within which agriculture is again to be found. the 2006 budget, despite the increase compared with the 2005 budget, is the least balanced item on the internal policies and thus the development part of european policies. the ceiling set by the financial perspective is only reached for rural development, domestic policies remain below the threshold by more than 2%. i remain realistic, however, and i would like to congratulate the european union negotiators on their persistence in their priorities and on the gains they have made. the increase in funding, albeit lower than we would like, for programmes of major importance to the lisbon strategy is important and says a lot about the direction we have set for the future. this means that, in the event of a failure of the negotiations on the financial perspective, european funds will be spent in a more development-oriented way than in the luxembourg and uk proposals for 2007-13.
