mr president, i would like to thank you. as we now discuss kyoto, the small island nations are preparing for their conference on climate problems that are forgotten on the other side of the world, despite the threat of expulsion of their entire people because of the destroyed environment. 15 large icebergs are floating up to new zealand. winters are 40 days shorter in my hometown than when i was a kid. almost all the glaciers are melting. more storms are blowing, as was evident over northern europe last weekend. you can't ignore the effects any longer. while not every storm and damage can be blamed on climate change, an increase in frequency is a sure consequence of man's lack of responsibility. the eu must now focus on the problems facing the world today. we cannot be satisfied with seminars and figures, but must take serious action in legislative decisions that have a concrete impact. then let us show you the way. the commission, only you, have the right to propose the minimum tax on fossil fuels. the introduction of a carbon tax on flights within the eu, you don't have to wait. it also introduced a climate levy on imports from countries which do not meet the kyoto targets. i think that's gonna give the bush regime a boost, especially if progressive states get exemptions. but kyoto is not enough, we don't have to wait until 2012 to realize that. we must now draw up an action plan to reduce emissions by at least 30% by 2020. we already know that this is the least we can do for the raw material needs of future generations and the raw material needs of poor countries and a stable climate.
the committee on employment and social affairs has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you. in the committee on employment and social affairs we were in a large majority in favour of the draft new constitution. we did not do it because we thought the proposal was perfect in all its parts, we would like more decisions by qualified majority in the social field. i myself would like to see the possibility of cross-border trade union rights. we did so because this proposal in the social field is better than the present proposal. we must not make the best the enemy of the good when we consider the proposal for a new constitution. let me give you some examples of improvements. firstly, the objective of full employment. it is the first time that we have this objective in any treaty in the new constitution. secondly, the social clause in the third section, which obliges the union to meet the social objectives in all areas of competence. thirdly, the fundamental rights of the charter of civil rights, which also includes trade union rights. fourthly, the role of the social partners is strengthened by recognising the importance of social dialogue and the social tripartite. fifthly, the balance between employment policy and macroeconomic policy is emphasised. sixthly, the legal basis for services of general economic interest. seventhly, the possibility of initiative by the citizens of europe. the draft new constitution makes the eu more open, more efficient and more democratic. for us who defend the social model, it is quite easy to support the proposal for a new constitution because it introduces a long series of improvements which will make it much easier to develop the social model in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the worst sentence in the constitution, which goes against the basic idea of the coal and steel union, is: 'member states shall undertake to improve progressively their military capabilities.' if the aim had been simply to reduce the defence budget through efficiency, it would have been so. the obvious aim now becomes to increase the eu's military clout. we're moving from disarmament to rearmament. if we combine this with the text that 'the union's relations with the outside world are aimed at affirming and promoting its values and interests', we are back to a 500-year-old colonial policy. it may worry the world, who remembers the last time we tried to spread our civilization with the help of the army. it may bring peace to us, but it brings trouble to the earth. this is not a text for the future, it is a return to the old imperialism and colonialism. i'll pass on that one.
in writing. the peace programme has a justification as an internal concern of the union. however, the actors with the main and ultimate responsibility for achieving a consolidation of the peace process are ireland and the united kingdom. it is crucial for junilistan that the financial support is not used as a form of 'structural support' but is used to bring about concrete and real improvements that promote a positive development of the peace process in northern ireland.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. five years ago, there were a few of us in this house who wanted to revive the spinellis crocodile club. we then set up a federalist cross-party group with the aim of working towards a european constitution. a lot of people smiled a little bit of sympathy back then. in my home country, sweden, i was patted on the head when i spoke of the need for a common text that clearly states what we stand for, why we do it and how we work. today, no one is laughing anymore and the idea of a european constitution is not very controversial. most of them are in. through the convention and hard work, not least here in the european parliament, we have today a proposal for a european constitution. it is a fantastic step forward and it makes the eu more open, more democratic, more active, puts the citizen at the centre and simplifies decision-making. the resolution by richard corbett and íñigo méndez de vigo is a very good and educational statement of the benefits of the new constitution and is a document that can actually be used in the campaign, as it is so pedagogically written. of course, much could have been better, many colleagues have spoken about this. personally, i would have liked to see a clearer delimitation of the eu's powers. it would have been reasonable to concentrate on a few fewer issues at eu level with so many members, in order to be more effective there. i would also have liked to see the permanent president not in the council but in the commission. finally, i regret that the convention did not discuss the question of the seat of the european parliament. we must put an end to this commuting between strasbourg and brussels. it is expensive and inefficient and as long as it continues, the citizens will never have full confidence in this institution. there will be new times, we will be able to bring in new reforms and take further steps in the future for the next convention and the next constitution. first it must be ratified, and on the whole it is a very good proposal. it is a step forward for european democracy and for our citizens. the opponents should point out that the alternative is the treaty of nice, which in no way increases democracy within the eu. nor does it make it easier for us to work with so many members. i therefore look forward with great enthusiasm to the debate which is now taking place and is already taking place in the various member states and to being out in the streets and squares with you to defend the european constitution.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a constitution should define the rules of the game of politics and the rights of citizens in a democracy. a constitution should not determine the content of policy. social policy, taxation, energy policy, police policy, alcohol policy are all things that citizens should be involved in shaping together in the democratic process of each country. when the will of the people changes, these conditions can be changed in the country. the proposal before us is something quite different. it is an expression of the political class's own ambitions for the european project. it regulates in detail, it deals with tourism and agriculture, it legitimises a corporate society, it forces each member state into a monetary union, it points to the concentration of power and a technocratic europe. what is presented here as a constitution is an attempt by the political establishment to usurp the democratic right of the european peoples to shape their own future. the junilista therefore rejects this proposal.
commission. as the honourable member has pointed out, the proposed directive on services in the internal market is at the heart of our efforts to reform the european economy. services account for approximately 70% of eu gdp and employment. the removal of internal market barriers in the area of services, as foreseen by the proposal, is essential for meeting the growth and employment targets which lie at the heart of the lisbon agenda. the potential economic opportunities arising from this proposal are indeed huge. this has been underlined by recent dutch economic research which shows that implementation of the proposal in its current form could result in an increase in bilateral trade and direct foreign investment in commercial services by 15% to 35%. the commission has proposed a horizontal directive for several different reasons. first, a broad range of services are dealt with because many of the barriers identified are common to various service activities. the most efficient way to address these barriers is in a horizontal way. secondly, a large scale and detailed harmonisation process through sectoral directives would be unnecessary, unrealistic and inconsistent with better regulation and subsidiarity principles. thirdly, the services proposal takes into account the specificity of certain activities, proposes specific harmonisation where this is deemed necessary and adopts a phased approach to implementation. it is clear that the proposal has provoked a great deal of discussion. however, this is exactly what a proposal this ambitious and far-reaching can be expected to do. it shows that the proposal is addressing some very important questions. at the same time, this also means that there is a lot of work to be done to achieve a common goal. the country of origin approach is a central element of the proposal, as far as the cross-border supply of services is concerned. it eliminates the problem of cross-border services being subject to a multitude of different rules. this will stimulate the offer of cross-border services and improve the competitiveness of the eu economy. the country of origin approach is in particular essential for smes, who do not have the means to establish a subsidiary or an office in another member state and therefore can export their know-how only by the temporary cross­border provision of services. i wish to note, however, that the country of origin approach does not apply for services provided through a fixed commercial presence in the host country. at the same time, i wish to reiterate that the country of origin approach does not operate in isolation. over and above the specific harmonisation foreseen for certain activities, the proposal also foresees the further development of administrative cooperation between member state authorities and administrations. this harmonisation and cooperation will generate the degree of confidence between member states required for the effective application of the country of origin approach. finally, a number of derogations are foreseen for services demonstrating a particular sensitivity because of the need to protect consumers, public health or public security, or where the current divergence of member states' legislation does not allow the application of the country of origin approach. as pointed out in my earlier reply, the commission is confident that the proposal is the best way to allow the economic potential of the services sector to materialise, in the interest of our workers, our consumers and our companies.
commission. the country of origin approach which lies at the heart of the services directive will allow for the circumstances mr crowley has outlined. as i said in my reply, it will allow companies to operate in another member state without having to go through a multitude of further tests. that is the basis of the country of origin principle as it would apply to the circumstances outlined.
commission. i welcome mr mitchell's contribution, but would like to point out that the matters referred to come under the remit of my colleague, mr spidla. mr mitchell has gone into further problems relating to growth within the european community. the lisbon process is about addressing these matters and, as you will be aware, mr barroso has made the lisbon agenda his top priority for our period in office. i note what the honourable member has said regarding access by women to the labour market and his comments about childcare. i am sure other colleagues in the commission will address these matters.
i would also like to welcome commissioner mccreevy. it is clear that not everyone has understood the need for the services directive. i therefore think it would be appropriate, and i will also ask the commissioner if it would not also be appropriate, to draw up a collection of examples which clearly show how, in concrete terms, businesses have been prevented from contributing to economic development. for example, a french company that wants to produce gravestones is stopped by germans and is subject to a fine. can the commissioner come back with a list of all these problems, which we have seen in solvit and in other contexts, which companies are facing and which are hindering economic development, a concrete list?
mr president, i welcome the presidency and congratulate it on its priorities. i have four questions.
in writing. the moderate delegation voted today in favour of the report on the treaty establishing a constitution for europe, a6-0070/2004. we believe that the constitutional treaty should respect the institutional balance. we therefore reject the proposal to introduce an elected president of the council and to elect the president of the commission by the european parliament. we also reject the procedure provided for in article iv-444, commonly known as the corridor, because we consider it essential that treaty amendments be ratified by each member state before they enter into force. the constitution makes the basic rules of cooperation in the european union clearer. we support reinforcements in the area of subsidiarity and the instruments which reaffirm and further develop the role of national parliaments in european cooperation. the law of the union, as it has been applied and applied, is defined in terms of the relationship between eu law and national law, that is to say, community law takes precedence over national law, but always taking into account the constitutional traditions of the member states. the limits of eu competence are also clarified and the legislative procedure simplified. we therefore support the proposed constitutional treaty.
in writing. we have voted against this report. our definitions of 'subsidiarity' and 'superstate' are clearly different from those of the rapporteurs. we define subsidiarity so that political decisions are taken as close as possible to the citizens and that the issues to be decided at the appropriate level are decided by the national parliaments and not by the eu institutions. our definition of a 'superstate' is a european union state where decisions are normally taken by majority in the council, where not all member states are represented in the commission and where the european parliament has a vote on all matters. the union is no longer a federation of states, as we believe it should be, but a federal state, a federation. a common foreign and asylum policy, a rapid reaction force for action in the outside world, an increased eu budget by giving the eu taxation rights and more are all strengthening this political power of the 'superstate'. this draft constitution should be replaced by a new draft intergovernmental treaty which puts the political responsibilities of national parliaments at the centre. religious issues should not be included in the eu treaty texts. we protest that the majority of the european parliament is putting 340 000 euros of taxpayers' money into a spectacle during the debate on this report to launch the campaign for the adoption of the 'european foundations' in the member states.
in writing. i have decided to withdraw from my group and will vote against the report on the treaty establishing a constitution for europe. i believe that the draft constitution means that the eu is moving from being an intergovernmental cooperation based on treaties to a state based on a constitution. i believe that the proposal strengthens the primacy of eu law over national law, that it takes more power away from the member states and that it gives more power to the larger countries than to the smaller ones. this is something i'm against. i voted in favour of sweden joining the eu in the 1994 referendum, and i strongly support the idea of international cooperation to solve common problems. there are important tasks which we must carry out jointly, not least in the areas of the environment, human trafficking and social dumping. but i am against the union's current direction towards greater supranationality. i want european cooperation at the intergovernmental level.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when the tsunami came, it affected the poor and the rich alike. everyone was running for their lives, and the children were the ones who were hit the hardest. the nightmare of not being able to protect their children affected thousands of people. we all now have a responsibility to give them our support and listen to their needs. i would ask you, mr president, to convey our deepest thanks to the people of thailand and other affected countries. they fulfilled our ideals of humanity, humanism and solidarity. they unselfishly and without discrimination helped all victims regardless of culture, religion, or color. and not least, many of my countrymen received great support. it shows that these concepts are universal and not christian or european. we can begin to fulfil the same ideal by providing real support to the affected countries and establishing trade solidarity, fighting poverty and hunger and making our rescue services help each other more effectively.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the tragedy in asia is still unfathomable to many of us. we share a common grief, regardless of nationality, and our compassion grows out of this solidarity. let us use this feeling of solidarity to make better priorities for the future. environmental scientists claim that the disaster could have been avoided, if not entirely avoided, with much less loss of life and property if the coral reefs and mangrove forests had been allowed to remain. if human security were the primary priority over military security, we would probably not have to experience the death and destruction that we have now. if governments made some objective analysis of what threatens not only their countries but all mankind and the earth and prepared for it, there would be warning systems and the rescue work could be better planned. rich and powerful nations are ready to wage war, including nuclear war, at a moment's notice. but there is no warning or warning for poor people in asia. this is while the world is spending grotesque sums on its war on terrorism, a small problem in terms of the number of lives lost and a war that is currently only producing more terrorism. is there no serious attention being paid to the problems of poverty and ecological security? let's learn sometime.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the indian ocean tsunami disaster is in many ways a turning point in modern world history. for the first time, we have a real wave of sympathy for people who have been affected from pretty much the whole world, not just a part of it. cynics point out that this is related to the fact that there were so many tourists from rich countries around the indian ocean when this happened, who were also affected. that is true, but it should be remembered that this also shows that tourism, like trade in goods and services, does indeed bring together the people of the world and make us realize that we belong together. i am, however, uncomfortable with the fact that the eu seems particularly interested in presenting its positions in the face of this tragedy. if we look at this, we find that it is warning systems that are needed, not the eu. it's a global issue, closest to the un. money does not have to be channelled through the eu, it comes directly from the countries and from the citizens. we have the question of coordinating operational assistance, which is the main task of the un. where's what? rapid action to evacuate citizens of eu countries; the problem was not that the eu lacked a policy, but that some countries, like italy, did very well, while others, like my own country, did poorly. we should not try to use tragedies for eu purposes, but look at what the eu actually has to contribute. it's probably a consular matter.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to begin by expressing my deep sympathy to all those around the world who have been affected by the asian tsunami. at the moment, the focus must be on emergency response to alleviate human suffering, care for the injured, identify the dead, be on hand for the bereaved and facilitate and support reconstruction. as decision-makers, we must also take our long-term responsibility. the earthquake disaster in southeast asia is undoubtedly greater than the earthquake that struck iran last year. the lack of effective disaster preparedness is as palpable now as it was then. for rescue operations to be effective, there must be a well-coordinated international organization that can respond to crises such as earthquakes, floods or terrorist attacks. the eu should therefore have a rescue service that operates both within and outside europe's borders and that always sends aid immediately, whether it is spanish, swedish or somali victims. what could be more important in international cooperation like the eu than saving lives? a european emergency response service would reinforce and complement the member states' own emergency response and civilian crisis management and, of course, work closely with the un. the important thing is that it has a fixed structure and is given responsibility for analysing and planning the need for future rescue operations, planning and conducting joint exercises, coordinating and mobilizing resources for evacuation, care, transport of food, medicine, clothing and other relief materials in the crisis situation. i would urge the council to really set up such an eu rescue service. i hope that the commission will develop the civil crisis management responsibilities it already has today, so that we can take even greater responsibility in future disasters, for which i regret to say that we must prepare.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission's response was good, given the emergency preparedness organization we have today, but the disaster is cause for reflection. much could have been done differently, both at eu level and in the countries most affected. historically, the problem is that disaster preparedness has received too little attention in general. it is relatively easy to mobilize large sums of money from both the public and governments in an emergency situation. getting funds for disaster prevention and preparedness is difficult. for example, it has long been known that there was no warning system for the countries around the indian ocean, not only against tsunamis but also against other severe disasters, especially cyclones. nothing has been done by the governments concerned or by the various donors. it is really only bangladesh in the region that has drawn the conclusions of the risks and established effective preparedness. similarly, the civilian crisis force at eu level now being discussed could already have been established. this is not the first time the need for such a force has been demonstrated. the eu should act more coordinatedly in this area. coordination and cooperation are needed to set up this force, but also to organise all aid dispatches in an emergency situation. this is where the coordination is off. the un has the primary responsibility, but we know that the un does not have the capacity. a much better coordinated eu - i am talking about the commission and the member states - could have been very helpful in the emergency phase. it is something we must stake our future on. finally, the reconstruction. like many other speakers, i wish that the 350 million euros that mr barroso spoke of this morning were fresh money, not taken from the regular budget. if speed requires the use of funds already allocated, we should ensure that compensation is then made by means of a top-up. otherwise, asia as a region will lose €150 million in development aid. finally, i would like to address my final point to the commission. take seriously all the reports that show the bad ecological damage in the area before the disaster by improper exploitation. environmental considerations in reconstruction are vital to prevent further erosion of living conditions and to reduce the risk of new disasters.
for the group. mr president, i would like to thank you. the road community between the eu and the us is a large one. we have many historical ties and there is a great gratitude to the united states which has helped us many times. together we have a great responsibility to work for peace, democracy and human rights throughout the world and a common interest in close cooperation in the fight against terrorism, for global security, disarmament and the functioning of international institutions. it is no secret that there are deep differences of opinion on the war crimes tribunal, kyoto, multinational agreements, the treatment of prisoners at guantánamo, some trade issues and the death penalty. these are important issues for the eu and for our citizens, and they are always present in discussions with the united states. relations with iraq have also become very strained and we can debate for ever - and we have done so in this house - what went wrong, how and why. we must put this behind us and take responsibility together for the iraqi people to enjoy peace, security and democracy. the chances of a new start in the middle east peace process have also increased following the palestinian elections. here the eu and the us can play an important and constructive role together. we have a very important six months ahead of us. the two eu-us summits must lead to a new impetus in our relationship. together, we can accomplish much. it was nice to hear the luxembourg ambitions, even if the presidency is not wearing its headphones at the moment. we hope that the bush ii administration will realise that there is much to be gained from trusting cooperation with europe. the eu also has to make a great effort and that is why i am pleased with the constructive tone here. we need to formulate a clear short- and long-term strategy for what we want to achieve and how. a number of issues have been raised, but also how we are to set up a free trade area and a transatlantic parliamentary assembly. the eu has partnerships with most countries in the world. it is strange that we have such a fluffy agreement with this particular country, our very closest neighbour and our most important partner. i therefore look forward to what the presidency and the commission will present to parliament shortly.
in writing. we have voted in favour of today's resolution on climate change. we share the concern about the environmental impact of this project. but that does not mean that we are confident that the kyoto protocol is the solution to all problems. the complexity of climate change and its causes means that measures should also be questioned and subject to a more critical scrutiny than the resolution expresses.
in writing. global climate change is a major problem which we believe there are good reasons to address at international level. the kyoto protocol is an important step in this process. we are critical, however, of several phrases in the resolution. we do not believe that the european parliament should call on those countries which have not yet ratified the kyoto protocol to do so. we believe that each country should decide its position on this protocol at national level. we also oppose the commission and the member states emphasizing the need for climate protection in the context of dialogues with other countries. we believe that each member state should have the right to determine its own national position and to represent it in international negotiations. this safeguards the right of national initiative.
in writing. we support the rapid intervention of the international community to resolve the terrible humanitarian disaster in asia. the necessary resources must be prioritised, both at national and international level, to help people in need and to support reconstruction efforts. the eu shall not take funds from other aid operations to finance the tsunami relief. the appropriations shall be taken within the existing limits of the general budget of the european union. we believe that the eu member states should guarantee their share of the eur 1 billion loan from the european investment bank that should be offered to the affected countries. the un, with its long experience and global reach, is the best organization to coordinate humanitarian aid. the eu should therefore not compete with the un by creating new institutional arrangements.
in writing. we support several of the resolution's proposals, including enhanced economic cooperation between the eu and the us, ratification of the kyoto protocol and support for the international criminal court. however, we have chosen to abstain from voting on the resolution as a whole, as it is broadly aimed at strengthening the eu as a global actor in relation to the us and the rest of the world.
in writing. we are in favour of various forms of international aid to developing countries. we do not, however, believe that the european parliament has the competence to make recommendations on debt relief for developing countries. this issue should be addressed at national level as well as within the framework of existing international structures, such as the 'paris club'. we also note that money lent out immediately by the eu must be written off and therefore be entered in the accounts as a budgetary expenditure. for the reasons stated above, we have decided to vote against the proposed resolution.
in writing. i voted against because the resolution does not even achieve the objectives declared by the presidency. our amendments seeking to write off debts were voted down.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my mother always reminds me that the person who focuses on everything is out of focus. i therefore hope that the commission will dare to prioritise and focus on the most important thing, growth. creating growth is not a matter of magic. everyone knows what needs to be done and why europe is lagging behind, but few dare to talk about it. what is needed is not more power or more money for the eu; what is needed is political courage. it takes courage to stand up and implement a number of far-reaching reforms to get the competitiveness we need and to get away from the over-regulation and over-taxation of the economy. free trade is an important tool for growth. the eu should be the power in europe, and the strongest power in the world, fighting for a free world trade. the project we have built here is based on free trade and on creating peace, prosperity and freedom. it can be very useful in other parts of the world as well. unfortunately, the eu often does the opposite and instead creates new barriers to trade. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs duties'. the immorality of this was made all the more evident when in december the european union raised tariffs on perfumes and spices from countries such as thailand and sri lanka. the countries that have been hit by the flood disaster need trade to rebuild their countries on their own, and they certainly do not need new tariffs. that europe is also losing out on this policy and that it is immoral is becoming clearer than ever now that thailand is talking about refusing to buy the prestigious european airbus aircraft as a consequence of the trade policy which is imposing tariffs on fishermen in thailand. i would therefore urge the commission to do everything it can to be at the forefront of free trade and to try to go down in history as europe's most free trade-friendly commission.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission is proposing ambitious targets for next year's legislation. the problem is that, as usual, there are so many objectives that there is a risk that there will be no priority at all. i want to create a european union that is narrower but sharper, that does less but does better, that acts with force on issues of common interest, while leaving other issues to be decided at national, regional or local level. stable and sustainable growth is needed in europe. the eu's competitiveness needs to be improved, perhaps more than we think. today, the united states is discussing the growth that china is experiencing and is putting forward ambitious plans to reach those levels. we in europe are discussing the united states. in that sense, we are already several steps behind. europe has enormous growth potential which must be unleashed, but it requires rallying and prioritisation. otherwise, the lisbon process risks fulfilling groucho marx's claim that 'politics is the art of looking for problems, finding them everywhere, making the wrong diagnoses and applying the wrong remedies'. sustainable development is the basis for growth, and the programme is too weak in this respect. thirdly, free movement within the eu requires that people feel secure when they leave their home country for holidays, study or work in another member state. unfortunately, too many citizens today have been denied the right to a fair trial and safe treatment when they are suspected of a crime in another country. the common guarantees in this area are under way, but we have been waiting for this for so many years. it is important that these legal security issues be resolved so that people dare to use the four freedoms.
in writing. the junilista votes against the increase in appropriations compared with the council's original proposal. the creation and provision of digital content is most effectively addressed by the market or by decisions at member state level.
in writing. firstly, while welcoming the successful palestinian elections, the european parliament should stress the lack of democratic structures during arafat's time in power. it would also have been desirable to emphasize the lack of demands from the outside world for democratic reforms and the tacit support for the undemocratic development of palestine which was allowed under arafat. the palestinian presidential elections were further complicated by the desire of large groups to sabotage the elections and thus the democratic process. the resolution should also make clear demands on the new leadership to implement democratic reforms and clarify the palestinian authority's responsibility to prevent terrorist acts. at the same time, israel's legitimate right to security and to defend its people against terrorist attacks must be recognised. it is important to draw a distinction between the systematic attacks by palestinian terrorists on civilian targets and the actions of the israeli government against terrorists. the european parliament also called for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners.
in writing. the junilist supports the middle east peace process and hopes that the parties can soon agree on the roadmap for peace. it requires the leadership of both israel and palestine to show statesmanship and political courage. the junilist believes that the united nations has the primary responsibility for mediating between its member states and for preventing and resolving conflicts. throughout history, we have seen that non-aligned countries have played an important role in this work within the united nations. although we support the main thrust of the resolution, we do not believe that the eu's role in foreign and security policy should be extended. we want to protect sweden's freedom of action and the united nations' unique position as an international peace organization.
in writing. this resolution deals with matters of the utmost importance. the concentration and extermination camps are among the most shameful and darkest episodes in european history. racism, extremism and historical revisionism must be condemned and vigorously opposed. the resolution stresses the need for this in a clear and clarifying manner. information campaigns and conferences are positive measures that can contribute to greater tolerance and a more humane society. however, we believe that these are primarily tasks for the un and the council of europe rather than the eu. the council of europe works with respect for democracy, human rights and the rule of law. the council of europe also has more members than the eu and is more pan-european in this sense. the curriculum of schools is a matter for the parliaments of the member states.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this week marks the three-year anniversary of ingrid betancourt's abduction by the colombian farc guerrillas. on 23 february 2002, ingrid betancourt, spokeswoman for my sister party in colombia and presidential candidate, was abducted on her way to seek a negotiated solution to the conflict between the government and the farc. the colombian government must stop seeking military funding. instead, it must sign a humanitarian agreement with the farc in line with the geneva convention so that ingrid and 3,000 other prisoners can be freed. i would be very grateful if you, mr president, could act on behalf of parliament and express our concern about human rights violations in the country.
mr president, i would like to thank you. president barroso, if you are going to break the working time directives, you can take comfort in the fact that it is in any case for the best of purposes, namely to discuss global justice and the role of civil society. in porto alegre, i was one of 155,000 delegates from 135 countries. at the same time, 20 heads of state and 70 ministers met in davos. but did they listen in davos? from a theoretical european perspective, one might think that free trade, capitalism and liberalisation are the solution to the problems of development. but the theory doesn't fit with the everyday lives of millions of people, and it's time we started to bring the theories into reality, not the other way around. it is time that trade becomes a tool for the people - not the other way around. we must stop demanding the liberalisation of water and other sensitive sectors as a counter-offer to countries for good treatment. barroso, when you meet bush and the eu heads of government, remind them of their 30-year-old promise to give 0.7 percent aid. this aid would not even be necessary if the profits from production in the developing countries were to remain there to a greater extent. barroso, you are most welcome to the next world social forum, somewhere in africa. i can lend you some fair-labelled organic clothing so you can attend one day in cognito, as a regular delegate and really experience the atmosphere there, without the interference of security guards. the very joy and spirit of cooperation, without hierarchical structures, that exists between everyone in the world social forum, that is a hope for the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this debate is about trust and confidence. yet in every member state, in every prison, in every detention centre, there are people who feel that they have received a fair trial because they do not know the language, because the evidence has not been assessed correctly, because of the brutal treatment by the police or in detention. this is despite the fact that we have rules in place in the european convention on human rights and civil liberties, articles 6 and 13, and above all perhaps in rules that belong to community law within the eu. if people are to dare to use the four freedoms, we must also have safety rules not only for goods and capital but also for people. the present rules require that national remedies be exhausted in order to assert a right. a court may request an advisory opinion during the trial, but not an individual. we must therefore introduce the possibility for an individual to request personal inquiry or special representation so that individuals have the same rights as courts. only then can we talk about trust and confidence.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the common legal area is based on mutual recognition. we recognise each other's judgments, and then we must be able to trust the quality of the justice systems, trust equal treatment, trust the functioning of due process, trust fair trials with lawyers and interpretation when necessary. let's compete upward in the quality of justice. thank you, antonio costa, for a good report. then there's the exchange of information, which is more sensitive. antonio di pietro has improved the proposal, but i would like to stress three points. first of all: the quality of data protection in law enforcement shall be equivalent to that in the internal market area before the exchange is applied. secondly: the edps shall give an opinion on sensitive issues. thirdly: in addition to informing the member states of the use of the data, the individual shall also be informed of the information disclosed. we have a commissioner who i know listens and understands these questions. i hope that commissioner franco frattini will include these three elements in the future when it comes to increasing data protection to ensure that we get the same quality of data protection in the area of law enforcement that we already have in the internal market. i really hope that franco frattini will continue to do so and i would like to thank him for the work he has already done in the area of data storage and i believe that we will also see the effects of this in this area.
member of the commission. mr president, it is a great pleasure to be here for my first debate with you in plenary, and the subject could not have been better chosen. it is no coincidence that today's agenda started with the commission working paper. the president of the commission underlined how important the work programme is for this term of the commission. mr frattini took the lead by explaining the priority we attach to criminal matters and justice. and now it is for me as competition commissioner to explain our position on what is in mr jonathan evans' report. i welcome the support of the european parliament, and i acknowledge the support you have given in the past to the european commission, and especially to mr monti, as you rightly emphasise. there is no doubt that i have inherited a great legacy from mr monti. the greatest tribute i can pay him is to continue his work and build on it. under the leadership of president barroso, the european commission has recently proposed a new partnership for growth and jobs. competition policy, as mr evans rightly mentioned, has a crucial role to play here. competition is the central driving-force for competitiveness and growth, and we badly need that growth. that was clearly stated this afternoon by speakers from both right and left. if we are to deliver on the fundamental social and environmental objectives which are at the heart of our european values, then economic growth is a must. there are three ways competition policy can contribute to partnership. firstly, later this spring we will launch a debate on reviewing the state aid rules within the overall objective of 'less and better', which here means better focused aid. aid should be concentrated where it can add most value: for innovation, research and development, risk capital and the development of those regions lagging furthest behind. secondly, we will maintain a fair and firm approach to enforcement and will remain tough on cartels. there is no doubt about that. that was also mr monti's approach. as the report highlights, it is not acceptable to let the global advantages of the single market be undermined by cartels and other unfair business practices among a handful of undertakings. thirdly, we will look at new ways of promoting competition in the internal market, by using sector investigations and competition screening to uncover and tackle the remaining, often hidden, regulatory and private barriers to free competition. in taking these priorities forward, i will take account of the helpful observations presented in the report before us. i can assure you of my commitment to ensuring an ongoing and constructive dialogue on competition issues with this house.
for the group. mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to express my appreciation for the report by mr jonathan evans and its conclusions. i would also like to express my appreciation for the contribution made by neelie kroes and to underline that i am one of those who look forward with great anticipation to the further work she can contribute. i think we should be aware that the driving force in the european union at the moment, in the development and modernisation of our society, is competition. we have the external competitive pressure resulting from globalisation and the internal competitive pressure which has been reinforced by enlargement and the single market. it unleashes a lot of dynamism and power in european society, not just in terms of development, growth and new jobs. i also believe that in practice this is the most powerful tool for european integration in terms of the cross-border spread of ideas, goods and services. this is what is happening right now, and i think there is a risk that we are underestimating it. i would therefore ask the commissioner to try to highlight this dimension of what competition brings in future competition reports. it is not just economic, but also european cooperation in its most concrete sense. i believe that we have a duty to spread the conditions for competition to new areas. it is the knowledge society with research, education, health care. this is the case for energy and telecommunications markets, as jonathan evans points out in his report. i would also like to emphasize to the commissioner the part of the report which deals with the importance of also creating good conditions for european businesses to compete globally, that in competitive assessments one should look at the whole internal market and not at national and local submarkets. the companies of the future will require a large domestic market. that is what the internal market is for and that is how competition is to develop.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have now heard two speakers in favour and, according to the rules, we are entitled to hear one speaker against. first, let us agree that everyone wants to provide the fastest possible assistance in the most efficient way possible. i would, however, like to oppose urgent procedure. it was a nice idea to export old fishing boats, but it's not working well. the fao has not yet received any lists of the vessels that the countries want. they also warn of problems with faulty equipment and overcapacity. this has to be worked out first. in addition, a conference of regional fisheries organisations met last week in sumatra with representatives from indonesia, thailand and sri lanka, among others. they're opposed to the export of old ships. they would rather have support to build up their local shipyards and fishing fleets. in order to have a functioning and well-adapted proposal, it should be dealt with in the usual way so that local considerations can be better taken into account. we need more dialogue with the fao and local fishermen before we are ready to vote.
member of the commission. mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the two authors of the two reports under discussion, mr goebbels and mr karas, and all the members of parliament who in the committee on economic and monetary affairs have contributed to the drafting of the text we are discussing today in this plenary session. i must say that i substantially agree with the diagnosis in both reports. in the case of the so-called lisbon strategy, five years after its adoption by the european council, we can all agree to share again the objectives and the pillars of that strategy, to ratify our agreement with them, and to regret the delay in the implementation of the policies necessary to move towards the fulfilment of those objectives. in the case of the state of public finances and the existing framework for monitoring the development of budgets and public accounts - the stability and growth pact - we identify ourselves with the reference values, with the pillars set out in the treaty. the development of public finances in the economic and monetary union over the years of the pact has been moving in the right direction, but as mr karas said, there are too many countries, currently ten countries, in a situation of excessive deficit; there are member states of the union with public debt levels in relation to their gross domestic product above the reference value set in the treaty, 60%, and therefore there is also a need for reflection and the search for improvements in the implementation of the pact, and for strengthening the instruments available to bring this fiscal governance framework to fruition. i would like to make the commission's point of view on the first of these reports. it is clear that the european union, and in particular the euro area, has a lower growth rate than our competitors, than the other economic regions of the industrialized world, not to mention emerging countries which have growth rates of 6, 7 and even 10 per cent. this low growth creates a situation of high unemployment and a lack of jobs and raises serious doubts about the sustainability of our social model and, in general, about the sustainability of our social model. structural reforms are therefore necessary and, in this respect, as the honourable members know, the commission has set out in its communication of 2 february a series of guidelines for moving towards a review and improvement of the implementation of the lisbon strategy, setting out a series of priorities around three axes: firstly, making europe a more attractive place to invest and work, by extending and developing the internal market, improving regulations, ensuring open and competitive markets, extending and improving european infrastructure networks; secondly, improving knowledge and innovation as basic factors for growth, by increasing and improving research and development, facilitating innovation and the adoption of information technologies, and contributing to the creation of a strong european industrial base; thirdly, pursuing the objective of creating more and better quality employment by establishing more and better policies, attracting more people to the labour market, modernizing the social protection systems, investing in more and better adapting enterprises, and investing in more human capital. it is in this spirit that we can regain the momentum that the creators, the founders of the lisbon strategy - if i may use the expression - had in mind five years ago, and make up for lost time; we must also act with greater capacity for ownership at national level, because many of the actions needed to bring the lisbon strategy to fruition are undoubtedly dependent on national competences. the commission considers that the role of macroeconomic policy in this respect is to support growth. but increasing growth potential is a basic function of structural reforms, we cannot rely on macroeconomic policy to achieve it. that task should be entrusted to structural reforms such as those included in the list presented by the european commission. with regard to the second of the reports, 'stability and growth pact, the state of public finances', which mr karas has just presented, i should like to point out that the negotiations in the framework of ecofin are progressing quite satisfactorily: at last week's meeting there was further progress. there will be further meetings, of the eurogroup on 7 march and of ecofin on 8 march, which will be very useful in bringing us closer to an agreement. i am optimistic about the chances of reaching an agreement at the european council on 22 and 23 march, which will maintain the principles and reference values of the treaty and the pillars of the framework for fiscal and budgetary discipline set out in the treaty, which we must all respect. the instruments should be improved with this agreement so that the governance of the stability and growth pact avoids the failures we have seen in the experience of recent years, helps countries with excessive deficit problems to regain an adjustment path, to meet the treaty reference values, both in terms of deficit and debt, to put more emphasis on sustainability and the long term, because the challenge of ageing populations is approaching, and at the same time to better link budgetary discipline which remains a necessary element for growth and the strategy of growth, more jobs, sustainability, which is the lisbon strategy, because they are two interlinked strategies. macroeconomic balance is a necessary condition for growth, but more policy is needed: structural reforms are needed. it will be very positive if at the march european council these two important issues, which parliament is discussing today, which the commission is discussing and which the council is discussing, coincide so that we can reach a forward-looking agreement better linking the two strategies and, of course, keeping the principles of both clear. one, more sustainability, more social cohesion, more growth, more employment and more competitiveness; the other, better budgetary discipline and more sustainable public finances as a necessary basis for economic stability and to create the conditions that all investors, all wealth creators, require to look to the future with more confidence.
for the group. mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would say that the public deficits in a number of countries are a symptom of the problems in the national economies. we will not solve that problem by allowing the deficit to increase. in fact, we risk eroding the stable basis for growth, which is low interest rates. we risk draining the stimulus to households that low interest rates are, and we weaken the prerequisite for long-term growth that low interest rates are. it is therefore important to stress, as the commissioner did in his speech, the importance of structural reforms. it is europe's economies that need flexibility, not the common rules we have. it is by creating a common framework for businesses in operation that we can create new wealth and new jobs. it is regrettable that the socialist group in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy chose to abstain when we voted on robert goebbels' report. the report now contains a number of concrete proposals to create a stronger growth force in europe. we believe that there must be better conditions for work, but not, as robert goebbels said earlier, by increasing people's working hours. we want to create better conditions for working for a longer period of time, for being able to work more at different stages of life, whenever one wants to, and for more people to be able to have a job. this requires changes in business, research and the internal market. we are in the midst of a transformation that is significant because of the competition that we see. the important task now is to make europe's industry even stronger by increasing competition. it is about the services directive, it is about deepening competition in more areas. that is our task and then we will have better growth, more jobs and the best wages in europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. growth in the eu area is clearly below what is potentially possible. unemployment is high, the eu has a surplus in its foreign exchange balance, and inflation is below the monetary policy target. as the report emphasises, there is a great need for structural reforms. the report, however, places too little emphasis on the need for a more expansionary policy in several countries. one reason for the excessive policy is the design of the stability and growth pact. in my view, it is misconstrued, leading to too strict policies in some countries. the problem is that too much attention is being paid to the budget deficit. instead, the focus should be on the debt ratio. a country with a debt ratio below 60 percent of gdp and keeping its inflation rate within 2 percent will have a declining debt ratio if it grows in real terms by one percentage point or more and if the budget deficit reaches 3 percent. if a country grows by five percent and has two percent inflation, its nominal gdp grows by seven percent. the budget deficit could therefore be 7%, and the debt ratio is stable in the event of such a deficit. such a country is not a burden on the euro area. debt growth is stable and therefore sustainably defensible. the country should be likely to have a good credit rating and should not pose a credit risk to the euro area as a whole. such a budget deficit is tenably defensible. a limited deficit of 3% means that the government debt as a percentage of gdp is continuously falling. as a debt ratio of 60% of gdp is economically reasonable, there is no reason to impose such a financial restriction on the country. for newly emerging countries, it is natural to have significant exchange rate and capital import deficits. private savings may not be enough, but the government also has a budget deficit. the bottom line is: allow countries with debt ratios below 60% of gdp and inflation under control to grow faster and pursue more expansionary policies. this will provide a stimulus for the whole of the eu. i recommend a change in the stability pact in this direction.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to express my regret that the ppe-de leader, gunnar hökmark, has left the debate. the proposal which the committee has put forward is unacceptable to us social democrats for three reasons. firstly, there is no need for a general extension of working time. what we need is more people in work, not a general extension of working hours. secondly, an overall tax cut in europe will not solve the problems. how is it that the nordic countries with the highest tax burdens have the highest growth rates in the eu? it is a sign that the ppe-de group is on the move. thirdly, we need balance in the lisbon process. as it has now become in the proposal before us, it is even worse than the commission and it emphasises only the first pillar of the lisbon process when reciprocity between the pillars is needed. structural reforms are needed - i share that view - but they must be carried out with social responsibility and with the participation of the social partners, which is the most important thing. gunnar hökmark comes from sweden, where his party is now trying to get close to the social democrats. they're not talking about any tax cuts or any extension of working hours at home in the national debate. but they do here. sweden has had a highly successful economic policy in the post-war period with one exception, 1991-1994. at that time gunnar hökmark was one of the leading politicians in sweden. it would be a pity if the ppe-de group were to adopt this neoliberal policy and make it its own. then we have political differences. we social democrats want a balanced policy and not a neoliberal policy. neoliberal policies are not the solution to europe's problems.
in writing. we, inger segelström, jan andersson, anna hedh, ewa hedkvist petersen and åsa westlund, voted in favour of the report, but would like to make clear that we have a different view on one issue. we cannot support the second sentence of paragraph 1 (f) which recommends that the council should bring closer the national rules on the handling and evaluation of evidence. the principle of free examination of evidence is fundamental to swedish criminal procedure law. in several other member states, rules exist that prohibit certain types of evidence. it is therefore very important for us swedish social democrats to keep the national system intact. moreover, it is doubtful whether there is any legal basis for harmonisation in this respect, either in the current treaty or in the future constitution.
in writing. strengthening mutual trust in european judicial decisions by setting up an evaluation system may seem to be commendable, even if a common reference framework for member states already exists today through the european convention on human rights and the case law of the european court of justice, which regulates minimum standards for access to justice. however, the proposal is another example of the creeping expansion of the eu's competences and is part of the attempt to create a harmonised european criminal and procedural justice system, a legal system which will in practice be outside direct citizen control. moreover, recommending the use of constitutional provisions before the entry into force of the draft constitution because the current treaty does not go far enough is unacceptable as it flagrantly prejudges the democratic process. the junilist therefore votes against this report.
in writing. we fully support the idea that cultural diversity is a fundamental right. the eu is and will remain a mosaic of minorities and cultures. as liberals, we always put the individual at the center of all political decisions. we therefore consider it of the utmost importance to establish in international law that each city, state or group of states has the right to freely determine the cultural policy it wishes to pursue, and to strengthen the policy of international cooperation and solidarity in cultural matters. we therefore believe that the question of cultural capitals is not an issue in which the eu should be involved. the european union is also committed to the development of a european cultural area. we therefore vote against the report by mrs christa prets (a6-0017/2005) on the european capital of culture for the years 2005 to 2019.
in writing. we are in favour of the possibility of choosing two cultural capitals at a time from 2009. however, the explanatory memorandum of the report states that the financing of this project is unclear and refers to the forthcoming 2007-2013 budget plan. we cannot at present support something which involves financial commitments in future budgets. there is no need to rush through a decision on future cultural capitals at this stage. first, the 2007-2013 budgetary plan must be examined in its entirety, after which this report can be considered. the idea of a european capital of culture is a good one. it is even so good that it can be financed in a variety of other ways, including local sponsorship. financial resources from the european union should not be necessary for the survival of this project. we therefore vote against this report as such, but we are not opposed to the idea of action itself.
in writing. i want a more proactive competition policy, but i don't want supranationality or it to be in the constitution. that is why i chose to abstain, which is the vote corrected for a mistake in the minutes.
in writing. the junilists are in favour of the completion of the internal market and support common rules on subsidies for public services and fair procurement requirements, including for public services. in principle, public support should also be accounted for and readily available. the only exception to this rule is where a member state has chosen to provide the service only through a monopoly and does not intend to allow private operators at all (for example, a member state which only allows public healthcare). however, junilista believes that the responsibility must be primarily at member state level. if it is found that a member state is abusing its position and distorting competition, it is important that the party who may be disadvantaged can have his case tried in court. the junilista has therefore voted against the proposal that the data should be reported to the commission.
in writing. sometimes, as a member, you have to choose between two bad options and choose the least bad. in this case i voted for amendments nos 9 and 22, although i did not agree with the whole content of the amendment, which was nevertheless better than the original text and would therefore, if accepted, improve the report as a whole.
in writing. we voted in favour of the report on public finances in emu 2004 and also amendment no 7 on the distinction between loans for investment and current expenditure. however, we believe that the possibility of borrowing for public investment and thus exceeding the budget deficit ceiling should be reserved to those countries which meet the criterion of government debt.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the risk of dying from cancer is four times greater for female hairdressers than for women in general. one third of all work-related accidents are caused by the use of hazardous chemicals. as we write in this report, the damage to the nervous system caused by, among other things, mercury, pesticides and other chemicals has increased markedly in recent decades. the work of detecting and phasing out dangerous chemicals is therefore a crucial factor in improving human health. this is emphasized in this report, but this fact must also be the basis for the future discussions in this house on the future chemicals policy reach. sickness and disease strike different groups of society differently. children are very sensitive to environmental influences. low-income people are more likely to get sick than high-income people, and men's and women's health differ. the committee has taken note of this and it has been very important for us social democrats to include it. in this report we have been told that there is a need to focus more on particularly vulnerable groups, but also that the collection of data should be done in such a way that more information can be obtained on how different groups in society are exposed and affected by different types of pollution in the environment. for example, we want gender-disaggregated statistics to detect and address disparities in men's and women's health and ill-health. it's not just our environment that causes ill health. lifestyle-related illness is also a major threat today. that is why we social democrats have chosen to emphasize the need for increased efforts to combat ill health caused not only by alcohol but also by tobacco, poor diet and lack of exercise.
for the group. madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? first of all, i would like to thank mr grosch for the excellent cooperation and the excellent way in which the committee's proposal was drafted. all the party groups have been involved and we thank them for that. this is a matter of combining traditions and differences between the member states, but without losing sight of the objective of increasing the mobility of eu citizens and promoting road safety. now is the time to begin the long road to a driving licence throughout the eu. it will take many years, but it is important that old driving licenses are replaced. the reason is that we have to stop the driver's tourism, which means that you lose your license and buy a new one. now we have 110 models and the police can't keep track of whether the driver's license that they may be pulling is genuine, or that what they're seeing is genuine. in sweden a few years ago, you could go down to a basement printing plant, buy a driving licence from your old country, and then go to the national authority and exchange it for a swedish one. this is unacceptable and we cannot have it this way. that is why i think the council of ministers should agree to the exchange of old driving licences. it will take 60 years before we have an acceptable situation if we are to follow the ppe-de group's proposals. we can't have it like this. this is vital for us fellow road users because we are also on the road and we want to know that the driving licences that are available are genuine. as for doctors or airline pilots, we would never accept not knowing whether their papers and knowledge are genuine. the socialist group supports most of the committee's proposals. we do not think that medical examinations, as proposed by the commission, are appropriate for healthy drivers. europe's doctors should be used for sick people and for health work, not for checking every driver. of course, medical examinations and vision tests are required when a driver's licence is issued. as regards mopeds and motorcycles, we in the socialist group want to give priority to training and testing when you start with a moped and move up the driving licence categories. we also want the member states to be able to introduce rules on direct access to heavy motorcycles at the age of 21 on national territory. national exemptions are accepted for cars and mopeds, and we believe that this must also apply to motorcycles. as far as caravans and motorhomes are concerned, we follow the mathieu grosch line. finally, the trend we see ahead is that more and more cars will be fitted with safety devices such as seat-belt reminders, alcohol locks and light reminders. it is encouraged by the european commission and by security organisations. then we must also help to produce a basic document for the presentation of a vehicle, a driving licence that is genuine, reliable and up-to-date.
thank you so much for your answer. i think that was a hopeful answer. we must use all the possibilities to promote road safety, both the different possibilities that exist and those that are emerging in the different member states. there is, of course, concern about having to wait for the review and not being able to take the initiative. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he thinks that the commission will be presenting more proposals for directives after the mid-term review, since that possibility was actually mentioned in the road safety programme that we have now.
the eu's agricultural aid is doing a great deal of damage to the world's poorest countries. sugar is also one of the most important export products for many poor countries. that is why the recent sugar reform we are talking about is very important, although i think it should have gone further. i think it is rather embarrassing that the eu, which is otherwise based on free competition, should favour its own agriculture in such a massive way. i would therefore ask the commission: what further measures do you intend to take to reduce eu agricultural aid and thus enable the world's poor countries to do something about their present very difficult situation?
thank you very much for your detailed answer. as you said, a lot has happened since i asked this question and i just want to express my gratitude that the commission has shown such understanding and has been so accommodating both to sweden and to the baltic states which have been hit hard in this way. i would like to express my sincere thanks for the handling you have given.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? the marine environment is vital for all of us and for future generations. it has been said many times here today and i can only agree. it is also true that pollution of the seas and marine environment is a genuine transboundary problem and a genuine transboundary challenge. as i see it, the decision we are going to take tomorrow will lead to an improvement in the situation of the seas and the marine environment. i also believe that a european coastguard, a matter which will be examined, could be a good complement to this work. it could be good for fighting oil pollution in all its forms. it is important to define the tasks and roles of the coast guard so that it can function in relation to national responsibilities as well. i shall therefore be brief and only endorse the proposed agreement.
for the group. i thank you for your reply, commissioner borg, and i wish you the best of luck in your fight in the fao. nobody makes any money off bycatch. it is our duty to find ways of reducing them. fishermen are forced to discard fine cod caught in excess of quotas when caught as by-catch. the rules shall be set so that no fish is caught before it has been able to reproduce at least once. increasing the minimum size may be a win-win situation for some species as we increase reproduction, biomass and catch in the long term. we must then ensure that the mesh sizes of the nets are adapted to these minimum sizes. it is also time to pay more attention to by-catches of non-commercial fish. international opinion is growing against these catches, especially of yellow marine mammals, but also of other species. the rules have focused on commercial species, but for the well-being of the ecosystems and commercial species, we must also conserve and protect non-commercial species. increased selectivity and research on how to reduce these by-catches is necessary. it is important to remember in this context that avoiding one species must not lead to an increase in by-catch of another species. if we do not find a solution to these problems, our oceans will soon be as empty as this room is at this moment.
for the group. mr president, i would like to thank you. the annual human rights session in geneva is a very important opportunity for the countries of the world to meet and discuss human rights. many citizens around the world, states, dissidents and oppressed, are watching this exercise with great interest. for the european parliament, this is a very important event. we therefore welcome this cooperation between the commission, the council and ourselves. of course, the format of the meeting is something that should be reviewed. perhaps this could be done in connection with the un review in september. it is, for example, totally unreasonable that a rogue state such as libya has chaired the human rights session. it doesn't give our work any credibility. we also need to improve the structure of meetings, as my colleague josé ribeiro e castro has just said. despite the good intentions in geneva, there is a lot of cow trading, where the really big rogue states, like iran and china, often get away with it, while it is easier to agree on, for example, north korea - it is also a rogue state, of course. the liberal group regrets this and would very much like to see resolutions on iran and china, because they are the countries which are the worst violators of human rights. we are also very concerned about the situation in darfur and regret that the abuses and genocides there are not being brought before the international criminal court. there are a number of themes and countries that could be addressed and the excellent report by hélène flautres, which we support, mentions the priorities of parliament. i would just like to highlight chechnya, zimbabwe and colombia for the liberal group. it is also very important that the un commissioner for human rights, her staff and various bodies are given sufficient resources to be able to work on the issue. the three themes that the eu will pursue are very good, and we stand behind them. we'd also like to have one about freedom of speech and journalists. last year, more journalists were killed in the line of duty than ever before, and there are many, many more in prison around the world. the courage of these people is absolutely essential for us to find out about human rights abuses and is therefore a prerequisite for the geneva session. so it is our duty not to forget the work they do.
in writing. the commission proposes that the council authorise the member states covered by the eu's common visa, asylum and immigration policy (including sweden) to ratify, in the interests of the community, the ilo convention on identity documents for seafarers. the convention does not require any amendment of the regulation governing the area, which expressly provides for exemptions from the visa requirement for civilian crew members on board ships. it is therefore not reasonable for the member states to require the authorization of the council, a view clearly shared by france, which has already ratified the convention. the junilist therefore sees no obstacle to the member states deciding independently whether to accede to the convention without any authorisation from the eu.
in writing. we believe that it is good to harmonise driving licence rules and the appearance of driving licences within the european union as far as possible. but the commission's proposal for a directive has become too detailed, as have the amendments tabled in the european parliament. we believe that subsidiarity and the principle of country of origin should apply to the rules on motorcycle licences and moped licences. the validity of driving licences and the medical examination of licence holders are also issues where we believe in the principle of mutual recognition and have confidence in the ability of member states to take well-considered and wise decisions. it is often said that the member states must trust each other in the area of laws and regulations. we believe that this should also apply to driving licence regulations. we are voting against this report because we believe that the harmonization of driving licence regulations can be achieved without this detailed proposal for a directive. in addition, there is already a driving licence directive which has regulated the appearance of driving licences issued within the union.
in writing. the june list votes against the proposal on the recognition of seafarers' certificates. the government office fact memorandum (2003/04:fpm113) notes that there has been a 'significant increase in the number of fraud cases related to the certification procedure', and the maritime administration also expresses concern that the right to impose the necessary conditions will disappear if this directive is adopted. the junilists are generally in favour of the principle of the country of origin and support the idea of removing the obstacles which impair the functioning of the internal market. in this particular case, however, there are strong indications that the european union is not yet ready to take this step.
in writing. the moderate delegation in the european parliament voted today in favour of the ries report on the european environment and health action plan 2004-2010. we believe, however, that it is wrong for the european parliament to call on the commission to take initiatives on lifestyle-related diseases or various measures against smoking. decisions on these issues are a matter for the member states and should ultimately be made mainly by individuals and not be subject to political decision-making. we moderates believe that the eu is an important tool in the quest for a better environment, but the eu's responsibility is limited. the eu should only be responsible for environmental issues which are clearly transnational. it is therefore wrong to call on the commission to promote the eco-labelling of building materials, the drawing up of lists of dangerous workplaces and the establishment of environmental ambulances.
in writing. the health effects of environmental pollution are a key societal issue requiring broad engagement. we have therefore voted in favour of the report as a whole. we are, however, critical of the fact that the report does not stress the principle of subsidiarity. a european environment action plan shall exclusively include transboundary environmental issues. unfortunately, this is not the case with the present action plan. we do not believe that the eu should work to combat ill health caused by tobacco, alcohol, poor diet and lack of exercise (paragraph 17) nor does the commission work to combat smoking in enclosed spaces (paragraph 20). the above paragraphs deal with areas with obvious health consequences. however, these are typical issues where the eu does not have competence and where the principle of subsidiarity must be applied. we also do not think that the subsidiarity principle applies in paragraph 28, which emphasizes that special attention should be paid to people living near polluted installations. finally, it is important that the commission clarifies the total amount to be released for the financing of the action plan and whether it considers that a new financial instrument should be set up for the financing. the costs of the action plan shall be included within the limits set by the budget.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the hunger and injustice in the world are issues of great importance. what factors make the eu the most appropriate international actor in this matter? rather, the eu's unfair trade rules and protectionist agricultural policies have contributed to global poverty. while the eu contributes economic resources in the form of development aid to poor countries, it prevents these countries from achieving growth through a bizarre agricultural and trade policy. this is inconsistent and not very credible. many developing countries see the eu as a problem maker rather than a problem solver. the united nations, on the other hand, is a more appropriate organization for combating poverty and hunger. the un has a broader global footing and more member countries. the eu is still too dominated by national interests. let us fight together for a more just world. the division of responsibilities between the eu and the un could be as follows: within the framework of the eu, we can work on reforming agricultural policy and try to achieve a fairer trade policy. through the united nations, the nations of the world can channel financial and other aid to people who are starving and in need. let us avoid unnecessary institutional power struggles in our common goal of ending poverty.
for the group. mr president, i would like to thank you. with the abolition of quantitative import controls for the teak industry, there is great concern about the future of the teak industry in the eu. there is reason to put this in a historical perspective. as a young student of economics, i wrote an essay in 1962 about the sharp decline of the swedish tea industry after world war ii. the reason was the fierce competition from low-wage countries such as germany and italy. i felt that the structural change in the industry had been fortunate. workforce had moved to more well-paid jobs in the engineering industry and the surviving tech industry had moved to more advanced products. there was no unemployment and the trade unions had been active in the structural change. it all seemed like an economic and social sunshine story. during the 1960's and 1970's, this process continued. the surviving swedish teak companies then moved a large part of their production to low-wage countries such as finland and eventually portugal but kept design and marketing in sweden. special products such as men's suits and car clothes were still made in sweden, and were profitable. today we laugh at the idea that advanced finland, nokialand, still appeared to be such a low-wage country in the late 1960s. today, there is very little left of the production of textile products in sweden, but large swedish clothing chains employ a multitude of people to design and market clothes around the world. we've had ten years to adjust. if the eu is to become a leading, dynamic and knowledge-based region, our socioeconomic system must be able to compensate for a shrinking tech industry by shifting to more sophisticated tech products and by strong growth in other sectors. otherwise, the lisbon agenda will be a soap bubble that will be punctured.
i would first like to thank the presidency for its reply. my question is a little more directed to the fact that there is a contradiction in principle between, on the one hand, the international conventions we have signed in the council of europe, which are intended to protect privacy and also the right to private correspondence, and, on the other hand, the directive you are discussing, which proposes that all correspondence with certain technologies be stored. although this directive does impose certain restrictions, there is a contradiction of principle. it is not reasonable to claim that one should have private correspondence while at the same time storing it in any way. how do you view this contrast?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to thank my colleague, mercedes bresso, for her hard work. however, my swedish colleagues and i do see some concerns. at first reading of the proposal, denmark and sweden reserved their position because we are concerned that the directive will have a negative impact on the level of consumer protection in cases where member states have stricter national legislation, as sweden has in this case. we still hold that view in the swedish social democratic group. we also think that the proposal is too narrow because it is strictly limited to the economic interests of consumers. our main objection to the proposal, however, is that it risks undermining our ban on television advertising directed at children. today it is regulated by the television directive, which in turn risks being fully harmonised by this proposal for a directive. unfortunately, children are not sufficiently protected against advertising in this proposal, which we have discussed earlier in the evening. the swedish proposal against television advertising to children under 12 years of age is based on the same theories of development that underlie our need to protect minors from acts of violence and pornography. children cannot be expected to be critical of advertising or to resist entertainment that is directed at them. that is why we should have had a stricter proposal on advertising to children.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am very pleased that the basic overarching idea of how we are going to achieve better development in europe is now the knowledge-based economy. i think it's the answer to a lot of things. i also believe that it is right to focus on education, research and innovation, each separately but still in a coherent context. i also believe that the technology platforms will play a very good role. it is good that the social sciences are included in this context. what we need to focus on, of course, is the infrastructure around research, which we haven't really discussed much yet. in this context, i would like to mention two concerns. the first is the professional and social conditions of european researchers on a personal level. we see how large groups in the current situation are leaving research to pursue other pursuits because they find that they cannot create good career paths and good family relationships with the rules and conditions that we give them. this is of course particularly regrettable now that we know that with this new research policy we will need not fewer but twice as many researchers. i would like to hear what the commission intends to do in this area. the second thing that concerns me is, of course, the industry's share of the total research budget. the general trend in all member states is that they are going down rather than up. i would like to hear what the commission is doing to encourage industry to invest more in research and development. finally, as we look at the framework for a new european research policy, we must also consider how we can transfer these research results to jobs. i would therefore also like to see a first comprehensive framework programme for innovation.
for the group. mr president, i would like to thank you. first, let us agree that everyone wants to provide the fastest possible assistance in the most efficient way possible. it was a nice idea to export old fishing boats, but it's not working. this is a clear case of the emperor is naked. everyone has realized that the idea does not work, but no one dares to say it publicly and scrap the proposal. the fao has not received any request for boats. on the contrary, both indonesia and sri lanka have rejected such offers. in addition, a conference of regional fisheries organisations met last week in sumatra, with representatives from all the affected countries. they're opposed to the export of old ships. they would rather have support to build up their local yards and their fishing fleets. that's what we have to help them with. our amendments are at any rate intended to reduce the risk that this export of boats will destroy the seabed and the local economy and damage fish stocks with the wrong equipment. i hope the commission will follow its good spirit, but your voting recommendations could have been more generous. the council! is there anyone from the council here? you can see the emperor is naked and scrap this proposal. let go of the prestige, don't have a european perspective, but see it from the side of the victims.
for the group. mr president, i would like to thank you. when you first hear this proposal, it sounds very sympathetic that boats left in the eu should be sent to the disaster areas where so many ships have been destroyed. but when you think about it a second time, you start to think about all the difficulties that arise. on the third point, the question arises whether this is not creating more problems than it solves and, definitely, whether it is not costing more than it tastes. first of all: what's in it for you? if the equivalent of this total cost were used to produce boats locally, it would have a much more positive effect on local fisheries. it would also have the effect of supporting the local economy and the local shipyard industry which needs support in this disaster situation. second, the practical. is it really that practical to collect and transport these boats to this region? how will distribution and distribution be handled? third, consider the ecology. it's about different types of fishing, different types of gear, different catches. the risk is that you will have less sustainable fishing and less ecological fishing if you send a very different type of boat than the one traditionally used in the area. fourthly, the commission do the countries that are supposed to receive these boats really want them? the answer to this is what we have received from the un agency, the fao, which coordinates this, that 'no, they do not want to'. no request for these boats has been received, but instead they want to be able to build their own boats, with their local tradition and their local technology. after thinking about it once, twice, three times, it becomes quite obvious that this was a good idea, which, on reflection, should be abandoned. the proposal could certainly be improved by adopting the amendments, particularly those tabled by the greens. then that's a better suggestion. but the wisest thing would be for the commission to realise the situation, withdraw the proposal and instead try to get the member states to give at least an equivalent amount to build boats locally in the disaster-stricken countries. it would be of greater benefit to those whom we all want to help, namely the victims of the terrible tsunami disaster.
for the group. mr president, i would like to thank you. on christmas eve, one of the greatest natural disasters of modern times occurred. hundreds of thousands lost their lives, millions lost loved ones and their livelihoods. the fact that the world has responded with a historically unique solidarity and generosity has been a ray of hope in the midst of this tragedy. the fishing industry was particularly hard hit by the tsunami. the survivors have often lost the means of their livelihood - the boat. the proposal to provide assistance to countries affected by the tsunami with eu ships is therefore morally laudable, but it is a drop in the bucket that makes it almost ridiculous. a much better alternative would be to buy boats in the affected countries and in other countries in the vicinity, adapted to local purposes and needs. this would also mean a much needed local economic injection. the role of the eu as an international actor in these contexts is also not self-evident. there is a tendency for forces within the eu to use disasters to advance their positions. new eu authorities, programmes and measures are being proposed and those who question this development appear, at this historic moment, to be lacking in solidarity. the truth is, however, that in these situations the eu countries should often coordinate their financial and material resources through other international bodies, particularly in the framework of un cooperation. this is the case, for example, of the urgent establishment of a tsunami warning system in the indian ocean of the kind already in place in the pacific. i am opposed to the use of international tragedies to give the eu new powers. the eu's competences should be discussed in the context of the principle of subsidiarity in normal circumstances and not decided by quick decisions in disaster situations. the european peoples' commitment to global solidarity must not be misused to undermine the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. the conflict and general developments in côte d'ivoire constitute a major political issue. the united nations is involved in this conflict and has decided by resolution 1572 (2004) to impose restrictive measures against côte d'ivoire. this resolution was adopted by the un security council. the un is and should be involved in international affairs. the junilists do not believe that the eu countries should coordinate their respective commitments in the un within the framework of eu cooperation. there is a general tendency for the eu to try to move its foreign policy positions forward. we oppose this development and advocate a national foreign policy and international cooperation within the un. our basic position is that the eu should not be involved or engaged in foreign policy matters. we have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on unfair commercial practices aims to bring about greater harmonisation of the rules on unfair commercial practices which harm the economic interests of consumers. the directive aims to improve the functioning of the internal market and to strengthen consumer protection. the proposal prohibits unfair business practices. we are fully behind the implementation of the internal market and good consumer protection. the reason why we cannot support the proposal for a directive in its present form is that it risks leading to sweden not being able to maintain its ban on television advertising directed at children in the long term. we do not want to contribute to the weakening of the existing rules on advertising to children and have therefore decided to abstain in the final vote on the bresson report as a whole.
in writing. the tsunami disaster is a great international tragedy in which global solidarity and generosity are desirable. we have voted yes to the motion. we believe, however, that the un is the international body best placed to provide humanitarian aid in the event of international disasters. the un has a broader international footing and more experience than the eu in dealing with crisis situations. we are critical of the eu taking every opportunity to move forward and strengthen its position and influence. there are also good reasons to question whether the most appropriate aid is to send ships from eu countries to the countries affected by the tsunami. an alternative contribution would be to buy the vessels locally. this would facilitate relief efforts and help develop the local economy in the countries affected by the tsunami.
in writing. the european parliament voted today on a proposal to transfer small fishing vessels no longer used within the eu to fishing communities affected by the tsunami. i fully agree with the importance of the recovery of the fisheries sector in the affected countries. however, i do not think that the transfer of fishing vessels, in line with the proposal for a regulation, is the right way forward. the transfer of a number of fishing boats will not cover the existing needs. in addition, support for the fisheries sector in the affected countries should be adapted to local needs and local demand.
in writing. i am voting against this resolution because i consider it to be against the principles of a market economy. the experience of sweden shows that the solutions proposed in the resolution do not address the problems they want to solve.
in writing. the junilista group believes that the european parliament should not be deciding where companies should place their production. each member state should be free to pursue its own industrial policy within the framework of competition law. the survival of the european steel industry depends on its competitiveness on the international market, not on protection and subsidies
in writing. the junilista group votes against the own-initiative report on health and safety at work. the own-initiative report deals with important issues and the junilist supports many of the basic ideas proposed. a good working environment is important for all employees. the junilista group, however, believes that each member state must be allowed to choose how it wants to achieve a good working environment. for example, in the swedish case, it is a matter of negotiation between the social partners and not a matter that should be regulated by eu legislation.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by making a quick analysis of the world to show what it looks like in the europe for which we are jointly responsible. we have the very large oil-producing countries in the middle east, where there is unrest and where oil resources are limited. on the other side of us we have a very large country, russia, where putin has seen that energy is power and is gathering more and more of this power in the form of the various energy companies in russia in his own hand, literally in the kremlin. we have ten new member states which are very dependent on energy imports from russia. we also have old member states, such as germany, where half of the gas imports come from russia. in the field of security policy, this is a very unbalanced and worrying situation. we also have huge environmental problems, which we all agree must be solved, and very ambitious environmental targets. at the same time, energy prices are rising. the consumption curve is rising. european industry needs more and more energy, as do transport and households. as i have already mentioned, the import dependence of some countries is enormous. we have a huge problem with the power grid. in sweden we have had a storm which has left up to 50 000 households, and of course also industry and small businesses in the affected areas, without electricity for more than two months after this storm, which is completely unacceptable. we also remember when all of italy went dark for many hours. so we have an instability in the energy grids that is not acceptable. the european union has defined the so-called ten projects as extremely important, but we see them being stalled in area after area and not having the pace of expansion that was in the original decisions. all in all, we are therefore in a very worrying situation. as far as energy policy in europe is concerned, we must stabilise the supply of energy. we must ensure that the transmission networks are functioning and stable, that companies invest in new technologies, so that simple storms or similar events do not cause long-term power cuts. we need to make sure that the ten projects work. so my first question is: how does the commission ensure that energy supply is stabilised? we also need to transform europe's energy supply, i.e. we need to get the green energy we agree is needed. this means that the commission has a very great responsibility. it is not usual to cooperate across policy areas, but we have an agricultural reform which means that biomass could be produced on parts of agricultural land in europe that are currently being taken out of use. we have an industry that needs energy. we also have environmental and employment objectives to meet. secondly, i would like to know how the various parts of the commission are working together to find a solution to these problems. thirdly, we need to revitalise the energy supply, i.e. produce more. my question is what is being done to ensure that european basic industry, through district heating, district heating, co-generation, etc., also produces more energy. mr. speaker, energy is power. the question is to ensure that this power is used properly.
the rapporteur's alternate. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by expressing my regret that the rapporteur, mr proinsias de rossa, is unable to be present. he is the member who has worked on this matter and knows it best, but unfortunately he is ill at home in ireland and cannot take part in this debate. i am therefore replacing him, which is not difficult, because both my group and i share the views of mr de rossa on the position to be taken at the second reading of parliament. we think we should say yes! let me begin by saying something about the meaning of regulation 1408/71. it is essential for free movement within the eu to make it easier for citizens to move between different member states while benefiting from different social benefits. since its entry into force in the 1970s, this regulation has been subject to a thorough review. in addition, improvements have been made during the journey. improvements have been made, which is also the reason for the rapporteur's position. when we discussed the matter in committee, there was a large majority in favour of us agreeing to the council's common position. the vote was 30 for and 1 against. if i am not mistaken, this 'no' vote was from someone who, in general, does not like free movement and cooperation within the eu. there was therefore a high degree of agreement in the committee and in the adoption of the rapporteur's position. since then there has been a change in the original position, namely on paragraph 2, which is that we knew already during the committee procedure that there was a disagreement between the commission and the council on some specific benefits. we have therefore asked the legal service of the parliament to amend paragraph 2. the commission has therefore tabled an amendment to eliminate this legal uncertainty, with the support of its group and the greens and gue/ngl group. the rapporteur's position remains the same. there is also an amendment which seeks to reject the common position. i would argue, however, that we should follow the rapporteur's recommendation. firstly, we should not delay this process any further. we know that there has been a parallel review of the regulation itself. the implementing regulation is also now to be reviewed. it would not help this process if parliament were to reject the common position. secondly, if we look at the whole picture and what we said at the first reading, the council has indeed taken very much into account the views expressed by parliament, indeed very much so. the two points i am now raising, namely that we should not delay the process and that we have been largely satisfied, mean that we should accept the common position, but with the amendment tabled to avoid legal uncertainty. as regards the benefits on which the commission and the council differ, this should be decided by the judicial authorities, if the commission so wishes. we must not prejudge the decision that may be taken by the judicial authorities. i do not see that it is in anyone's interest to delay this process or to reject the common position. it is not in the interest of the commission, it is not in the interest of the council, it is not in the interest of parliament and it is certainly not in the interest of the citizens.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the united nations declaration adopted in new york two days ago is an important victory for all women. it has reaffirmed the beijing platform for action and women’s reproductive rights. that is something i warmly welcome. nevertheless, it is not the only important issue today. a large number of women suffer violence at the hands of the men with whom they have or have had a relationship. it is said that considerable progress has been made, but in fact there has been no progress, because we have not yet realised the full extent of the problem. in terms of figures, we are talking about at least one-fifth of all women in the eu, with some studies currently putting the true figure as high as one-third. this is an epidemic in our society. as rapporteur on this matter, i am finalising a report in which i urge all member states to carry out accurate studies on prevalence. we need correct figures on a europe-wide scale. i will also propose a ‘name and fame’ list of the countries, regions and cities dealing with this issue in the right way. it is clear, for example, that spain is one country doing much to change this sad state of affairs, and i take this opportunity to say ¡viva españa! finally, i want to highlight the most extreme form of violence against women. on our continent, women and girls are being sold like cattle. we all know about this. it is the most devastating of human rights crises, currently affecting hundreds of thousands of women in europe alone, and it is happening right now as we commemorate international women’s day. it is modern slavery. where there is demand, there will be supply. consequently, from now on i will end all my speeches in this house with a phrase borrowed from a famous roman politician: ceterum censeo prostitutionem esse delendam – ‘i therefore maintain that prostitution must be abolished’. (applause)
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. over the years, the subordination of women, which we know exists in all areas of society, has been highlighted and discussed especially on this day. every year we have placed great hopes on the fact that all words will be translated into practical action. while some progress has been made, the basic patriarchal system of power still exists. the follow-up to the fourth world conference on women would certainly have been facilitated if the president of the commission had appointed a commissioner for gender equality. the importance and scope of gender issues in all policy areas had required a commissioner for gender equality dedicated exclusively to gender issues. i would like to call on the commission, although there is unfortunately no commissioner responsible for gender equality at present, to give equal priority in future to gender equality work as much as to work on the internal market, goods, services, industry, etc. one of the many evidences of women's subordination is the violence of men against women. the world bank estimates that violence against women is as common a cause of death as cancer. it causes more ill health than malaria and road accidents combined. most of us condemn violence, but we also have to address the values that enable violence, the culture that says women should be available to men and that men have the right to control women's lives and bodies, the culture that says women's bodies are commodities to be bought and sold. this is the everyday life of many women and girls in europe today. it's called trafficking and prostitution, but it can also be called sexual slavery. its continuation and survival depends on an unholy alliance between economic gain, sexist and racist views. on behalf of women in the member states, i also deplore the neoliberal economic policies of deregulation and privatisation which further complicate the situation of women, both in terms of employment and access to child and elderly care. mr president, i would like to thank you. it is high time to translate the beijing action plan into practical policy. the day we achieve these goals, hopefully we will live in a society that does not need special women's days. then all days are women's, men's and children's.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to congratulate all women today on international women's day with a greeting from the social democrats in sweden, which became a feminist party in 2001. i hope that in my time in the european parliament i too will experience the feminization of this parliament. that's one in two women in this place. that means putting men's violence against women higher on the agenda. this means that men must not be able to buy women for money in prostitution, i.e. sex-buying, in all eu countries as well as in sweden. that requires full employment and cooperation at national level, extended childcare and care for the elderly. paid parental insurance is necessary if women are to be able to work and young children to share the responsibilities of the family and home. gender equality requires that women and men want to be together.
in writing. junilista supports the creation of a well-functioning internal market for natural gas that facilitates market access for new players. the establishment of basic principles and rules governing the conditions of access to gas networks, leading to increased competition in the eu and, consequently, lower gas prices, is thus positive, as long as incentives for investment in infrastructure and the assumption of business risks are maintained by guaranteeing reasonable levels of compensation for access.
in writing. the free movement of persons within the internal market is one of the greatest achievements and advantages of the european union and it naturally requires a well-functioning common labour market. at the same time, however, the right of member states to choose their welfare model must be respected. some choose a combination of high taxes, large public service production and generous subsidies, others choose low taxes and a more rudimentary welfare model. it is not possible to allow european citizens to opt for low taxes in one country and at the same time take with them the right to generous subsidies and aid from another country. if this is allowed, the member states will be forced to adopt the same welfare model. the ability of the peoples of europe to choose their future is undermined in yet another area. the junilist wants to see a proper review of the growing influence of eu rules in social and labour market policy. we therefore vote against the report which calls for further restrictions on the freedom of action of the member states in some of the most central areas of democratic economic policy.
in writing. we support the report on the social situation in the european union. however, we voted against the demand that the commission withdraw its proposal for a directive on services in the internal market, partly because the demand is unrealistic and partly because we believe that we can influence the content of the directive in the european parliament. as regards the harmonisation of the status of paid employment with its associated rights and guarantees, in particular in the field of social protection and lifelong learning, we assume that such harmonisation concerns minimum levels. as for introducing measures such as a 'minimum income for life', we interpret it as referring to what we in sweden call social contributions and not the introduction of a minimum wage system.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it was nice to hear someone from the commission defend the services directive for once. it is extremely important and central to the real implementation of the lisbon agenda, which the commission is talking about so much. the future of europe's economy lies in the service sector. what if the commission developed a strategy for how to talk about the services directive? what we have seen now is that each commissioner seems to have his own agenda on this issue, which is very unfortunate. how can the whole idea of free movement of services exist if reforms are to be introduced into the principle of the country of origin?
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i agree with the reasons for your action on computer-related patents. my question is about the services directive. the commission's role is to be the guardian of the treaties, after all, is it not? yet, today, on 8 march, international women's day, the commission is taking the whole health sector out of the services directive, i.e. a sector dominated by women. if you have multiple employers to choose from, we know that the chance of higher wages is much greater. in this context, you will therefore try to limit the opportunities for women to receive higher wages, so that they have one or very few employers. it is a major reason to get higher wages and to be able to have several employers! what does the commission intend to do about this? will the commission put forward a new proposal in the health field? it is indeed the commission's role to give the freedoms of the treaty to all europeans - women and men!
mr president, i would like to thank you. there are many people here today who have spoken out against the services directive. i therefore think it is important to state that it is the most significant single reform we have today for european integration and for giving new impetus to the lisbon process. we need not just a services directive but a directive which will increase trade in services across europe's borders. the service sector accounts for 70% of the european economy. we will never have the most competitive knowledge economy in the world if we do not open up to the service sector. it is against this background that there is reason to be concerned about what the commissioner has said, since large parts of the services sector are excluded. it is important to analyse the question: how much of the european services sector will be left after the exemptions that are now being made? half of europe has had the privilege of living in freedom and peace for 50 years and has been able to develop a highly knowledge-based service sector; we have that competitive advantage. another part of europe has other competitive advantages. how will the commissioner ensure that all countries in europe have competitive advantages through the principle of country of origin and through free and open trade in services? these are crucial questions for our success.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think the commission's position on the services directive is in the right direction; the criticisms have been heard. however, there are some ambiguities, particularly in relation to the labour market. do you agree with me that it is not enough to exempt by the posting of workers directive, but that the whole labour market must be exempted, and then the host country principle should apply? secondly, if the labour market is excluded and the host country principle applies, environmental standards, consumer law, etc., how can a directive be regarded as the fundamental principle of the country of origin? these are perhaps the most important areas where the host country principle should apply. the third question i would like to ask concerns public services. i think it is good that health and social services should be excluded. can you be clear about the areas you are referring to when you talk about the scope of the directive?
i share the view that there has been improvement in the agricultural policy. however, i do not think that the improvements are sufficient. there are also complaints from the poorer part of the world against the agricultural policies of the eu and the us, because we do not provide access to markets and dump prices on the world market. i would like to see further improvements, because i believe that fair world trade is just as important as aid policy. do you share my view that further changes are needed to benefit the poor parts of the world? if so, how do you propose to achieve this?
i agree with the previous speaker that it is urgent to make the eu more efficient. however, in the context of modernising the eu institutions and implementing the good governance practices that commissioner kallas talks about, we must also demand more from the tax money we spend. such efficiency would be possible if all eu decisions were actually implemented. i've come to understand that a lot of the decisions we make here aren't. this could be important measures to combat environmental degradation or legislation to improve equality and fairness in europe. my question is how the commission intends to work to ensure that the decisions taken by the eu institutions are also implemented and become reality and improvements in people's everyday lives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i feel very uncomfortable with the whole preference system as such. the fact that we are reducing trade barriers for poor countries is of course a good thing, because trade contributes to freedom, development and, not least, to the prosperity that poor countries so badly need. the sad thing is that a special system of preferences for the poor countries is needed in the first place. that europe's general trade policy has such consequences that we have to make exceptions to it for the poor so that they can sleep well at night. experience shows that the preferential system has been largely symbolic. few poor countries have taken advantage of it, not least because it has been so complicated. the aim must of course be to achieve the liberalization of trade policy so that we do away with the preferential system altogether. the european union, which is founded on the wise insight of the beneficial effects of free trade, should dare to take the plunge. if we do not, how can trade and the world become freer? however, in dealing with this matter, i doubted whether some members had not forgotten the basis of free trade on which european cooperation was built. here too, several attempts were made to protect european sugar production and the textile industry, which already operate behind high customs barriers - all at the expense of producers in poor countries. i voted against these attempts, of course, but it still tells us that we have a long way to go. for my part, i would like to see the new preferential system go further, eliminating already low duties, improving the opportunities for regional processing and simplifying the system further. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that i hope that in the not too distant future we will reach a point where european trade policy is so free, open and unhindered that we do not really need any preferential system. the european trade policy must be imbued with the same basic idea that created the union, free trade, otherwise europe will not live as europe actually teaches.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank mr bowis for his report. there is much to be said for acp cooperation and for the work of mr bowi in strengthening the acp-eu assembly. given the concern of our colleagues in the acp countries about budgetary matters, i think it is important to strengthen the role of the acp-eu assembly in this area. if it is acceptable to your colleagues, i would like to propose a small amendment to paragraph 11 to further strengthen the text. the incorporation of the european development fund into the eu budget 'should be accompanied by a strengthening' of the role of the jpa, rather than 'should enable strengthening', which is becoming clearer. we are expressing a clear desire to ensure that our friends from the south are given a say. the low attendance at the brussels committee meetings is a major problem. last time, we were just a handful of eu nationals, which disappointed our guests. one representative from africa summed up: in africa it is considered impolite to invite guests in through one door and to leave through the other. this situation is damaging our relations with other countries. we are forced to choose between important votes on legislation and important cooperation with the outside world. mr president, i therefore ask the conference of presidents to reconsider its decision and allow us to hold acp meetings at some point during the weeks of the political groups' meetings, when no legislative votes are held and we can decide our agendas internally in the groups.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i, too, would like to thank john bowis for a job well done. it is also clear that the work of the joint parliamentary assembly has developed positively in recent times. we have had much more focused discussions, which is largely due to the fact that we have a system where we work in committees and prepare the cases. it is also a positive change that we have meetings in different eu countries. however, there are several problems which we must address in the near future. as carl schlyter mentioned, our attendance at committee meetings is disastrously low. i fully support the call for these meetings to be held during the weeks of the political groups' meetings instead, so that we can have a little more presence. some acp countries still send diplomats instead of parliamentarians, which is not very good. we also need better follow-up on many of the decisions we take. a very large part of the work of the acp-eu joint assembly is concerned with human rights and the resolution and prevention of armed conflicts. it is therefore striking that the international criminal court (icc) is not mentioned once in the report, even though it is one of the most important tools we have in this field. we have worked with the icc on several occasions, but we could develop that work considerably. it is one of the most important and effective tools we have to hold those who commit genocide and war crimes to account. we have a common interest, the eu and several acp countries, which have set up this court and which run it. the first two cases brought before the court concern uganda and the congo, which are acp countries. the biggest obstacle to the development of the criminal justice system today is the fierce opposition of the united states. we can see how the united states today is actively punishing acp countries in the caribbean, africa and the pacific who dare to sign the agreement on the criminal court. we in this house should do more to defend these countries, politically but also economically, when the united states withdraws its aid as punishment.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to limit my comments to paragraph 28 of the dombrovskis report, namely the one concerning the costs of having to work one week a month in strasbourg instead of concentrating its activities in brussels alone. the direct costs of this are estimated at eur 200 million per year. it does not include the loss of efficiency or the extra costs of members. the total cost would be at least close to eur 300 million per year. given the eu's lisbon objective of becoming the most competitive knowledge-based region in the world, the european parliament's unwillingness and inability to shut down strasbourg seems absurd. voters cannot respect a political leadership that cannot even cope with such a self-evident change, which the business world must always cope with. i do not think it is reasonable to include the eu's long-term financial perspective in an accumulated cost of eur 2 billion to maintain double jobs. alternatively, these funds could be used for technical research or other growth-enhancing activities. it is not possible to argue for a larger budget as long as this anachronism persists. therefore, the long-term budget should include this and a decision should be taken to move the operations to brussels by 2013.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i also hope, of course, that the commission will take the information from romania seriously. let us not be lulled into any confidence, because there will be different messages from different governments. we have seen that the inventiveness of the exploitation of women's bodies is great in every way. the debate today, a good number of hours ago, dealt with the fourth world conference on women. many members of parliament, the commissioner responsible and council representatives condemned the trafficking of women which was then being debated. now, many hours later, the debate is once again about plans to further exploit women's bodies through the trade in eggs. a cynical proposal such as buying and selling eggs should not be possible in a civilized humanist society. if this were allowed, one could consider the continuation of such a buying and selling market. what other organs should be able to be bought and sold on a market? now, of course, i am not talking about voluntary and unpaid donations of human cells and tissues. it is something quite different from this marketplace. i hope that the commission will take this seriously and that a unanimous parliament will agree to these calls for the commission to take all possible measures to prevent what i see as an illegal act. trade in eggs for payment shall not be allowed! it has to be unambiguous!
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the so-called kok report argues that there are synergies. one euro spent by the eu on development projects can be worth much more than the equivalent amount spent by individual member states. eu projects can then reduce the need for government funding to individual member states. increased eu funding therefore need not lead to increased tax burdens. in the case of large projects, such as space and fusion power, there may be economies of scale in running the projects at eu level. i also believe that the lisbon process should be financed mainly by the member states themselves. the lisbon process must not become the launching pad for a large number of new projects at eu level that require funding from the member states. in general, i think it is an important question whether national initiatives can be replaced by eu projects. i wonder if there's any empirical evidence for the existence of such effects. my experience seems to indicate the opposite effect. the more the eu invests in the development of its bureaucracy, the more legislation and the more directives, the more the public sector in the member states grows. for each new official in brussels, the total number of officials in the member states increases by a factor of 5, 10 or 25. the so-called public choice theory expects each national bureaucracy to seek to maximise its influence and role. the more the eu takes over from the bureaucracy of the member states, the more it expands. the reasons for this are many: the new directives must be implemented, controls must be tightened up, and politicians who have lost their right of initiative are looking for new areas. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. as an example of this process, i would like to mention what happened when the euro was introduced. as the national central banks lost their proper function of conducting monetary policy, their staffs increased considerably. similar phenomena can be observed in several areas. i believe that the commission should take the initiative of allowing independent researchers, economists and political scientists to study the way in which the bureaucratic multiplier works within the eu. it is important to stop this process, including through fewer legislative directives and more voluntary agreements. if this is not done, the most important growth sector is likely to be the public bureaucracy. growth risks being held back by its own ambitions to harmonize, legislate, intervene in every conceivable issue, etc. the eu should therefore instead make more use of the institutional competition inherent in differences.
mr president, five years after the launch of the lisbon strategy it is clear that we need to give it a fresh start. this new start should not, however, follow the line of the commission proposal. i am not critical about what is contained in the proposal, but rather what is not in the proposal. separating economic growth from social and environmental development must be a mistake since these three areas are linked. when president barroso presented the mid-term review in this parliament more than a month ago he used the metaphor of having three children and having to pay most attention to the sick one. the other two, in this case environmental and social development, will have to await their turn for president barroso’s attention. my conclusion is the opposite. to cure the eu economy we need the health of the whole family. investment in environmental technology leads to more jobs, boosts innovation and creates sustainable growth. when the forestry and pulp industry in the nordic countries made a major shift towards cleaner green technology, the companies concerned became even more competitive on the international market. new technologies for saving energy are another example of business interests being in tune with environmental concerns. there is a saying that competition brings out the best in products and the worst in people. this is definitely true of business, and it is important to create an internal market that is a level playing field. we need to create a competitive and sustainable economy in europe; this also means investing in research and development. the heads of state must take the situation seriously. we can set up ambitious goals, but if we lack the necessary political leadership we will never reach them. in europe we look at the situation in the us and wonder why it has double the growth that we have. the us wonders why china has twice the growth it has. the eu has a great potential to be the world’s leading knowledge-based economy. the proposals from the commission are good, but to reduce the lisbon strategy only to a matter of economic growth would be to take steps in the wrong direction while time is running out. the major groups have negotiated this resolution and the clear message is that economic growth, social cohesion and environmental development have to be seen as a whole. we demand the same from the council and the commission. i want to thank my fellow negotiators because it is a major achievement to table this resolution – i almost said revolution! – and to have a large majority in the chamber.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am glad that we seem to have a large majority in the european parliament for this resolution. a large majority is the only way for parliament to exert political influence. i believe that our influence lies in the fact that in our resolution we have managed to maintain what is fundamental to the lisbon process, namely the balance between the three pillars of growth, social cohesion and ecological sustainability. in the original commission document i do not think that was achieved. it was said that we need growth to cope with welfare and ecological sustainability. that is true, but the opposite is also true, namely that we need social cohesion and long-term sustainable investment to cope with long-term growth. it's the timing that counts. if we in parliament can contribute to this at the council meeting and if it becomes the policy of the future, then we have succeeded.
madam president, i would like to thank you. in the light of the shortcomings of the lisbon process, it is worth stressing that the key questions are not what we want to achieve but how. it's not about others being better at certain things, it's about why. even when we take pride in the social model, we see unemployment, exclusion, stagnation and contradictions. we must also ask ourselves why and what decisions we are going to take to change this. what avril doyle just said is true. for every area where we counteract competition, the result is less competitiveness. those who are now fighting the services directive with a free and open labour market are in fact opposing the new jobs of the future and european growth. there is no contradiction between the internal market and the social security of citizens, since nothing is more essential to social security than a job and an income. nothing is more crucial to social cohesion than the possibility of new businesses and new jobs. the most important process of integration in the european union is taking place as we sit here. it is a flow of people, goods and services that carries knowledge and ideas across borders. we must then ask ourselves whether we want to enable all member states to exploit their various competitive advantages in this process. the old member states have had the privilege of developing their social economies and competitiveness in freedom and peace for 50 years. the new member states have suffered oppression and poverty during the same period. the single market must be characterised by the fact that everyone can exploit his or her competitiveness. it is the commission's duty to see and highlight that this is about solidarity, integration and the possibility for everyone to create welfare. that is why the services directive is important, and that is why it is important to remember that it is about integration in europe which is crucial for competitiveness. we have to do that.
mr president, i have an oral amendment. i would like the second half of paragraph 11 to read as follows: ‘stresses that inclusion of the edf in the budget of the european union should be accompanied by reinforcement of the political role of the jpa in monitoring the funds committed to the framework of the acp-eu partnership’.
in writing. the undersigned have voted in favour of the report as a whole, as it contains in many parts important improvements to the commission's original proposal. (for example, the elimination of the requirement for double processing, etc.) ) however, we object to amendment no 31 (article 13 (1)), because we believe that the gsp is an instrument for reducing poverty in the world and should not be used to protect our european textile industry.
in writing. this motion for a resolution is an unmanageable mass of text in which everything that civilized people would like to see implemented is mentioned without the slightest regard for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. no one can be against the fight against poverty and unemployment and the speedy abolition of them. no one can object to taxes being uncomplicated and fair rather than complicated and unfair. however, the principle of subsidiarity, which is to be the guiding principle of european cooperation, means that the member states should be free to seek different balances in the conflicts of objectives which the democratic form of government has to deal with. the underlying aim of this proposal is to shift even more of the political decision-making from the member states to the eu institutions. the junilista has a mandate from its voters to oppose such a centralisation of power in europe and therefore rejects the proposal as a whole. we have also rejected several amendments which we would in principle support in the swedish parliament but which we oppose at eu level because of the concern for popular government in the member states. this is the case, for example, with amendment no 32.
in writing. the resolution on the lisbon strategy contains a lot of good things. however, i would have liked to see an even stronger emphasis on the importance of 'policy integration', i.e. that investment in growth must be made in ways that carefully weigh up the social and environmental consequences. these three dimensions of development must be mutually supportive. the idea of 'growth first, then we'll take care of the rest' is wrong and represents an unfortunate return to the debate before the adoption of the eu's sustainability strategy in gothenburg in 2001. the eu is facing a number of difficult environmental challenges. the risk of irreversible changes in the climate system is particularly serious. to address this problem, we need to re-engineer europe's energy and transport systems. this transition must be achieved primarily through a strong focus on innovation and the development of new technologies. such an initiative would stimulate growth and create new jobs. at the same time, european companies would develop excellence in a field where the whole world is crying out for new solutions. the commission proposal and the parliament's resolution both place sufficient emphasis on these aspects. i hope that the european council at its meeting on 22 march will give much more attention to these matters.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am glad that we have this debate, which has been initiated by the alde group. the situation with the bulgarian nurses and the palestinian doctor is truly a nightmare. for six long years these men, who have dedicated their lives to saving lives and caring for fellow humans, have been imprisoned in libya under appalling conditions. the situation is kafkaesque. the charges against them are baseless, as scientists have also proved. on 29 march a court will finally decide on the death sentences of these six people, which is why this date is of course extremely critical. the eu must do everything possible to secure the immediate release of those concerned. in just a few years, bulgaria will be a member of the european union. we therefore have a responsibility to these citizens. in the process of gradual rapprochement between the eu and libya under the barcelona process, this issue is a critical test of the direction in which relations between us can go. if the death sentences are carried out, i believe that future cooperation is impossible. at the same time, of course, it is a terrible tragedy for the children infected with aids and their families. the eu can do more. i am very pleased that the commissioner supports the action plan and sees opportunities for the eu to support libya in this way, so that there can be better care in the future for people living with hiv. mr president, this is a very important question. we expect the council and the commission to give it priority and to follow very, very closely the developments until 29 march when the court will again give its opinion on the case.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. when we take a position in this house on various issues, we must always consider whether these should really be decided at eu level. the principle of subsidiarity is not something to be referred to only in solemn contexts, but it should be the guiding principle of all our activities. we all know that this is not the way things work in brussels and strasbourg. political power is continually shifting from the member states to the eu institutions. the driving forces are twofold: the quest for a superstate and political unprincipledness. a majority of eu deputies and officials want to create a new superstate. for them, the principle of subsidiarity is not a guiding light but an inconvenient obstacle. the political unprincipledness means that the members of the house are usually prepared to participate in decisions that they like, even when it is obvious that these are strictly national matters. the end justifies the means. the locatelli report also completely ignores the principle of subsidiarity. it does not ask what the eu should do, since the member states cannot do it themselves. the question is how the eu can promote the research that an establishment wants. how are we to deal with the research needs of smes? how can we get young people and women interested in science? how can we strengthen the links between science and industry? how are we to bring total research expenditure up to 3% of gdp, and so on? all of these are matters which the member states are better placed to deal with themselves. finland and sweden already allocate 3% of gdp to research. if other countries want to set aside as much, it's up to them to do so. there will be no more money for research because the member states send it through the eu authorities. but it's more bureaucracy and more costs. competition between countries to find good solutions to this type of problem normally leads to faster progress than central governance at higher levels. in the academic world, it's called institutional competition. competition is important, not only between companies, but also between institutions. competition between countries in different fields is one of the main reasons for the great progress made by the west in recent centuries. locatelli should have asked the question: what can the eu institutions do for research in europe that the countries themselves cannot do? there are many such questions. they fall under five headings: basic research, free movement of researchers within the eu, large-scale research in areas such as fusion energy and space technology, research network infrastructure and common security issues for the eu. this is what the eu's research policy should be limited to, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, which is being celebrated in banquets and draft constitutions. the eu's research policy is on the wrong track.
mr president, this shows us that science and research last in the long run. i will continue in swedish. herr talman! den resolution vi har antagit adderar europeiskt mervärde till både forskningspolitik och ekonomisk utveckling. hela den resolution om lissabonstrategin som har antagits av parlamentet i dag med mycket stor majoritet, och som vi från alde-gruppen har lagt ned mycket arbete på, är grundad på kunskapen att en hållbar utveckling bygger på både ekonomisk tillväxt, social sammanhållning och miljömässiga hänsyn. den forskningspolitik och det betänkande som vi diskuterar i dag, hjälper till att bygga en hållbar ekonomisk tillväxt genom att satsa på excellens och teknikplattformar, hjälper till att skapa den sociala sammanhållning vi vill ha, bl.a. mellan män och kvinnor i ett genderperspektiv samt mellan olika regioner. dessutom hjälper de till att producera de medel som behövs för vårt trygghetssystem och ser till att vi kan fortsätta arbeta med miljödriven teknikutveckling. det gläder mig att detta arbete har samma balans som den antagna lissabonresolutionen, och jag ser fram emot ramprogrammet.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am sure that commissioner frattini has read our questions and will certainly answer them tonight. i am also sure that he knows that parliament is in favour of a balanced approach when law enforcement meets the issue of privacy, as in this case with data retention. we have spent the whole day discussing the lisbon process and how to become more competitive. it is not the right time to impose on companies, authorities and citizens huge costs for which we have no impact assessment, that is to say, no evidence. it seems to me completely unreasonable and illogical to take decisions before they have been established, while at the same time discussing competitiveness and lisbon. it would be unreasonable to let the citizens pay for this surveillance themselves. i believe that it must always be the person who requests the information who pays. otherwise, the big brother society will benefit. moreover, it is not established that this approach is necessary, which must be the case before any decisions can be taken. if the commission makes a proposal, it is logical that the member states should withdraw theirs. i hope and believe that mr frattini understands that it is wise, even necessary, to ensure that the protection of the privacy of citizens in the third pillar is at least as good as that in the first pillar. i share the view of my colleagues that it would be interesting to hear how you intend to deal with this.
mr president, i would like to thank you. on the question of passenger data transfer, i would like to agree with the question marks and criticisms put forward by my colleagues from the green group and the pse group. i myself would like to concentrate my speech on the question of the storage of personal data. the proposal now before the council is a very clear conflict between personal privacy and respect for the private sphere, on the one hand, and the need for surveillance by society, on the other. i think this proposal goes too far as a violation of privacy. it is based on the observation of people without suspicion of crime. it's actually based on some kind of underlying suspicion of everyone. this is in clear violation of the european convention on human rights, in particular article 8 thereof on the protection of private and family life, the protection of one's home and the right to correspondence. the eu member states have signed this council of europe convention with the idea that the eu as an institution should do the same. are we serious about this if we can at the same time pass legislation which is a clear breach of international conventions? this is a key issue of credibility which the commission must address. another important point is the strong criticism of this proposal by the so-called article 29 group. these are some of the leading experts we have in the union on data protection. it would also be interesting to hear the commission comment on the criticism of the article 29 group in this area. it is in crisis that the rule of law is tested, and it is in crisis that the rule of law is most needed to protect citizens, including against unjustified surveillance by society itself. we have seen, after the terrorist attacks in the united states a few years ago, that this border is getting closer and closer as we cross it. it is important to uphold the fundamental values of the rule of law. the commission and the council must also be prepared to debate this legislation in good time. we have discussed these questions too often, too many times without answers, and then it was too late.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the member who honestly declared his interests. today the commission is my ally, even though the reform does not go far enough. sugar policy is driven by big industry and the selfishness of the big farmers. small farmers, consumers and poor countries are affected. the present sugar policy in the eu has a few thousand winners and 450 million losers. when you consider the impact on millions of poor people around the world, today's politics is a scandal. my colleagues on the committee on agriculture are welcome to mali in april to defend today's report before the acp-eu assembly. the committee on development and the committee on agriculture should share responsibility. weakening reform will literally lead to famine and misery. it is hypocritical to defend in today's proposal subsidised sugar production in every corner of the eu while at the same time demanding total reform in all the poor countries. everyone has to do their part. finally, the commission the criticism of the 'everything but arms' initiative is wrong. the problem is not that the 'everything but arms' initiative exists, but that it is not complemented by social considerations, environmental considerations and guarantees for small farmers.
in writing. the moderate delegation voted yes to the resolution, but would like to highlight some problems we see with the text. the resolution regards women in the world as a homogeneous group, which we consider very unfortunate because the situation of women in the various countries differs very dramatically. the situation of women in the third world is being confused with the situation of women in europe as if they were comparable problems. problems such as war rape, honour killings and genital mutilation cannot be compared with the number of father's months, lifelong learning and quotas as has been done in the resolution. the resolution mixes issues that belong at eu level with those that are clearly national issues or purely individual decisions. we would prefer to focus on women in the third world, where women are in a very vulnerable situation. the third world is a major issue which the eu should highlight in its common foreign and security policy and in its aid policy. we had hoped that the resolution would protect equal rights for men and women and defend human rights throughout the world.
in writing. we moderates do not believe that the issue of human egg trafficking should be dealt with in the way that it is now dealt with in a resolution. the resolution we are voting on today has not been the subject of detailed preparation. nor does it illuminate this whole complex issue of inherent moral and ethical considerations. it is not reasonable to call for a categorical ban on the trade in ova and embryos. women who are unable to have children of their own will always be able to make arrangements with other women who are willing to donate eggs. childlessness is a very painful trauma for many. it would be a mistake to criminalise such agreements. the issue of egg donation involves very complex moral considerations. both the question of what interventions in reproduction should be allowed and the consequences for both the donor and the childless who want help need more light than the present resolution provides. the reason why we are voting for the resolution is the situation which is at the root of the resolution, namely the exploitation of poor women in romania, which we take seriously without knowing all the facts.
in writing. nuclear weapons pose, not only in countries like north korea and iran, a serious threat to our global security. the junilists support the call for the limitation of the proliferation of nuclear weapons, which should lead in the long term to the elimination of all nuclear weapons. the united nations (un), with its experience, expertise and global reach, is the best organisation to ensure the success of the 2005 non-proliferation treaty. that is why the un must be the priority in the global disarmament effort. the resolution, however, contains proposals that progressively strengthen the eu's foreign and defence policy role, which risks weakening the un's position.
in writing. we welcome the development of a peaceful and democratic lebanon as an important part of a peaceful and democratic middle east. we are opposed to the constant attempts to strengthen the eu's foreign and defence policy role, but we welcome the fact that individual european countries are taking their responsibilities and are participating in the peace process. this means that the eu is taking resources that would have been better managed by the united nations. this in turn leads to a weakening of the world community.
in writing. i abstained on the vote on hezbollah because 'any necessary action' against terrorist activities would mean that they too were put on the terrorist list. the environment party opposes the terrorist list as it does not have objective criteria and the decisions cannot be appealed, no rights are given to those who are put on the list. hezbollah has many parliamentarians and civil activities and the complex situation of its status in lebanon is not resolved by total struggle against all parts of the organization.
in writing. we abstained on the request that the commission should defend the proposal that the eu budget should amount to well over 1% of gdp. we want to give priority to the lisbon strategy, where research is an important part. however, it is too early to commit ourselves at this stage to the level of the eu budget.
in writing. in view of article 44 the world's most important environmental problem is global warming. the eu has joined the kyoto protocol, whose main objective is to reduce carbon emissions. expansion of nuclear power is one of the most important means of reducing these. that is why i want to support all aspects of eu nuclear research. however, i do not support eu defence research. this is a matter for individual countries to decide or agree among themselves.
in writing. we support a comprehensive reform of the eu sugar market with a view to liberalising it as soon as possible and allowing sugar-producing countries outside the eu to compete on fair terms. the resolution does not take the question of the eu sugar market in this direction, since all the amendments to parliament's resolution tabled by mr van den berg to that effect were rejected. we have therefore voted against the motion for a resolution.
in writing. i believe that it is of the utmost importance that the eu's agricultural policy, including the organisation of the sugar market, be reformed. the current systems cost a lot of money and, in addition, the high level of agricultural subsidies today means that eu products are dumped on the world market, with serious consequences for developing countries. today the european parliament voted on a resolution following an oral question by mr joseph daul and mr jean-claude fruteau. i chose to vote against the resolution as a whole, as the main thrust of the resolution is to preserve the status quo. sugar producers in certain developing countries will also be affected by the reform of the common organisation of the market in sugar. these are now relatively favoured by the present system. however, their situation should not be resolved by a less far-reaching reform of the sugar market. instead, these countries should be supported through other measures such as increased development cooperation and trade technical assistance.
in writing. today the european parliament voted on a resolution following an oral question by mr joseph daul and mr jean-claude fruteau. i chose to vote against the resolution as a whole, as the main thrust of the resolution is to preserve the status quo. reform of the eu's agricultural policy - including the organisation of the sugar market - is of paramount importance. the current system costs the eu taxpayer a lot of money to maintain, and the high level of agricultural subsidies currently means that eu products are dumped on the world market, with serious consequences for the export and production capacity of developing countries. the reform of the common organisation of the market in sugar will affect not only european sugar producers but also producers in certain developing countries, which are currently relatively well served by the current system. however, their situation should not be resolved by a less far-reaching reform of the sugar market. instead, these countries should be supported through increased development cooperation and trade technical assistance - proposed to be drawn from the resources released in the context of the sugar reform. finally, it is important to allow these countries a sufficient transitional period to adapt to the new situation.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner for his answer to the question. as has been rightly pointed out, the tibetans are being denied their most basic political and democratic rights. what we are seeing, and have seen for a long time, is the systematic destruction of their cultural heritage and of their ability to practice their religion. the example given by the commissioner, namely that monks are imprisoned for having portraits of the dalai lama, is just one example of the absurdity of this oppression. as you know, the eu has said this on several occasions. the question is, is it enough? it would be interesting to hear more about your plans for the future. how to increase pressure on china on the tibet issue? china today is an economic and political giant that is also increasingly becoming a global player. however, we must be clear about china. the positive economic development is in no way matched by a corresponding positive democratic development. we don't see any of that today. on the contrary, part of china's economic progress is based on the systematic denial of the most basic rights to its own workers. the china policy therefore becomes a test of the eu's credibility in human rights issues. economic interests are opposed to the support of the political and democratic rights of tibetans and other chinese. that is the test the eu must pass. it would be completely unreasonable to do what is now being proposed, namely to lift the arms embargo against china. it's giving two signals at once. it is criticising in words, but at the same time showing in action that it wants a different relationship with china and does not care much about the oppression. the eu must take a more consistent stance.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have a very tough resolution against belarus before us, but unfortunately it is also the bitter reality. belarus is now in the twilight zone, and the future looks darker and darker. i think that one point could have been made even more clear in this resolution, namely the repression of the free trade union movement in belarus. it's an important part of the country's democratic opposition. parts of this movement are today being crushed by the lukashenko regime. belarus is today a country that is becoming increasingly isolated in europe. this is of course also true of relations with the eu. it is a path chosen by the president of belarus and thus also affects the belarusian people. it is therefore all the more important to show that this policy of isolation against belarus is directed against the country's rulers and not against the belarusian people. what we need today is more contacts with the civil society organisations in belarus, with the democratic opposition, with independent media, with the free trade unions who are still fighting against the authoritarian rule of president lukashenko. at the same time, we should perhaps pursue an even tougher sanctions policy against those who are running belarusian society today. there is no alternative! countries around the region are in the process of democratizing, for example in ukraine and other countries. of course, the day will come when belarus too will be democratized and can be included in wider european cooperation.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner and council! this area of law is still very much in its infancy, although in all fairness it must also be said that a great deal has happened in the last ten years. if you look at the tone and spirit of the vote on the action plan against organised crime, for example, you can see that there is at least a different rhetoric today than there was then nationally. but there is a serious imbalance. the member states are neglecting fundamental human rights. the spirit of the new treaty, which includes new democracy and respect for fundamental rights, cannot be ignored. the views of the european parliament cannot be left to chance at a time when we are working on the implementation of this very treaty. this is about opening up dialogue. before discussing the issue of data retention, it is time to discuss whether such measures are at all reasonable. frattini has a very important responsibility and i support what he said in his speech. despite the best intentions of the luxembourg presidency, many in this parliament are wondering where the objectives and priorities are really going in the council as a whole. data storage and surveillance are serious interferences with the freedom of citizens. we in this parliament cannot accept that it be pushed through without cooperation with parliament on this issue. we look forward to the future of frattini's efforts.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the right to a fair trial is one of the most fundamental human rights. yet this fundamental right is being violated in all our member states. i myself have followed the case of a british citizen in sweden and that of a swedish citizen in greece where the right to interpretation into his mother tongue has not been respected. in the case of calle jonsson, a swedish citizen, the family has been forced to sell their house and borrow €50,000 to cover the costs of interpreting. this is obviously not acceptable in any way. at the same time, there is the whole of the great european convention on human rights and civil liberties. there is extensive case law from the court of justice in strasbourg. what we need to add to the european parliament and the european union is the dimension of compliance with these rules that this parliament, the commission and the council can add. when i listened to the luxembourg representative earlier, i was very concerned because i think it is important that the council representative should speak out in all circumstances for the full respect of human rights and the right to a fair trial. i think the rapporteur has done a very good job. much remains to be done in terms of access to a lawyer, legal translation and minimum standards in general, as well as the protection of the suspect in a trial. it should be understood that a suspect is not always the same as a convicted person. the judicial process is intended to separate the innocent from the guilty, and it is important to ensure that there is sufficient support in this context. today's debate and the decisions we will take in parliament will not be enough, but further action will be required.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would first like to thank all those involved for the work they have helped us with and the willingness to cooperate that has existed among the agencies. discharge is not just a matter of how money is used properly. it is also about how to achieve the objectives of the programmes and how to achieve efficiency in general. i would therefore like to emphasise the gender aspect. we have an obligation to achieve the equality objectives we have set. i have to say it's a scandal that only half the agencies have gender equality plans. this is something they must correct before next year, otherwise i will not give them a discharge. the reforms will be accelerated if we achieve real equality. old hierarchical and patriarchal decision-making systems and working methods will be broken up. today, almost all agencies have 4/5 men in the top positions and 4/5 or more women in the bottom positions. i can see that we in the european parliament are no better. in addition, in many countries we now have a situation where more women than men are entering university studies. there should be a good recruitment base to change this situation. another issue i would like to raise is the european agency for reconstruction. as you know, it was an official who was suspected of helping a company in a procurement of energy infrastructure. here is an example of how a scandal should be handled. the director immediately suspended the official, immediately handed the documents to olaf, which started its investigation quickly and was completed within ten months. the judicial authorities were informed and the proceedings could be started quickly. we are also now waiting for the commission to complete the disciplinary procedure. if we could deal with scandals in this way and stop covering them up and trying to hide them, our institutions would function better. this shows how important transparency is. however efficient the court of auditors may be, it can never discover everything. but if we have a public policy, we have 450 million citizens who can control what everyone does. it is the best preventive measure against fraud and corruption.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. terence wynn has done a brilliant job, as has, for example, the co-rapporteur, carl schlyter. but our parliamentary control system is inadequate. the eu's reputation and legitimacy are very low among the european population, and rightly so. the key words that come to mind for an average european citizen are top management, establishment, waste, corruption. why is it this way? it turns out that institutional control through the court of auditors, olaf and the committee on budgetary control is not enough. it's not working. there continues to be a lot of irregularities and corruption in our system. it also turns out that free speech, democratic debate, journalists digging in, i.e. external auditors of that kind, are not working either, they are not enough. what does it take? it also requires what we call whistle blowers. we need officials in the entire eu machinery, in all bodies and at all levels, who are loyal not to their superiors but to the citizens and taxpayers of europe. we have had whistle blowers, famous ones, rewritten all over the world: van buitenen, mart andreasen, hans-peter martin, the list goes on. how have those who have exposed, called attention to, the fraud in the system fared? usually you lose your job. now we have another example of such a deal in the committee of the regions. i therefore call on parliament to support our amendment no 2 to section vii, paragraph 12, by geoffrey titford, jens-peter bonde and myself. this has to stop.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in most languages there are proverbs that require one to clean one's home before demanding anything from others. that's why it's important that we get our benefits in order. travel allowances are not compensation for wages but travel allowances which should be paid after actual costs. if we want to equalize wages, we will have an extra budget line which is publicly announced. my colleague staes explained the problems with the pension fund, the supplementary pension. it should be self-financed and the deficits covered by those who participate. it is unreasonable for the taxpayers to bear the loss when stock speculation fails and the participants to reap the profits if it succeeds. our general expenses are generous. if you want to get the full amount, you should report how you spent it. those who can't do that should be paid less. it is true that it takes time to report, but it is time well spent to increase the credibility of parliament. during the campaign, i noticed that the section of the information on the rules for our benefits has disappeared from the public website. since it's not classified, it should be published there immediately. it's one of the most common questions you get from your constituents. i hope that the rapporteur's amendment no 6 and the other amendments which strengthen the text will be supported.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there are many points i would like to make in connection with what we are about to discuss: the discharge for the 2003 budget. weaknesses in the accounting system, failure of member states to recover funds wrongly paid, excesses in the remuneration of members or the european development fund. but the limited time i have here makes me want to focus on a smaller but fundamentally important - and from the point of view of the citizens, completely incomprehensible - part of the union budget: the subsidies for tobacco farming. each year, european taxpayers are forced to pay nearly 10 billion swedish crowns in subsidies to tobacco farmers. it is a terrible waste and a rather scary way of dealing with the taxpayers' money. in addition, the tobacco subsidized by the eu is of such poor quality that no european producer wants to use it. instead, it is used to compete with tobacco companies in poor countries. the grants to tobacco growers are made no less bizarre by the fact that the commission has now launched an anti-smoking campaign estimated to cost sek 700 million. i would call it the height of hypocrisy. in the debate on the commission's discharge, parliament can make it clear that tobacco subsidies must be abolished. but unfortunately, with his voting rights in the committee on budgetary control, nils lundgren of the junist party has ensured that we have a parliamentary situation today where the european parliament is likely to defend the most shameful agricultural subsidies. i appreciate that lundgren yesterday publicly acknowledged that he was wrong, the problem is that the damage has already been done. the fact remains that, although junilista promised before the european elections to work for the abolition of tobacco subsidies, the most lasting result to date of junilista's election to parliament is that it has helped to ensure the survival of tobacco subsidies. i hope and believe that parliament in plenary will do everything in its power to correct the actions of nils lundgren and vote in favour of an opinion stating that parliament wants to see the tobacco subsidies abolished.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i have not been able to listen to most of the debate because of a late flight, but i am well acquainted with the arguments and i would like to start by congratulating mrs glenys kinnock on an excellent report. the mdgs are first and foremost a moral issue. the enormous differences in standards that exist in today's world are becoming increasingly absurd. we have both the knowledge and the resources to eradicate poverty today, and there is no excuse not to step up our efforts. i welcome this report, which contains a number of constructive proposals which i hope will influence the work of the commission in the coming months. the millennium development goals will certainly not be easy to achieve. increased efforts are needed in the industrialised countries, but also on the recipient side. we need a fairer trading system, and corruption is a big problem and must be fought hard. we need more money, but we also need more effective aid. the lack of coordination of donor efforts is a major problem. similarly, the lack of dialogue so far within the eu on who should do what between the member states and the commission is a major problem. of course, the content is also central. let me just mention one area that is too often neglected in development cooperation. i am thinking of the management of natural resources. the poor majority in the countryside are completely dependent on what nature produces. the decimation and loss of quality of forests, pastures, arable land and freshwater resources is therefore a very serious development. a major analysis of this, the so-called millennium assessment, was presented last week and is a discouraging read. the destruction of the natural resource base is accelerating across much of the world and is a major obstacle to the achievement of the millennium development goals. i expect that this aspect of development cooperation will receive much more attention in the commission's future work. once again, thank you to glenys kinnock.
in writing. the junilists abstained in the vote on this report. the report is an own-initiative report based mainly on the commission communication on short sea shipping. the european parliament would never have had to produce this document. we understand that the commission may need to evaluate shipping activities in order to examine how the internal market can be better developed. but we do not think it is necessary for the european parliament to write a report on this subject at this stage.
in writing. the eu's definition of common minimum standards for basic common legal safeguards for suspects and accused persons in criminal matters may seem to be commendable. the proposal is, however, part of the establishment of a common criminal justice system. guarantees of these minimum rights are already provided for in the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, which has been signed by all the member states. it is doubtful whether the principle of subsidiarity has been respected and whether there is any legal basis in the treaty for the harmonisation of the criminal justice systems of the member states. in addition, legal uncertainty will arise as to whether the european court of justice or the court of justice of the european communities has a primacy of interpretation. the junilista therefore votes against the proposal.
in writing. it is a new commission that can hardly be held responsible for what the old one has done. however, the follow-up and recovery of funds wrongly paid remains a problem for the new commission, where more action is needed. the main reason for refusing discharge is that not all members of the committee have been given all the documents they requested in order to be able to scrutinise the commission.
in writing. taxpayers' money must always be treated with the utmost respect. of course, trustees must follow established codes of conduct. it must be the discretion of the elected representative to decide how best to use the appropriations for the performance of the mandate. what literature and newspapers one reads cannot be subject to the control of others, what telephone calls are legitimate can never be decided by other politicians, politicians should not have to disclose who they consult or talk to. they need to be able to protect sources and voter contacts. in this context, we have voted against the requirement of annual audits of the remuneration of members. on one point, we were forced to vote for an annual audit for technical reasons, because we support the demand that the deficit of the european parliament's pension fund should not be covered by public funds. a majority of members of the european parliament must never be allowed to influence the ability of other elected members to represent their party and their country. swedish meps are accountable to swedish voters for their actions and not to political opponents in other countries. we have therefore voted against the possibility for parliament to suspend members from office.
in writing. the global fight against poverty is an urgent issue that requires a comprehensive international commitment. however, junilista considers that this issue should not be dealt with within the framework of eu cooperation. the eu member states will decide on the level of assistance and any debt cancellations. international cooperation in the fight against poverty shall take place within the framework of un cooperation. the un has extensive experience in working to combat poverty and is the international organisation best placed to manage international cooperation in this area. the fight against hiv/aids is best conducted within the world health organisation (who). the junilista is seeking limited eu cooperation. we oppose the union's pursuit of influence and competence in matters already dealt with by existing international organisations.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i agree with much of the description that the commissioners are making. it's good about the integrated document. we haven't been able to fully achieve that in the last few years. this is not just the case for young people, it is also the case for the older workforce, the disabled, people from other cultures. i would like to raise a point which is linked to the second and third parts, namely structural change. we see structural change today very much as a threat, but i think it should be seen as a challenge. it is firstly a matter of safeguarding human capital, i.e. training the workforce; secondly, of ensuring the safety of the labour market, since secure people can also be involved in the process of change; and thirdly, of involving employees not only when something has happened, but in the whole process of change. then it's about influence in the workplace. i was wondering if you had any comments on that?
replacement of the questioner. president. - the debate is closed. thank you, commissioner, for that very, very interesting and thorough reply. the situation of women in turkey is important and i would like to raise another issue in the context of the accession negotiations. a large demonstration of women was held in turkey on 8 march, international women's day. it was brutally beaten down by the police. these officers were immediately suspended and the turkish ambassador in brussels has been to the european parliament to tell about this and explain what turkey is doing. since this is incompatible with the requirements we are imposing on a country that is to negotiate membership with the eu, i wonder if commissioner rehn knows whether turkey has taken any further action in the judicial system following this police brutality?
for the ind/dem group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is equally frustrating whenever eu budgetary issues are discussed. the demands for increased appropriations for new areas of expenditure are made without addressing the fundamental problems. let me remind you of three such problems. firstly, almost half of the eu's expenditure is spent on an agricultural policy which any sensible citizen without a vested interest in the matter must regard as completely unreasonable. secondly, almost a third of the additional aid is for regional aid in rich countries. we cannot possibly agree to increase the member states' contributions to the eu as long as the bulk of the money now paid in is being used in this directly harmful way. thirdly, the problems are not analysed in a reasonable social scientific way. the basic approach here is to throw money at problems. but often, perhaps most often, it's regulatory systems that determine how the economy works, not money from the government. we shall leave it to the countries to decide on these matters. that's what democracy is.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. i too would like to thank rapporteur satu hassi for her good work on this very important environmental issue. i also share the view that the result would hardly have been better if we had pushed this to a compromise, which would have been an opportunity. the sulphur emissions from many different sources have decreased significantly in recent years. a large proportion of the acidification problems have been tackled in this way. but emissions from shipping are still very high and shipping uses really dirty fuels that are not used elsewhere. the proportion of sulphur emissions from shipping is currently unacceptably high. this is why this legislation is so important. in fact, though, it could have been a lot better. the main reason why it does not take advantage of the technical possibilities we actually have to clean up emissions and fuels is the opposition of several countries in the council. but the ppe-de group in this parliament also bears some of that responsibility. at first reading, the ppe-de group for binding commitments on sulphur was at 0.5%. now they've changed, and you wonder why. the target of 0,5% sulphur content is now only included as a possibility in a future review. we're sorry to hear that. in other areas too, some steps have been taken away from what we could do. nevertheless, we will vote for this compromise, not because it is perfect, but because we believe it goes as far as we can go this time.
madam president, i would like to thank you. this is an important question, as several previous speakers have pointed out. sulphur emissions cause major problems for human health, dried up lakes, destroyed buildings and cultural heritage. it is therefore also good that we in the eu have succeeded in reducing sulphur emissions, at least from land-based sources, in recent years and that we are now taking a step forward in terms of emissions from marine fuels. at the same time, i am disappointed, as are many others here, that we have not gone further, particularly on the points that my party colleague linda mcavan has listed earlier. in this respect, parliament has proved less green than it was in the previous term. i really hope that this is an exception and that it will not be the case that this parliament is less green and less responsible for our future environment. at any rate, we are now opening up to move on to the second phase of further reducing sulphur emissions. there are many of us who will follow that it will be so in reality.
mr president, we are very worried about the current growth rate of the european economy, the high unemployment rates and all the social and environmental problems we have to deal with. therefore i am glad that a couple of weeks ago parliament adopted a resolution on the lisbon process and that a lot of its suggestions were taken into account at the spring summit. however, i am still very worried. i shall give some examples on law-making and on policies. firstly, with regard to the reach programme, it is very important that we come to a decision. that is what parliament declared unanimously a couple of weeks ago. uncertainty is very expensive. secondly, with regard to the social services directive, parliament is much more agreed on the necessity of that directive than the council. we need a firm line on this because the unemployment rate is a catastrophe for human beings and the economy. with regard to policy areas, we talk about smes and we produce very nice documents on them and on the importance of cutting red tape. now, risk capital is essential to the work of smes. at the same time that we talk about the smes, unemployment etc., in the aftermath of the lamfalussy report there are now 240 sub-groups working on new legislation for the financial markets. that is exactly the opposite of cutting red tape and getting enough risk capital for the smes. the second policy area is energy. we know that we have environmental problems, unemployment problems and regional development problems and that we need the production of biomass, district heating and trigeneration. yet there is no cooperation between agricultural policy, energy policy and industrial policy. this cooperation is necessary; it is extremely important. parliament and – i believe – the commission are determined, but the council is not being tough enough. you have to be tougher, mr juncker.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i welcome the outcome of the spring summit. let me point out four things. firstly, there is the balance of the lisbon process, which also implies an interdependence between the pillars. secondly, the strong emphasis on the european social model, which means not only more jobs but high-quality jobs, secure social security systems that need to be modernised and the reconciliation of work and family life. thirdly, i welcome the drafting of the services directive. i think there is a growing consensus on the services directive between the council and what i believe is the majority in this parliament. we need a services directive, but it should not look like the existing proposal. we must be able to preserve the european social model, we must be able to have high environmental standards and strong consumer rights. i think it is possible to make such a proposal. fourthly, sustainable development is a mainstream issue. it is about ecologically sustainable development, but it is also about economic and social sustainability to an equal extent. let me say at the end that not everything is just negative, we can be pessimistic. we have not fulfilled the lisbon process, but there are still a number who have fulfilled many requirements. i will not mention which countries have met the requirements, but when you look at those countries you can see that they have combined growth, high employment, strong social systems and high environmental standards. we have every reason to be optimistic about the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i regret to say that the council summit was a singular display of poor leadership. at a time when europe's economy is in dire need of reform, when unemployment is rising - also in sweden, mr andersson - and when euroscepticism is spreading, what is the council doing? instead of standing up for europe, of taking the lead publicly, eu leaders are backing down completely on one of the most important issues of the lisbon process, namely the services directive. the fear of various referendums is fuelling the lies and myths that strong left-wing forces are cultivating about this directive. there is no end to all the misery that is supposed to be inflicted on europe's consumers and earners if this passes. nevertheless, the council and the commission know that this directive, which has nothing to do with the new constitution, is extremely important for growth, jobs and consumers in europe. of course, no one wants to see social dumping. instead of standing up for this directive, which is what we have called for, we are helping to fuel a lot of misconceptions and mistrust. how can our citizens believe in europe when even we who work with europe every day dare not do so? (applause) i would like to thank you.
in writing. we support the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu in principle. this is a natural consequence of the enlargement of the eu to 10 member states in may 2004. enlarged cooperation - if properly implemented - can help economic development, democracy and human rights in europe. at the same time, we must not ignore the major problems that enlargement can bring if the candidate countries are not well prepared. the reports by mr moscovis and mr van orden confirm the seriousness of the problems. according to the favourable assessments of the commission and the european parliament, only the political criterion is fulfilled. the economic or administrative criterion is not fully met, but is expected to be met by 1 january 2007. the committee on agriculture and rural development has tabled a number of amendments to the draft resolution, including one on the common agricultural policy. this has to be corrected. the process of negotiation and adjustment to the eu has been going on for some eight years, which means that we are faced with the completed fact of the countries' membership. at the same time, it is important to allow the process of adaptation to continue. but if the countries are not considered to meet the requirements, the council should not hesitate to use the safeguard clause to postpone eu membership for one year.
in writing. the moderate delegation voted against the proposals on social legislation in the field of road transport and on the minimum conditions for the implementation of this legislation. both contain extensive detailed regulations, which do not necessarily improve road safety. we also believe that social policy matters should be dealt with by the individual member states and are therefore not a matter for the eu to deal with.
mr president, i would like to thank you. ladies and gentlemen! there is not much to say in two minutes, especially if we are talking about such a big issue as the western balkans. i therefore want to mention a few things that are common to all the countries in the region and to our attitude towards them. the western balkans is a region that has suffered not only from war and destruction but also from 50 years of communism. those of us who have experienced war know how easy it is to start and how difficult it is to stop. we who have experienced communism also know how long it takes to build democracy. in all these countries that we're talking about today, there's some kind of division. in croatia between democratic and non-democratic forces, in bosnia between the federation and the republika srpska and in serbia and montenegro between serbs and kosovo albanians. when we talk to these countries and make demands, we must bear this in mind and try to help the democratic forces that exist in the western balkans, but which are not always as strong or even as genuine as we think. when we talk, for example, about people accused of war crimes in republika srpska or serbia queuing up to come to the hague, not many in this parliament know that they and their families are getting a lot of money from the authorities to do so. when we talk about macedonia's voluntary participation in the negotiations on its name change, not many in this parliament know that this is only part of the truth, because only greek representatives are here and not macedonians who can present their views on this. i would also like to stress that all the decisions of this parliament are carefully considered and analysed by both the negative and the positive forces in the region. we must therefore be very careful about the signals we send to the people of these countries, whether we are talking about the demands for the return of refugees to kosovo, the change of macedonia's name or croatia's future membership of the eu. whatever we do, our support must go to those who are fighting for peaceful and democratic development and our sanctions must go to those who are obstructing it.
president of the council. the question of the inclusion of the shiite movement hezbollah on the list of terrorist organisations has been examined on several occasions by the council bodies and remains open. the honourable member is aware that a decision to this effect must satisfy the conditions laid down in common position 931/2001 and that it requires unanimity. furthermore, in its conclusions of 16 march 2005, the council reaffirmed its support for a sovereign, independent and democratic lebanon and reiterated its call for the full and immediate implementation of unscr 1559, which calls in particular for the disarmament of militias present on lebanese territory. the european council meeting in brussels on 22 and 23 march 2005 confirmed this approach.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i should like to thank the presidency for its reply to my question. however, that is not really an answer to the question i asked, because this is not about disarming various organizations in lebanon, but about ensuring that the peace process in the middle east can continue in stable forms. we know that terrorism is the most serious threat to its continuation. we know that iran, through hezbollah, is financing and supporting terrorism, that iran has the clear intention, clearly stated on various occasions, to work to annihilate israel. if we do not complain to iran that it is unacceptable to support terrorist acts, if we do not declare hezbollah a terrorist organisation, then the question must be asked: in what way is hezbollah not a terrorist organization? and how can we make it clear to iran that it cannot be allowed to support terrorism?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am pleased to note that we are discussing here tonight matters which really should be discussed and decided in this house. unfortunately, it is all too common for members to engage in debate and decision-making which, under the principle of subsidiarity, has no place in this house, but in this case the matter is clear. the eu has a common trade policy. parliament therefore has strong grounds for monitoring compliance with the rules of global free trade. such a system is the most important way to increase prosperity in both poor and rich countries, but it requires that individual countries and trade blocs do not pursue protectionism, often in the form of tariffs and other trade barriers. it may also take the form of subsidies or special rules for certain production to attract or retain activities which would otherwise not be able to compete internationally. such matters are regulated by the wto. i join the other speakers in this house who have called for the commission to take swift action against countries and states in unions that are in breach of wto rules. it is important, however, to distinguish in principle between prohibited and permitted measures, between pro-production policies and dumping. it is not unacceptable to choose a generally low level of taxation to promote growth. what is not allowed is to favour selected companies or sectors with tax advantages. it's called tax evasion. it is also permissible to have relatively low ambitions in a country's environmental policy during a phase when the country is poor and must prioritise growth. that's what rich countries do today when they were poor. what is unacceptable is to grant special exemptions from existing environmental requirements in order to favour individual companies or sectors. it's called environmental dumping. i note that the commission, in its analysis and its actions, clearly distinguishes between legitimate rules to promote growth and prosperity and illegitimate dumping practices.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as we have heard today, there are several examples of how it is still easier for a hammer to cross the baltic sea than for a carpenter to go along and hammer a nail. i therefore welcome the proposal for a services directive which will soon allow us to speak of four freedoms - the free movement of goods, services, people and capital - and not just three as is the case today. however, in the present treaty, several of the things that are happening in my own country, sweden, for example, with state-sanctioned and explicit discrimination against people from the new member states are totally unacceptable. let me give a very brief but very frightening and unfortunately far from unique example of how trade unions and public authorities together deny the new members of the eu access to the internal market. the swedish case started with a municipality building a school, and as a consequence of complying with european public procurement rules, a latvian construction company (lp-bygg) was hired. soon the construction union was there, blocking the work site, stopping work, carrying signs and chanting "go home, go home". it was argued that the reason was that the latvian company was obliged to sign a swedish collective agreement and that the latvian one, although it paid better than the swedish one, was not valid. the decision was made: the latvians would go out. the company appealed to the authorities and the labour court, in which the union sits, naturally ruled in favour of the trade union movement. our minister of labour, who has recently been the head of the trade union movement, also took a stand for the trade union movement. it's times like this that i'm ashamed to be swedish. exactly one week ago, the latvian company was forced into bankruptcy. the result is that we have schoolchildren without school, taxpayers with extra charges and unemployed people. all this in order to ensure that the privileged society on the swedish labour market continues to function. buoyed by its success, the union is now running a campaign around the country with the support of the government to demand that people who do not "look really swedish should wear clear id badges". this is unacceptable and i wonder what the commission intends to do to put an end to this racism and protectionism which is raging in europe. (applause) i would like to thank you.
in writing. despite good practice, the current fisheries policy still means that the eu is buying the right to exploit the natural resources of the poor. it's a modern form of colonialism. we need a real reform of fisheries policy and a complete change of approach to our relations with the poor countries. we have therefore voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. the kuhne report deals with the european security strategy and the brok report deals with the eu's common defence and security policy. we are voting against both resolutions as a whole because they aim to further militarize eu cooperation and make the union a great power that speaks with a voice in international contexts. this development is leading to a large amount of resources going to the eu that could be better used in other organisations. we believe that the osce and the council of europe should be given priority in conflict prevention work at european level. at the global level, the united nations - with its reach, experience and legitimacy - is the most appropriate. the un should also have the primary responsibility for global disarmament and for preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and weapons of mass destruction. the un should also be provided with resources for military crisis management. there is no reason to lift the arms embargo against china, because human rights demands are not being met. strict control of swedish exports of war material should be encouraged. we oppose brok's call for the proposals in the eu constitution to strengthen the eu's defence and security policy to be implemented already - even though the constitution has not been approved in all countries and thus has not formally entered into force. it shows a startling arrogance towards the voters of europe.
the commission proposal aims to tackle the excessive fish mortality and the problems of adequate reproduction in these areas. the international council for the exploration of the sea, for example, reported that the mortality of fisheries has led to such a low level of juvenile cod and sea trout in the cantabrian sea and the iberian peninsula that the stocks are no longer replenished by reproduction and are now threatened with collapse. there is no reason to vote for a watered-down version of the commission's proposal, which is what the committee on fisheries voted for, once the commission takes steps to deal with the problems. we need a real reform of fisheries policy and a complete change of approach to our relationship with poor countries and to the sustainable use of our natural resources. i have therefore voted against the two reports.
in writing. we support the accession of croatia, serbia and montenegro, bosnia and herzegovina, macedonia and albania to the eu. when countries fully meet the copenhagen criteria, they should become members. it is a natural development of the enlargement of the eu which began with the 10 new member states in may 2004. we are, however, opposed to the strengthening of the eu's foreign policy, which is in many respects the aim of the resolution.
in writing. in general, i support the development of the common foreign and security policy. in some emergencies, it is natural to use both military and civilian resources. at the same time, it is important that humanitarian principles are not watered down or that humanitarian operations are not used for military purposes (as has unfortunately happened in iraq and afghanistan). it is also important to ensure that resources earmarked for long-term development cooperation are not used for other purposes. for these reasons, i have chosen to abstain because the wording of both paragraphs 45 and 46 may allow for arbitrariness in these aspects.
in writing. we consider the fight against doping in sport to be a very important issue. it is so important that it must be dealt with by the national parliament in each of the member states. we do not consider sport and sports to be eu affairs. we demand, however, that each member state have effective control of the eu's external borders and combat the trade in illegal drugs. the draft resolution, in recital e, refers to the fact that the treaty establishing a constitution for europe provides an appropriate legal basis for the development and implementation of community action in the field of sport. one of the reasons for opposing the draft eu constitution is precisely that it unreasonably regulates matters which are for the member states to decide. we therefore vote against this resolution.
in writing. we see this as a matter between the member states and unesco, even though the council of ministers has authorized the commission to negotiate on behalf of the eu those parts of the unesco draft text which fall within the eu's competence. we believe that these issues should not be on the eu's table. it is absurd that the eu should speak with one voice for 25 member states on issues concerning the diversity of cultural content and artistic expression. we have therefore voted against the final vote on this resolution.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. imagine that in one of our member states, former ministers are being bombed, journalists are being killed, opposition politicians are being murdered and people are being imprisoned and tortured by paramilitary forces. imagine that this would happen in your own country. we would then be discussing this every day in parliament, we would be demanding immediate action, we would be tackling the problems as quickly as possible. this is precisely what the government of bangladesh has failed to do. these problems have not been addressed in time and with the necessary force. this is particularly regrettable because bangladesh has long been a country where women have had great freedom and the opportunity to exercise their political power. bangladesh has in many ways been seen as a positive example of positive development both economically and politically. all of this is now in danger of being demolished unless the government of the country takes action. i think we should do everything in our power to help solve the problems and improve the situation in bangladesh. i think it is sad that there are colleagues here who want to weaken the resolution when we know how serious the problems are. i hope that today we will have a majority to retain the resolution without it being weakened by amendments which try to describe reality differently from what it is. i am glad that we have finally taken this initiative and put bangladesh on the agenda. their people need our support, and that's what we can do today.
mr president, commissioner špidla, citizens on the stand and colleagues! like the others, i welcome the debate on roma in the eu. i also welcome all roma as members of the european union. despite the prohibition of discrimination, the first article of the un, 12-15 million roma live in a vulnerable situation. the 7-9 million roma in the eu, as many as the population of sweden, are present in most eu member states but no country gives the group proper recognition as its largest ethnic minority. discrimination is also increasing. since 2000, when sweden ratified the council of europe's framework convention for the protection of national minorities and the european charter for regional or minority languages, the romani language has been recognised as a minority language in sweden, but this is not enough to break the exclusion. the whole of the eu must protect the position of the roma and in particular the vulnerable position of women and children. we must work with roma women to make them part of our gender equality policy, particularly in the areas of protection of reproductive and sexual health and promotion of family planning, education for children and increased participation in political decision-making. i listened to commissioner špidla's report, thank you for it, and i would like to ask commissioner špidla, who is responsible for gender equality in the commission, if there is anything more we can do specifically for women's and children's rights and against exclusion, because the roma cause is the responsibility of the whole of the eu. i call for a vote on the resolution.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her excellent work. in 2000, when the report on the modernisation of social security systems was discussed, i was the rapporteur. when we put forward the strategy, we discussed for the first time the open method of coordination and health care together with pensions and other issues. in health care, organisation and financing are national issues which in some countries are dealt with at regional level, and should be allowed to do so in the future. the question is whether there is a european added value to cooperation, and the answer is yes, because the challenges we face are common. you have pointed out some of them, and i want to mention two. the technological advances that enable us to do more things are, of course, positive advances that enable more cures. but it also calls for greater priorities in the future. we also live longer, which is fortunate, but which also puts a greater strain on health care systems. here we can have an exchange of experience of best practice, best practices. it is important, as many have pointed out, to focus on preventive care. in this context i myself raised the question of the need for a developed occupational health system, because many illnesses and other problems arise in working life. knowing the environment and being able to intervene early is important for health care. i do not see the person who receives health care services primarily as a customer but as a patient. it has to do with the view that health care is not a commercial service but a service driven by needs which i do not think should be in the services directive, a view which has also been expressed by some others here. the services directive is primarily concerned with commercial services, whereas this is a public service and should be treated in that context.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to make a few comments on the resolution before us. there has been a very high level of legislative activity in recent years, almost too high in my view. i would say that the costs to the financial sector of implementing all these new laws are quite high and growing. just to bring in the whole basel ii directive is costing the banks a lot of money. i therefore want to limit the legislative ambitions in the future and slow down the process somewhat. i welcome, for example, the fact that we did not come forward with legislative proposals in the clearing and settlement area. let competition work, there is no risk of monopoly. technological progress is so rapid that competition from new players is breaking down old monopolies. one area where i do not want to see new legislation is the area of corporate governance. it's a field that deals with corporate governance. let the market regulate itself here. if germany wants its corporate governance rules, they can have them. if england wants its rules, they can have them. in the long run, the financial market will determine which system is most trusted. it will attract the interest of investors. i believe in institutional competition. do not create a common code regulated by any directorate of the european commission. too much regulation will lead to systemic congestion. once a law is made, it's almost impossible to change. the risk is that we will have a financial market filled with legal disputes, litigation, court rulings and even more legislative measures to close the loopholes in the legislation. the words 'harmonisation' and 'level playing field' have become the gateway to a stifling legalist system, but open up the possibility of mutual acceptance of each other's systems. the responsibility for financial market supervision should not be concentrated in the eu, but rather there is a need for better cooperation between local national supervisory bodies. i do not want to see a new super-financial inspectorate in the eu.
in writing. we consider that the legal basis given for the regulation in question is incorrect. the extension of the schengen convention to allow the bodies responsible for issuing vehicle registration certificates in the member states to access data in the schengen information system cannot be based on the common transport legislation. this is a third pillar issue, which concerns judicial and police cooperation. it is for the council, not the parliament, to decide on these matters. the junilista has therefore voted against the amendments.
in writing. pollution from households, agriculture and industry is increasing. it's deteriorating the quality of the groundwater. when groundwater is polluted, the consequences are more long-lasting than in the case of surface water pollution. groundwater is an important resource for drinking water, industrial and agricultural processes. therefore, it should be protected for current and future use. we social democrats therefore welcome the commission's initiative for a new framework for groundwater. however, groundwater is different in the eu. therefore, it is difficult to find a common standard that is suitable for all groundwater resources in the eu and that at the same time provides the most positive result for the environment. we believe that an approach which took greater account of the wide diversity of groundwater resources in different parts of the eu would have been more beneficial for the environment.
in writing. the junilists are elected with the mandate that only cross-border environmental issues are decided at eu level. the council shall play a central role in this decision-making process. groundwater is partly a transboundary issue. we regret that the groundwater directive does not refer to the principle of subsidiarity more. the directive on the protection of groundwater against pollution should therefore be proposed for a period of three years, to be replaced by a directive which takes account of the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. the moderate delegation voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation amending the regulation establishing a european fund for the improvement of living and working conditions. we believe that it is important to keep the composition of the fund's board of directors and its working methods under review in order to make the european fund for the improvement of living and working conditions more effective. however, it is problematic if this review is to be carried out by the whole of the european parliament, since few people know how the fund works. we also believe that recruitment should be based on the merits of the applicant and should be gender neutral. it is in the interest of the organisation to have a board of directors with different skills and experience, but there should be no political control over recruitment.
in writing. we believe that a well-functioning internal market in the eu is important. of course, the new member states will also have to adapt to this. we are, however, opposed to the political positions in the explanatory statement of the report and to the commission's allocation of additional resources to develop professional organisations in the new member states.
in writing. the report is about the annual report on human rights in the world and the eu's policy on the matter. the eu has a responsibility for human rights in its immediate area, which mainly includes potential eastern and central european member states. however, it is not the eu's task to guarantee human rights globally, that is the task of the un. there are positive elements in the resolution which we support, including a call for increased environmental work and support for the international criminal court. the resolution is, however, broadly concerned with strengthening the eu's foreign policy role. that is why we are voting on the resolution as a whole.
in writing. the eu is a union of values and therefore has a responsibility to uphold respect for human rights within its borders. the eu therefore has a role, through its member states, in drawing attention to the vulnerable situation of the roma and in facilitating their integration into society.
in writing. the hughes report is about the reform of the european agency for safety and health at work. the harkin report concerns the reform of the european fund for the improvement of living and working conditions. the cabrnoch report is about modernising social security systems and developing good quality health care. we believe that issues of working conditions, social security systems or health care are not the responsibility of the eu. these are matters which should be decided by each member state. the above bodies should not be run by the eu but as non-governmental organisations of stakeholders. that is why we also choose to abstain on the three reports.
in writing. the emission of environmentally hazardous substances is an important policy issue. however, we do not believe that the eu should have a common strategy at the punta del este conference on persistent organic pollutants. the national negotiating line shall be determined by the member state concerned.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is extremely surprising to me that people in this room who are elected to hold the executive accountable, vote against the bill.
i wanted to say, in the light of what i said, that i did not get to vote in favour of the motion and i would like to have this recorded. but it was shameful.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the committee we often get half-baked proposals from the council. unfortunately, i sometimes get the feeling that the environment committee then sees it as its task to make half-baked proposals bad. now we have another example of this. the bathing water directive. the name of this directive says it all. the eu must therefore regulate the quality of the water on our beaches. i have to say, i think it's stunning. the question is whether there is any issue which is so small that it should be left to the member states to decide. but in the council's defence, this is not a new stupidity, because the current directive is far worse than the compromise reached by the council. under the current directive, a small country like sweden would have to regularly measure the quality of water in up to 5 000 bathing sites. the fact that sweden does not measure the water quality of more than 800 bathing sites is not a sign that we are some kind of european wild west. it is an example of how common sense, fortunately, has been given priority over unreasonable legislation. and in the council's defence, i will say that at least they have now tried to get rid of some of the worst of the craziness. but as i said, the environment committee's proposal which we are going to vote on is unfortunately an example of the committee's wish to make half of the legislation bad. one example in abundance is that the committee now demands that information on the quality of bathing water, for example in härjarö outside enköping, where i spent many sunny summer days, must now also be disseminated in french. unfortunately, in many places there is now a desire to add to the burden. for example, some people want recreational water to be included in the water quality report and regularly monitored. this includes water quality wherever people windsurf, paddle, kayak or the like, and - whoops - the water in principle throughout the swedish archipelago is at risk of needing to be regularly checked. if the european parliament is going to force all swedish municipalities to measure the quality of water everywhere, and a little more, then i am really quite inclined to vote against the whole proposal, but unfortunately we risk losing the simplifications proposed by the council. the problem is not really all the details i have mentioned, but the fact that the eu regulates matters in an area where europe is so different. the eu should not regulate the measurement of bathing water quality in lakes in northern värmland. too many members of this house seem to take pride in the new regulations they can come home and show their constituencies that they have put in place. i feel at least as proud of the follies i have been a part of and stopped, and i hope that more members of this house after tomorrow's... (the president cut off the speaker)
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. in orwell's animal farm, there's a scene that repeats itself, namely that the sheep as soon as you're about to have a debate start shouting: "four legs good, two legs bad". that is what we are now dealing with - whenever anyone objects to our transferring power from the member states to the eu institutions, we are told that this is tantamount to representing a repetition of the second world war, the holocaust and all that. we cannot even discuss the validity or otherwise of the working time directive without receiving accusations of this kind. the principle of subsidiarity is fundamental, it is celebrated in every conceivable ceremonial context. when we get into the details, it is the opposite, nothing can really be left in the member states. the working time directive is itself a breach of the principle of subsidiarity. the countries are different, they have different economic structures, some live on industry, others have process industries, we have different arrangements in the public sector and rules for this. there is no reason for this, and it is extremely inappropriate to try to regulate working hours for the whole of the eu in this way. those who now advocate this say that we will otherwise be socially dumped. this is a very serious accusation against the countries we have accepted as members of the european union, all of which meet the copenhagen criteria, all of which are states of law with the right to free association. the fact that we could be subjected to any form of slave labor there is a grotesque accusation that must be categorically rejected. here parliament has now tried to make the existing working time directive even worse. we shall say no to that, it is an attempt to further advance the positions of the eu institutions. the proposal should therefore be categorically rejected on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a very good job. i shall dwell on one thing in this short time, namely, the exception. it has been said by mr de wit that this is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity, but that is not the case. denmark, sweden and france, for example, are free to have higher standards than this minimum directive. this is a minimum directive. so, what, we can do without the minimum directive? no, we can't. we have to. because it also indirectly affects standards in those countries which have much, much higher standards. if we have a situation where countries start competing with each other for long working hours, then that will affect the situation in denmark, sweden and france. it is therefore linked to the principle of subsidiarity, since we have free movement of capital. that's one thing. the second concerns our responsibility as legislators. does that border go along the national border? should we only think about the free movement of companies or should we also take responsibility for the health of employees? i believe that we must also take responsibility for the health of our employees and that is why we need a minimum directive. thirdly, we often talk about reconciling family and work life, but what if we allow long working hours? it means that men will work and not take responsibility for the family and then we will not have an equal society. that is why we need this proposal from the rapporteur.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is good that we now have the opportunity to revise the working time directive. my main focus in this work is to make it easier for member states to create new jobs. it is therefore important to provide flexible solutions and to reduce the level of eu-level regulation and centralisation. working time issues should be primarily the responsibility of the member states and therefore there should be a wide margin for divergent solutions between them. the industry also operates differently and, as individuals, we have different needs and desires for our working hours. working time is an area for national practice and not for eu decision. unfortunately, there are strong forces in this parliament which want to go in the opposite direction. they want to limit the ability of the member states to adapt to their own traditions and needs. only one model will apply to the whole of europe, which means that they want to introduce supranationality in matters of working time. they do not want to allow member states to differ and that all europeans do not have identical preferences for the way in which their working time should be allocated. unlike those people, i believe that the most important thing in europe today is to create good conditions for the creation of new jobs. unlike them, i believe that people themselves, rather than politicians, know better what is best for them. as with so many other issues, it is not true that one solution is best for all. we are different and that is precisely the charm and strength of the eu. we are made up of different states with different cultures and traditions. i want to give europe the opportunity to preserve its own particularities and to give the member states the power to decide on working time. it is not a matter for detailed regulation at eu level.
in writing. we support in principle the accession of croatia, serbia and montenegro, bosnia and herzegovina, macedonia and albania to the eu. when countries fully meet the copenhagen criteria, they should become members. this is a natural consequence of the enlargement process which started in may 2004. the eu's framework agreements, which aim to prepare countries for membership, must focus on improving public administration, strengthening the judiciary and fighting corruption. the countries must not become accustomed to the costly and harmful agricultural policies of the eu. the enlargement of the eu must not be used as an excuse for not reforming and eventually abolishing the common agricultural policy. an enlarged eu of up to 35 countries requires a major reform of agricultural policy.
in writing. if croatia, serbia and montenegro, bosnia and herzegovina, macedonia and albania meet all the criteria for eu membership at some point in the future, they should be welcomed as members. however, the european parliament should not take a position on a framework agreement until there is a clear basis for demonstrating the financial commitments that a framework agreement provides for the other member states. a document should also show the types of support and rights that a framework agreement will entail. experience from previous framework agreements shows that a 'yes' vote creates political pressure to support all possible forms of aid and subsidies in the future. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all aid schemes, including those for the production of agricultural products. the eu and potential member states alike benefit in the long term from adapting to a system that creates dependency on subsidies. i have therefore voted against the report and hope that the commission will come back with an economic calculation and a document clearly defining the aid that will be made available when a framework agreement is signed.
in writing. we have voted in favour of this report's proposal to accede to this international convention. in general, we are sceptical about the eu as such joining international conventions, but since intergovernmental organisations can join this convention and we also believe that this improves the internal market in this area, we are voting in favour of the report.
in writing. the eu's task is to solve crossborder problems. one of these is the spread of infectious animal diseases. that is why we are voting in favour of the report. however, the fight against the spread of infectious animal diseases within the eu framework is no excuse for continuing to pursue a costly and harmful common agricultural policy (cap). we believe that the financial responsibility for the gjp should be nationalized.
in writing. provisions on the rules to be applied to bathing water quality at bathing sites in europe are not a matter for the eu to deal with. this issue is to be dealt with by the member states. the parliament's proposal does not take account of the principle of subsidiarity or the principle of proportionality. in addition to our principled position that bathing water quality management is not a matter for the eu, we consider that the parliament's proposal is more bureaucratic and cumbersome than the council's. we have therefore voted against this recommendation. the situation regarding bathing water varies greatly within the eu and it is therefore not desirable to adopt a directive which would apply to the mediterranean countries as well as to the northern countries of the union, such as sweden. we therefore oppose several formulations, including the establishment of contingency plans for events that may affect the quality of bathing water, such as floods, accidents or infrastructure problems. we are opposed to the detailed regulations which parliament wants to introduce, such as extending the scope of the directive to include additional leisure activities.
in writing. preserving cultural heritage is of course very important. but we believe that this is not a european issue, that it should be dealt with by the member states and that we can have a good deal of confidence in the way they deal with this issue. we have therefore voted against this report, as we believe that this recommendation should not have been dealt with in the european parliament at all.
in writing. i have voted against this report because i believe that the eu should not regulate these cultural issues. the report is way too claw-fingered. it's up to each country to handle how films are regulated.
in writing. we note that it is obvious that there must be high security requirements for europe's ports. but we wonder whether there is a risk that a member state such as the netherlands would really fail to take care of the security of its port of rotterdam, which is so crucial to its business activities? the way this directive has been drafted, there is a risk that it could be a severe blow to the activities of smaller ports, as they have to implement a disproportionate number of costly measures to continue their activities. as such ports are often located in economically weaker regions, this has unfortunate regional consequences. we want to see a new review and reworking of the directive from the perspective of the smaller ports.
in writing. the resolution on the murder of robert mccartney points to the ira as responsible for the murder, even though the issue has not yet been settled in court. it is unreasonable for the european parliament to judge a sensitive issue which could affect the peace process in northern ireland. that is why we choose to abstain on the resolution.
the ppe group is in favour of the report. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am grateful for the contributions, especially those of mr schmit and mr dimas. it is very positive in itself that you are exuding a certain optimism on this difficult issue, both on the problem in general and specifically on how you read bush, i wish i could be as optimistic. george w. bush gave an energy and climate speech just this day and unfortunately that speech didn't show any real movement in the right direction. but i agree with you that dialogue with the united states is extremely important, because without their active participation, climate action can never be truly effective. of course, just as important is a dialogue, and a strategic one, with large developing countries such as china and india. i saw the other day that china is planning to build 800 large coal plants in the next 10 years. the emissions from these will completely overshadow what we do in europe. the conclusion, of course, is that the developing countries do not have to go down exactly the same path in energy development as we have. they do not have to make the same mistakes as us and it is in everyone's interest to offer them favourable terms so that they can invest in the best possible technology. i am sorry to say that the clean development mechanism is not enough, but we must come up with something much more radical and ambitious. the situation is serious, as recent research reports indicate that the climate system may be far more fragile than we previously thought. it will be much more difficult to stay within the two degrees of temperature rise set by the eu and to avoid dangerous changes in the climate, what the british call dangerous climate change. that is why the bonn meeting is so important, because you can lay the foundations for the period after 2012. we point out in our resolution the need for short-term and long-term emission targets. we also believe that such objectives must be followed by much more ambitious programmes in terms of both the development of new sources of energy and increased investment in energy efficiency. there are a number of issues to which we must return and work together to develop concrete objectives. i wish the commission and the council well in bonn and hope that you will come back with positive reports so that we can do this work in a constructive way for the future and take our responsibility, as florenz pointed out, for future generations.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the last hundred years, the world has experienced a temperature increase of about 0.6 degrees. the un's intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) has found that these global climate changes are having the greatest impact on the world's poor. i would like to stress this because in this house we too often see global problems from a one-sided european perspective. the reasons why poor people are the main victims of global climate change are many. this is partly because these countries' economies are often dominated by climate-sensitive sectors, especially agriculture. in addition, they have little resources to adapt and protect themselves against various changes, such as rising sea levels or reduced rainfall. resources are also too scarce for preventive healthcare, making it difficult to stop the risk of outbreaks of climate-related diseases, such as malaria. the rich countries of the world need to coordinate their joint efforts on climate change and work on preventive measures. my party believes that the eu should work on cross-border environmental issues. climate change is one of them, and i therefore support constructive and well-thought-out proposals from the union in this area, and in doing so i would point out that the un convention on climate change has been ratified by 189 parties. we cannot therefore work unilaterally through european institutions, but must also coordinate our actions within the framework of other international organisations and be responsive to the competent bodies of the un and the world energy council (wec).
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you to mr schmit and mr dimas for their very encouraging comments. i really hope that your analysis is correct, that it is going in the right direction. i would also like to thank mr anders wijkman for his work on the resolution which we are going to vote on later. i share the view of many others in this chamber that the conference of government experts is very welcome, although i would also like to stress that it cannot replace meetings at a higher political level. sometimes it seems that we have a lot of knowledge but we lack the political will to do more to tackle climate change. i hope that this meeting can help to draw attention to positive examples of how to reduce the impact of climate change, not least in terms of community planning, because sometimes it seems that climate issues are only considered as an environmental issue on the side, for those who are most interested. but it's very important that we integrate this approach into all of our social construction, into all of our social planning, because that's the only way we can achieve results. i also hope that the meeting will discuss how to integrate measures aimed at reducing climate impact and achieving sustainable development into the wto trading system as well as into other international agreements. this is what is needed to get more countries to take the necessary action, but this type of regulation could also help to reduce the transport that is so much of a climate threat today. for example, fish is now being taken up in the baltic and the north sea, transported by air to asia, repackaged into ready-made food which is then transported back and sold in the same place where the fish was taken up. finally, good luck at the meeting and do your best to communicate that the eu is actually doing something in this area. we need to, we need to show our voters and our citizens that we are actually doing something about the biggest challenge we face, which is climate change.
mr president, i would like to thank you. several recent scientific studies show that climate change is likely to be even faster than we thought and that greater reductions in the amount of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere are also needed to prevent these changes. this means that the demands on us are increasing and that the measures we face to reduce emissions by 60-80 per cent by 2050, which is the realistic thing, will require a completely different energy and transport policy than we have today. so we're really just getting started. at the same time, we often say here that we are better than the united states, and we are, but it's not particularly difficult in the current situation. we saw in buenos aires that the united states today is not only refusing to take responsibility for itself but is also actively trying to prevent global cooperation on the world's climate. it is therefore all the more important that the eu has the courage to pursue a consistent policy with far-reaching objectives. i also believe that the ultimate loser in this is the united states itself, both ecologically and economically, because with the kind of 'dinosaur system' we have for energy and transport, we will be forced to make even faster and more comprehensive transitions in the future.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank you. the commission's main communication challenge is to reach 450 million eu citizens with limited resources. according to the latest eurobarometer full report, tv is by far the most popular source of information for citizens in all 25 member states on eu issues. radio is closely followed in third place with a higher percentage in the new member states, and audiovisual media are the most effective channels for disseminating information about the european union. as part of its objective of informing citizens about the eu, its realities and policies, its decisions and actions, the commission has published every year since 2003 a call for proposals for the co-financing of high-quality and accessible audiovisual projects in an appealing popular form, which at the same time aim to promote the ideas and values of the eu. the total budget for 2004 was eur 6.7 million. of the project proposals submitted by broadcasters or broadcasting companies, 79 projects were selected. for 2005, the call for proposals is limited to radio and the budget for that activity is eur 3,9 million. the commission then draws up agreements regulating the forms of this cooperation between broadcasters or producers and the commission. in designing their projects, applicants are free to choose the type of programmes they prefer to produce and broadcast. the format can be drama series, competitions, films, news reports but also debate programmes and so on. so far, no candidates have chosen to develop projects for dramas, competitions or films. this finding is consistent with the results of the commission's latest quality studies and opinion polls carried out in the eu's 25 member states. the aim was to identify the wishes and expectations of europeans in terms of both form and content. in fact, television viewers do not consider films, drama series or competitions to be the most appropriate form of communication of information about the eu, but prefer topical newsreels, reportage, documentaries and, above all, factual and educational news elements in more general news programmes. they may also be interested in historical documentaries, cultural programmes and films, but to a much lesser extent. the applicants are always free to choose the type of programme they wish to produce, provided that it contributes to conveying the european message to the citizens.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i want to thank you for this very informative answer. i have just one more small question, and that is whether the commission can guarantee that the information is neutral. you say it's up to the people who make the programs to decide what's in it. is there no requirement for neutrality and objectivity?
vice-president of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank you. we assume that the partners we work with follow the laws of their respective member countries on neutrality, or rather objectivity. we cannot impose any additional requirements, but we will make an offer and invite tenders to produce programmes, but they must follow the national laws relating to editorial freedom and, of course, objectivity.
vice-president of the commission. it is very difficult to comment on a specific case when i do not know the detailed circumstances, but i do not think we should be afraid of an open debate with those who disagree with us and we should welcome a lively debate on different issues. if we work with civil society, with ngos, we will always also have them criticising us, but that is part of the democratic procedure. i am used to working, for example, with environmental ngos and we give a lot of support to ngos. i was constantly criticised by them, but this is actually their role. they should also keep up the pressure on us and they should keep an eye on what we are doing, and we have to accept that there is a debate. i do not know your specific case and why this is a problem at all. but if we give money or ask for calls for proposals, then we have to be very specific about what it is that we expect in return; and probably in this case there was something wrong in that respect.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it seems that commissioner wallström and several of those taking part in this debate are of the opinion that the press in the european union and perhaps also the broadcasting media should have a strong anti-constitutional side. i have to ask if that is commissioner wallström's view, because my firm opinion is exactly the opposite. that there is a huge preponderance throughout europe for the yes side which dominates the press and the strange thing is that this is then presented as the opposite.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the un is the international organisation best placed to bring about a lasting solution to the conflict in darfur. it is important that eu action is carried out within the framework of un cooperation and that eu actions are carried out in cooperation with institutions with a long experience and legitimacy, such as the who or the un world food programme (wfp). i welcome the un's efforts in the sudan conflict, such as the recent creation of the 10,000 strong un mission umis. i also welcome the proposal to increase the presence of the african union in darfur. it has always been important to my party that the un be the first to act in this conflict. the un should act in cooperation with the african union, and any eu action should be focused on humanitarian aid after consultation with the un. the un plans to contribute a total of us$1.5 billion in aid during 2005. this is the single largest un appeal this year, it is important that eu assistance efforts are coordinated and conducted in consultation with the un so that the overall global response in sudan achieves maximum effectiveness.
the ppe group is in favour of the report. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteurs schmit and almunia for their contributions. there is much to be said about the world bank, its governance and, not least, the way its leadership is appointed. the recent selection of wolfowitz shows that competence for the specific task played less of a role than political merit. it shows that the appearance of high-level executives in the international system still leaves much to be desired. but i have a short time and i shall focus specifically on the relations between the eu and the bank. both schmit and almunia point to the weakness today, namely that we are not acting unitedly and with one voice. on the part of parliament, we recently had a meeting with the european directors of the world bank and they were completely unanimous in demanding and calling for a more united approach on the part of the union on development issues, both in general and specifically as regards the work of the bank. we also had a meeting with jeffrey sachs a few months ago in the committee on development and he asked why - given the enormous flow of aid money compared to the rest of the world - 'why does the eu not act more unitedly, you would get more out of your work, better results and you would also have more influence in all this important context'. both schmit and almunia have stressed in their speeches that we are short of funds today. how can we achieve a more united and unified foreign policy if we continue to behave so fragmentedly in these international institutions? it is also typical that in the discussions now taking place on the future composition of the security council we are not discussing at all whether the eu as a union should have a seat on the security council, but that it is still the member states at national level that are involved. mr president, i can only stress from my point of view that we must have a change in this plan. we must create greater unity in cooperation and we must harmonize our actions in a completely different way in order to really get the result we want from the union's action and to be able to take on greater responsibility on the global stage.
in writing. we oppose the present common agricultural policy and we oppose changes of little consequence in principle to the existing system. we are calling for a comprehensive review and re-examination of the whole of the cap, and it is difficult to single out individual areas such as the matter now before the vote. we believe that the quota system for potato starch, which is now up for vote, should not be extended at all, but that the eu must abolish all types of quota systems in agriculture.
in writing. we support structures and rules that prevent discrimination in the labour market for citizens of other countries. we are strong supporters of a dynamic and open internal market in the eu. we believe, however, that it is for each member state to assess which professional qualifications are to be mutually recognised. unfortunately, the directive does not take sufficient account of national conditions and needs. the training systems vary between member states, making it difficult to mutually recognise virtually all professional qualifications. we support the amendment which proposes that the directive should not apply to notaries.
in writing. the report aims to simplify the eu's organisation of the fruit and vegetable market. but it preserves the existing structures of the cap. we cannot therefore support the report.
in writing. we believe that the eu should not decide on the working hours of the member states. this is a matter for the parliaments and the social partners of each member state to decide. we have chosen to support the amendments which allow for greater national self-determination, but we are voting against the resolution as a whole.
in writing. working time is something that is appropriate for national legislation and should not be regulated by the eu. however, there is already a directive at eu level regulating working time and this directive aims to update the existing directive. the european parliament has therefore voted to make the individual rules in the working time directive as good as possible. we have safeguarded the principle of subsidiarity and a flexible labour market while protecting the health of workers. unfortunately, a lot of fine-tuning was voted through which we think could hurt small businesses in europe. we therefore voted against the whole proposal.
in writing. the question of the regulation of working time is a complex one. my main point in relation to this directive is that this type of issue belongs primarily at the level of the member states. therefore, when the opt-out proposal was voted down - a rule which is not applied in sweden - and the proposal to calculate average working time over a period of more than four months was rejected, i thought it appropriate to vote against the whole proposal.
the replacement of the questioner. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the council for its reply to mr seppänen's question. i have two follow-up questions. the first concerns whether the council considers that the final disposal of radioactive waste is a matter of common interest in that the eu should seek common solutions for different member states and how and where to dispose of its waste. my second question concerns the euratom treaty. one of the points of discussion in the negotiations on the new constitution was whether the euratom treaty should be allowed to survive, as it does in the constitution. the council considers that it would have been more difficult to pursue a supranational policy in this area if the euratom treaty had not been the legal basis.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to say that i agree with martin that there are many privileges which we members of parliament could be without. as regards the travel allowance, i would like to have the council's opinion on this anyway. i can mention that we swedish social democrats are paying back everything except the actual travel costs, and for me it was 6 300 euros in just six months. for that money, we could do much more in the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. now the logic of global free trade has hit us too. it is hypocritical to demand protection against textile imports while ignoring the conditions of the oil and precious metals industries, where we do not have the same threat to european companies. what we should do is introduce a general fair tariff, where producers who do not comply with ilo and environmental requirements are made to pay. these tariffs should then be returned to the developing world to improve their environmental and social situation. i think it is strange that we should be investing in protecting the intellectual property rights of big companies in china, when it is mainly human rights that need protection in china and that is where we should be investing our efforts. but the transition from free to fair trade now requires a reform of the whole economic policy, so that trade becomes a tool for man and not the other way around. the un environment programme (unepo) and the un development programme (undp) should have power over the wto and not the other way around.
mr president, i would like to thank you. information is an objective way of communicating what is happening, and it is good for democracy. pr and propaganda, that's when you want to sell something that's not in demand. the commission has managed to maintain a fairly good balance between these, but unfortunately the report is moving in the direction of more propaganda. of course, we always want to be seen in a positive light, but the eu institutions must be equated with public authorities, who must describe rules, laws and their work objectively and accurately. that is why i am against paragraph 5, which says that universities should spread the values of the eu instead of critical thinking, analysis and knowledge. i am opposed to paragraph 9 which deals with pure brand placement, something we normally try to limit. the demand for a television channel of its own is not realistic - it is better to have reasonable conditions for public service television and tougher rules against media concentration.
in writing. we believe that the national parliaments should decide on their own position at the almaty conference on the aarhus convention. member states are free to decide on the attitude to participation in the decision-making process on gmos and the establishment of a financing system to ensure predictable financing (paragraph 4). the countries which have not ratified the aarhus convention will of course have to decide independently whether they wish to do so or not. in our view, the european parliament should not be making any gestures in this respect.
in writing. global climate change is a problem which we believe there are good reasons to address at international level. the eu is one of several international organisations with an important role to play in this context. we question, however, why the european parliament should call on the member states and the incoming presidencies to act in a certain way on climate issues. the resolution contains political views on energy issues, the kyoto protocol and guidelines on how third countries such as china, india and the united states should act. we shall vote against this resolution. the reason for this position is that we believe that national parliaments should determine their respective commitments and positions in international organisations and in political matters on their own. the report contains calls from the european parliament to member states and third countries on how to act on the urgent climate issue. we oppose this, despite the many good intentions in the proposed resolution.
in writing. we have chosen to abstain on this matter. many of the phrases are highly commendable. we are, however, opposed to the eu's desire to play a foreign policy role by making statements about humanitarian disasters in the world. we do not believe that the eu should take a position for its member states in international affairs and we believe that national parliaments should formulate their respective approaches to international affairs. we support the swedish government's position on the sudan question.
in writing. while it is important to improve the situation of democracy and human rights in central asia, we believe that this is not the task of the eu, as this region is not part of the eu's immediate vicinity. these tasks are better handled by a pan-european security organisation such as the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce). we welcome the statement's calls for strengthening the role of the osce, but cannot support the statement's basic aim of strengthening the eu's foreign and security policy. that is why we are voting to abstain.
in writing. we are turning to phrases that are tucked into the text to be comments on the way the eu works and the future. there is a belief that the construction of a federal eu will bring peace while reducing the role of nato in europe and the world. there is also much more to add to a resolution dealing with the end of the second world war. canada's important role in the final victory must not be forgotten. the american presence in europe in the post-war period must not be forgotten when it comes to preserving peace. we particularly object to the wording of paragraphs 1, 7 and 8 of the motion for a resolution. however, in order to honour the victims of the war, we have voted in favour of the resolution as a whole.
in writing. the rapporteur speaks in glowing terms about upgrading existing services, creating new services, technical adjustments, expectations of 'fine-tuning' and additional resources for information offices, mainly in romania and bulgaria. the text put to the vote is unclear but can only be interpreted as a request for additional appropriations. we are opposed to increased spending, particularly in the case of proposals which involve increased administrative costs and additional money for a budget line which is often used for pure propaganda. we have therefore voted against the resolution as a whole.
in writing. we support the general objective of the report, which is to liberalize international trade without compromising basic social and environmental requirements. we also support the demands to end export subsidies under the eu's common agricultural policy (cap) and to give less developed countries quota- and duty-free access to the eu market. these requirements are not consistent with the report's statement that the 'european agricultural model' should not be called into question (paragraph 16). the liberalisation of trade policy must go hand in hand with a fundamental reform of the cap.
in writing. we swedish social democrats have voted in favour of the report on the evaluation of the doha round following the wto agreement. the general approach of this report is good, as parliament supports free and fair multilateral trading systems in the context of sustainable development. we cannot, however, support paragraphs 16 and 17. the planned reform of the agricultural policy is absolutely necessary, as it is a first step towards a fair world trade. we oppose any attempt to make it more difficult for third world countries to sell their products within the eu. the accession of developing countries to the eu market must be given priority over the maintenance of agricultural subsidies.
in writing. what is 'true' and what is 'false' information about the eu? what is the information on the 'european tank'? of course, information about political institutions is shaped by political values. facts can be distorted and only a selection of facts can be presented to influence citizens. by an information strategy we mean that the political debate should allow room for all opinions, from those who advocate increased supranational governance in the eu to those who advocate strict intergovernmental cooperation. an institution like the commission should not argue for the draft constitutional treaty or for the development of greater supranationality in the eu. as regards, for example, paragraph 9 of the report, it is absolutely ridiculous when it proposes that the eu institutions should enter into agreements with television companies that can produce drama series, competitions, films and more to promote the ideas and values of the eu. some of the information material produced by the eu institutions crosses the line of what can be considered factual information and some of the eu information that is aimed at children and young people should never have been published. in a democracy, the various actors must act in a free and open debate. there must be no actor who is pushing a political line from above with the help of taxpayers' money.
in writing. the moderate delegation voted today against the report on the european union's information and communication strategy. we believe that a political institution such as the european parliament should not be used to shape the opinion of certain ideas or to influence the media to act in a certain way in relation to the political debate taking place in the member states.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this resolution opens with a long list of the problems facing spain. unfortunately, this is not an isolated phenomenon, as we remember from the heat wave in france last year. in fact, nine of the ten warmest years in the last 500 years have occurred in the last ten years. and it is not enough to change agricultural policy to compensate farmers who are affected. we're going to have plans for how we deal with disasters, but the big plan that future generations are expecting us to have here today is to fight climate change, or else this will just be the first example of a long line of people, animals and nature suffering from climate change. climate research clearly shows that even the ambitious targets we have for a maximum temperature increase of two degrees will not be met by the targets we have set for emission reductions, on the contrary, much stronger policies are needed. we should not adjust policy after disasters, but we should adjust policy to prevent the cause of disasters. in this context, criticism must be directed at the former spanish government, which has for a long time opposed eu initiatives to introduce climate taxes and eu initiatives to change the energy system to protect the climate. if this fight against good climate work continues, spain will be hit more times. i therefore hope that the spanish government will now take the lead in combating climate change on our planet for the future of the spanish people and the rest of the world.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! since the enlargement of the european union a little over a year ago, our powerful neighbour to the east, russia, has become increasingly important to us. it has long been a strategic partner and together we have many challenges and tasks that require cooperation and common solutions: trade, environment, energy, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, to name just a few. we need good relations if we are to achieve stability, security and prosperity across the european continent. however, our partnership has not been without problems, and it is gratifying that at the summit on 10 may we were able to agree on cooperation in the four common spaces. some 400 concrete points of cooperation or particularly concrete ones are not included in this summary but they are far from solved yet. it is important and gratifying that we have come this far, but it also remains to be seen what lies beyond the rhetoric. the eu's foreign policy is based on the principle of the free movement of persons. what this means for future marriage plans remains to be seen. we are interdependent, but relations have been strained and cooperation is hampered by internal developments in russia, where under putin we have seen a decline in human rights and democracy. more and more power has been tied to the kremlin and putin personally. political parties have been marginalized, freedom of expression and the free media have been curtailed. corruption remains widespread and the abuses of the bloody conflict in chechnya seem to be unending. the murder of mr mashadov, the elected president of chechnya, will not facilitate a political solution. putin and the eu also have different views on developments in neighbouring countries. the situation in our common neighborhood has been gratifying in many ways. in ukraine and georgia, people have turned away from authoritarian regimes and have chosen democracy, openness and renewal. we must realize that we have everything to gain from democratic neighbours and russia and putin must accept that these countries do not belong to the russian sphere of interest. the people there want democracy and see the eu, not russia, as the model for the future. however, the problems of cooperation are not only russia's. relations have been complicated by the differing signals being sent by the eu and the individual member states. the common policy places a very strong emphasis on values such as democracy and human rights, but when individual heads of government meet putin, common values tend to fall very far down the agenda. instead, it will focus on, for example, energy. this does not give a good image of the eu and creates confusion on the russian side. the report we are discussing is critical of some aspects of russia's domestic policy development and says that the eu must be clear. the conflict in chechnya can only be resolved politically. the eu must offer itself as a mediator and eventually also participate in the reconstruction process. there are terrible atrocities against civilians in chechnya. it's a matter of concern to all of us. it's not an internal conflict. no one denies the terrible acts committed in russia - i am thinking here of the beslan massacre - but that does not legitimise the abuses in chechnya and the unwillingness to bring the military responsible to justice. russia, by its size and geographical position, and as our neighbour, is a very important partner. there is no alternative to active cooperation but we need to focus on a number of concrete areas of cooperation where the eu and russia have a mutual benefit from results. quality, not quantity, should be the guiding principle in this work and democratic issues must be constantly integrated. the eu must convince russia that economic development and trade go hand in hand with modernisation, a functioning justice system and democratic reforms. we support russia's ambitions to join the wto and the reforms that will entail. we look forward to deepening cooperation in the environmental field, such as maritime and nuclear safety, and to continuing the commitments under the kyoto protocol. we hope that together we will find a solution to the conflict in transnistria, that russian troops will be withdrawn from moldova and georgia. we must, of course, look mainly to the future, but we have a common history, sometimes dramatic and bloody. to move forward, you have to be able to put the past behind you, but that requires a process of reconciliation. the archives of europe and russia from the second world war must be opened and russia must recognize the occupation of the baltic states and the atrocities committed by the soviet union. it is excellent that the border agreement with estonia has been signed, now latvia also remains. our ability to influence developments is limited. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we never back down from the values on which eu cooperation is based and make this clear to our great neighbour. the eu and russia can never achieve a true partnership unless it is based on the defence of democracy. the russian people are not helped by our silence on important matters of principle. a coherent strategy with a common message instead of a one-man show by individual leaders is the only way to conduct a credible policy towards russia. (applause) i would like to thank you.
on behalf of the alde group .– mr president, let me thank mrs gál for a very good report and very good cooperation on all the amendments. i am very pleased we are voting on this tomorrow. our union is entering a new phase. we are in the process of creating a legal obligation for the union to ensure that fundamental rights are actively promoted across all policy areas. the proposed fundamental rights agency would be the practical tool in this work. its main mandate covers what happens inside the union. at the same time we know that just outside the union’s borders there are literally slave markets, where young women and girls are sold to be trafficked into the sex industry in different parts of our union. for instance, it is estimated that every day about 40 girls are sold from these kinds of slave markets in moldova. this is the worst case of human rights violation occurring in our part of the world and the fundamental rights agency should be able to confront it. therefore i hope that this house will confirm the vote of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs to the effect that the agency should also be able to cover third countries when they are involved in human rights issues affecting the union. i also hope that this house will state clearly that the future gender institute at the very least should work closely with and be situated in the same location as the fundamental rights agency. this is rational and cost-effective, but more importantly it should be the obvious line of thinking for anyone who believes that women’s rights are human rights.
mr president, members and commissioner mccreevy, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the fact that we now have a report and that the european parliament too is taking a comprehensive approach to money laundering and terrorist financing. in the committee on civil and human rights, on which i sit, we have agreed that it is not enough to deal with terrorism as a crime, but we must also look at how terrorism spreads globally and where the money comes from. for me, as a former member of the swedish parliament, it has long been clear that everything from the income from sex slavery to prostitution, drug trafficking, gambling and gambling to the transfer of funds between banks and countries not only finances terrorism but also a lot of criminal activity in our countries. of course, we members of parliament must be subject to the same checks as all other citizens. i hope that the directive will lead to a broad debate on so-called black money in our home countries. money laundering is not only funding terrorism, it is also corrupting our societies and is therefore a threat to democracy. that is why today's debate and directive are so important for the future and for the european parliament and the eu.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and also thank him for this report. it was a good sign that the committee voted unanimously in favour of the report. the main reason is that the proposal gives us the continuity that is necessary to promote equality. and continuity is necessary if the measures are to have the intended impact and long-term effect. this is of course of great importance, because there is still so much to be done in the field of gender equality. some claim that at the rate at which gender equality is being promoted today, it will be hundreds of years before we can experience living in an equal society. in addition to the continuity, which is also emphasised in the report, the integration of the gender perspective in all policy areas is necessary. i would also like to make a strong appeal to the commission to ensure that the organisations and projects receiving support are carefully evaluated and monitored in order to maximise their impact.
the rapporteur. madam president and commissioner! i would like to thank all my colleagues on these cases and especially the case for which i am responsible, the front-row case. these two reports are important because they are about making the vehicles in europe better. we can really do something here at european level, because vehicles are sold all over europe and not just nationally. that is why we need european action. as for the front arches, which i was responsible for, they are dangerous today, especially in big cities, if you hit a child, a pedestrian, a cyclist. that's why this case has come up. why do we need legislation? there is an agreement between japanese, european and korean car manufacturers not to install hard front bows. but that deal is not enough. firstly, it does not apply to aftermarket front arches, the kind that are added to the car afterwards. nor does it define what hard frontal arches are. that's why we need tests. the directive procedure thus creates legal certainty for both the car trade and the manufacturers of accessories. everyone will know what is involved when we get this directive. why not ban frontal arches altogether? such discussions are held in some countries. they can be good in the wild -- we don't have that much wildland now, but they can be good there, and they come for those conditions, too -- but they're not good in cities. we do not want to ban them altogether, because they can actually make car fronts softer and thus safer. i am also convinced that we would not have the support of the citizens of europe to ban all frontal arcs altogether at european level. trl, the transport research laboratory, in the united kingdom, has published a report which actually shows that there are so-called smart bars, i.e. game traps or front arches that are flexible and also protect pedestrians in collisions with cars equipped with this type of front arches. in committee we have looked at the commission's proposal, of course, and had a committee discussion and eventually an informal trialogue to reach agreement. we have heard the commissioner comment on this and say that he is satisfied with the informal tripartite discussion. we have said something during the debate which has been controversial but which we have eventually agreed and compromised, namely that we think the four tests which the commission proposed to start with were too far-reaching. this is because we know that there is a rapid technological development that allows us to perhaps find new forms of frontal arcs and frontal protection in the future, and new tests. the tests we propose will therefore initially be somewhat more lenient than the commission's original proposal. but here we are in full agreement with the commission now. and then, after a few years, the commission will review the technical regulations and other tests that may be used. the directive applies to future new front-end bows. both the ones on the car and the ones put in afterwards. they shall be approved in a type-approval procedure. in essence, it means that from a certain date only frontal protection systems which meet the new requirements are type-approved and can be placed on the market. front-end bows placed on the market before that date are the responsibility of the member states. it is precisely on this last issue of old front-end arcs on the market that we have jointly proposed a new article in the legislation, which would allow member states to decide what they want to do with old front-end arcs on the market. we have now reached an agreement on this, and i am very happy about that. this is an important road safety measure and i thank everyone for the work and for the agreement we have reached. finally, the safety belts in buses and other vehicles than cars. the koch and costa reports are also very important to me. i agree with what the commissioner and renate sommer have said. i would like to point out that it is important for everyone that we use seat belts in buses and that we get seat belts in buses. a seat belt on a bus is good for me if i use it, but it's also good if my neighbor uses it. if you have an accident on a bus and you're not wearing your seat belt and you get thrown around on the bus, you hurt other passengers too. we often do not think about this. it is therefore important that we now have this directive on the use of seat belts in buses and lorries. we'll have it in every vehicle and they'll be used.
madam president, i would like to thank you. many citizens are concerned about the increase in obesity and the ill health it causes in many citizens and especially in already vulnerable groups, those with very low incomes. this is a major social problem, but perhaps above all a major problem for the individuals affected. that is why many individuals are trying to shop healthier and choose healthier foods. unfortunately, this is being exploited in a very bad way. many companies try to make products like breakfast cereals, soft drinks, and other products appear more useful than they really are. as a representative of the citizens, i think that we in the european parliament must ensure that no consumer is duped into buying products that he does not really want. we must therefore require that the whole content of the product be taken into account when making health claims. otherwise, i cannot support this report. of course, it is especially important that no one be deceived into buying alcoholic beverages, with the problems we know they cause, in the belief that they are beneficial. therefore, health claims cannot be used for alcohol. this is not a matter of deciding what people should eat, but of giving people the right and opportunity to make informed choices for themselves. that is why i find it difficult to understand that the ppe group, for example, might think that companies should be allowed to mislead consumers. do you really think that companies can't make products that consumers want without having to trick them into buying them?
mr president, i would like to thank you. as regards the economic guidelines which we have discussed today in connection with the goebbels report, i would say that it is important that we never underestimate the growing competition we are seeing from the asian economies as well as the american ones. in ten years' time, we will have 800 million middle-income earners in these countries. it will change the economic relationship and place great demands on our ability to exploit it. sometimes we also overestimate our own ability to meet this transformation. i am struck by the fact that we forget how many people are actually unemployed in europe and in the various countries. even in those countries where we report high employment rates. in sweden, the problem is that 20-25% are unemployed or have no job to go to because we have so many early retirees and because of sick leave and actual unemployment. this is a social problem, but it is also an economic problem in terms of our ability to create welfare because, as was said here before, it is not growth that creates jobs. it's jobs and entrepreneurs that create growth. we have good hope in the simple fact that we are successful in the countries and sectors of the economy where we have implemented reforms. in the telecommunications markets, where we have liberalized, we are most successful in the countries with the most liberalized economies. in countries that have reformed their labour markets, we see better developments in employment and in countries with taxes that facilitate business, we see more business. the problem for europe is not that we have too high interest rates and too little demand stimulus. on the contrary, we have historically low interest rates and a very large stimulus burden due to interest rates and high public spending. what we need is reform. in the guidelines we have agreed in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, we stress the need for a more flexible labour market, better conditions for business and a focus on productivity and competitiveness through more open markets. we will therefore support this report and make sure that the proposals we put forward in it are supported.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs and in particular ana mato adrover for the good cooperation they have shown in the committee on social affairs and employment in rather difficult circumstances. let me say first of all that i think it is good that we have integrated guidelines, because employment policy and economic policy are integrated. we must also, as we have added in our proposals, ensure sustainable development, both economic, social and environmental. the situation in europe is not bright at the moment, growth is too low, unemployment is too high. i personally think that in terms of economic policy we should concentrate more on growth-enhancing measures throughout europe to get growth going. stabilisation policy is important - we have been more successful than expected - but we should now concentrate more on growth-enhancing measures. we face increased competition in the world. the question is how to meet it. will we face china and india with worse working conditions and lower wages? the answer is no. we will meet it with research and development, with better jobs, with investing in the workforce through skills development. we're going to see restructuring. we have seen restructuring and we will see it again. it is important how we implement the restructuring. the involvement of workers, not exclusion, participation and social responsibility of enterprises. if we don't, we're gonna see more demonstrations in the streets. it also provides better restructuring if the workers are involved in the process. we must create a labour market where we can reconcile work and parenting and then we cannot have too long working hours or rules at european level which allow for any length of working hours, because that disadvantages one sex. we must create conditions in the labour market so that both men and women can participate. finally, disadvantaged groups. we must make greater efforts with regard to people coming to europe as refugees, who are often excluded from the labour market, and with regard to the disabled and others, so that they too can participate to a much greater extent in the labour market.
rapporteur.– mr president, in order to make it conform to recent events, i wish to propose an oral amendment to the first part of amendment 7, which reads as follows: ‘reiterates its call for russia to ratify the recently concluded border agreement with estonia, and to sign and ratify the border agreement with latvia without further delay’. the rest is unchanged.
mr president, the oral amendment concerns a change in paragraph 14 concerning one word. instead of ‘should’, it should read ‘can’. i will read the text out for you: ‘points out that the member states and the union institutions enjoy a special right to bring actions before the court in the interests of the law and takes the view that parliament can, using that means, defend the rights of citizens in cases where fundamental rights might be affected by a union act;’.
mr president, we do not want amendment 6 to be an addition to paragraph 5, we want it to replace paragraph 5. we would like to vote for that. my group will be voting for amendment 6 to replace the text of paragraph 5. i hope i have clarified the situation. this will be for the prosperity of europe.
in writing. the junilista considers that a one-year extension of the five-year programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship is not desirable. the programme does not have the cross-border character required to consider that the principle of subsidiarity has been respected. it should be the responsibility of the member states to facilitate access to finance and risk capital for smes, if they so wish, and to provide information on eu legislation, european standards and partners. for small businesses across europe, it is important that companies can try out different solutions in accordance with the principle of institutional competition. in order to contain the costs of an extended programme, we are voting against the report.
in writing. the report regrets that the european parliament was not consulted or informed about the measures relating to the work and organisation of europol and calls on the council to take measures to increase democratic control by involving parliament. the junilist believes that increased democratic, judicial and budgetary control of europol is desirable, but since the europol convention is an intergovernmental cooperation, it is the national parliaments and not the european parliament that should exercise this control. that is why we have voted against the report.
in writing. we believe that the european union's fisheries policy must be reviewed. over-fishing drives people in developing countries deeper into poverty and robs the marine environment of a vital link in the food chain. we believe that if the union concludes a fisheries agreement with a third country, the total amount of the financial compensation to that country should be financed by the member states of the union whose fishing vessels are taking advantage of the agreement in question. the member states may then decide whether they will finance this expenditure by charging fees to their fishing vessels. this is the junilist's position in principle on eu fisheries agreements with third countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. however, these proposals are extremely limited.
in writing. we support the framework agreement in principle in order to ensure the practical functioning of the european parliament and to ensure that the commission's activities, including its expert groups, are monitored. we have chosen to support the report despite the misleading wording in recital a, which claims that the creation of a constitution for europe would deepen democracy in the eu.
in writing. this report deals with the community's strategy for promoting the urgent objective of achieving equality between men and women. we have voted against the report because we have confidence that the national parliaments of the member states will deal with this important matter in an appropriate manner. we are opposed in principle to the general trend of the eu institutions seeking to gain influence and competence in an increasing number of areas.
in writing. the single market requires cooperation and harmonisation of the laws of the member states. however, it is important to take account of the proportionality of legislation and the role and importance of national parliaments. we believe that the member states should be the first to decide on rules on nutrition and health claims for food. we are critical of several of the commission's articles, such as the right of the commission to draw up nutritional profiles to be followed in health claims in connection with advertising (article 4) and regulations on which implied health claims are not to be allowed (article 11). however, the european parliament has tabled a number of positive amendments, which is why we have chosen to support the report as a whole.
in writing. the resolution sets out guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. although several of the proposals are good, we do not think that the eu should intervene in this area. employment policy is best decided in each member state, in accordance with its specific circumstances.
in writing. we do not share the views of the european parliament's committee on constitutional affairs on the establishment of a european external action service. the creation of this section is a step towards a common foreign and security policy for the eu in which the member states have completely relinquished this policy area to the union. we believe that each member state of the european union should continue to pursue its own foreign policy, which is shaped by the election of representatives to the national parliament, or alternatively by the election of the president, or by national referendums.
in writing. the report deals with the extension of the mandate of the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia to become a human rights agency. without respecting the outcome of the referenda in the member states, parliament proposes guidelines for the role and tasks of the agency as if the constitution had already entered into force. moreover, there is no reason and it is an unnecessary duplication of work to create another eu body to deliver opinions, recommendations and raise awareness in the field of human rights, an area where the council of europe, the osce and various un bodies are already doing excellent work. that is why the junilista has voted against the report.
in writing. the goebbels owninitiative report is another flagrant example of how the european parliament is trying to turn national policy into a common eu policy. we see many fairly sound views being expressed on how growth should be stimulated, the importance of relevant investment, how environmental initiatives can contribute to economic growth and how unemployment creates social injustice. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competitive' in the definition of the term 'competitive' in the definition of the term 'competitive'. institutional competition between member states will show which system is the most successful. such established best practice will then be followed by other member states in their own self-evident interest.
in writing. we support the report on the social agenda for the period 2006-2010. as for the text on a legislative initiative on a 'guaranteed minimum income', we interpret it as referring to what we in sweden call social contributions and not the introduction of a minimum wage system.
mr president, i would like to thank you. on wednesday, the global campaign drugs for neglected diseases initiative is launched. aids, malaria, and tuberculosis are well-known problems. less well-known are chagas' disease, sleeping sickness, and leishmaniasis. together with aids, tuberculosis, and malaria, these diseases kill 14 million people each year, mostly in poor countries. the disease causes more deaths globally than road accidents, famine and terrorism combined. three billion dollars would be enough to research better treatments for these diseases. the solutions are within reach if solidarity and humanity are mobilized. tsunami was a word unknown to many six months ago, but when the devastating power of that word became widely known, we were able to quickly mobilize support for those affected. now attention is being given to other lesser-known concepts, such as chagas' disease and leishmaniasis, which afflict millions of people. let us show the way again, to learn new concepts and take new steps against this scourge.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. last week's referendums in france and the netherlands were a dramatic reminder of how low the legitimacy of the european union has fallen in the eyes of the european people. the union is rightly perceived as an increasingly elite project. a political elite without a real mandate from the people is overriding citizens and their national institutions in more and more areas of political life. in sweden, a scientific survey of public confidence in some 20 different institutions is carried out each year. the commission and this house, the european parliament, are at the bottom of that list. we are many politically committed people who want to save the european integration project from attempts to create a european superstate. we want to return it to a confidential cooperation between independent and equal countries and limit it to areas such as the internal market and cross-border environmental problems. the attempts to push the union towards a united states of europe without popular support are now threatening the survival of the integration project. however, it is not only the attempts of the political elite to push for a supranational eu against the will of the citizens that undermine the union's legitimacy. it is common for european people to associate the eu with top management, bureaucracy and corruption. and in this particular debate in the house, it is corruption and fraud that we are dealing with. i would like to commend mr bösch for his report. it is carefully crafted and contains good proposals which i wholeheartedly support. at the same time, our work in the committee on budgetary control shows how difficult it is to tackle fraud. there's some fundamental systemic flaw that we can't get to. the money disappears year after year through agricultural policy and regional policy. there is little evidence of any marked improvement. officials who expose scandals in the eu bureaucracy are routinely sacked, fired, retired early. the history of the eu is littered with the corpses of all these whistle-blowers. some scandals are revealed by other means, but in normal cases there is never a legal process. this cannot continue and it is now commissioner kallas's responsibility to ensure that this development does not continue into the future and undermine the little trust that the eu population still has in the union.
mr president, mr frattini and mr de vries, you have been very helpful. first of all, i congratulate the rapporteurs on their improvements to the council's anti-terrorism proposal, which is trying to make the fight against terrorism more effective in several excellent ways. however, the balance between rights and freedoms must be maintained and our democratic european system improved. today, a car has almost better rights than a human being, because the car can have economic legislation removed by the european parliament and the ec court of justice. these issues highlight the need for a new constitution to better combat crime and terrorism. the question of data storage is a prime example of the end of the road for the pillar system. we need a new treaty to protect privacy and against disproportionate measures and impositions. data protection is needed in all legislation and not, as now, only in some. angelika niebler has well developed the criticism of the european parliament in this area, and i agree with her. we have not seen any evidence of the need for the proposed measures on the data storage side. the council has acted provocatively and decided to implement legislation to which the european parliament opposes. such actions weaken our democracy. that's not what we need right now. we need the other way. we need to strengthen democracy and strengthen action by the council, and i hope that in future the council will listen to the european parliament to a much greater extent than it has done so far.
in writing. we advocate that eu countries cooperate on cross-border issues where eu cooperation brings added value to what can be achieved within existing international cooperation structures. we have chosen to vote in favour of the report on transeuropean energy networks as a whole because this is an important cross-border european issue. we support the amendments that allow for limited top-down management. we welcome the idea of using the existing eu structural funds to finance the costs of this type of cooperation.
in writing. increasing energy efficiency is an important part of the strategy to achieve the kyoto protocol objective. however, we do not believe that the eu should set detailed energy saving targets or how to achieve them. the eu can and should intervene in genuinely transnational environmental issues, but it should not dictate energy policy objectives. our rejection of the european parliament's report does not mean that we support the commission's original proposal.
in writing. we are open to the idea of eu countries creating a web-based portal where member states provide relevant environmental indicators. we are critical of the formulation which allows the eu to implement similar measures in other policy areas. the rapporteur has not clearly specified which areas are relevant and to what extent. we also believe that the report is too detailed and that the member states are asked to provide data in too many areas. the geographical conditions vary between member states. thus, the same types of data and indicators are not relevant for all countries. for the reasons stated above, we have voted against parliament's report. we believe that the commission's proposal is less far-reaching and better formulated than the one presented by the rapporteur parliament.
in writing. junilistan supports institutional competition and therefore regrets that the commission has considered it necessary to regulate this market as well. today, the legislation in which the reinsurance is taken out is the applicable law, which means that market participants themselves choose the most appropriate legislation. the directive is not primarily a protection for citizens but concerns regulations for financial institutions and business-to-business (b2b) trade. these operators carry out their own risk assessments on a daily basis and do not need additional eu legislation. we are therefore voting against the commission's proposal, since we cannot vote against it.
in writing. we are totally opposed to this report and consider it to be completely absurd in its parts. we cannot support the report's proposal to increase the appropriations in relation to the commission's proposal. we ask ourselves why the member states are not able to develop their rural areas themselves? or is the general will of the ejflu that you want others to pay the bill? the distribution of aid from rich countries to poor countries in the eu can be explained by the distribution of aid. but the use of this aid should be left to the latter countries. amendment no 29 refers to the treaty establishing a constitution for europe. this proposal has now been dropped and can no longer be referred to.
in writing. the moderate delegation voted in favour of this report today. we are, however, against the creation of a european criminal record, which we want to clarify.
in writing. the proposal on the storage of traffic data presented by sweden, ireland, france and the united kingdom aims to improve judicial cooperation in criminal matters. we fully support this objective, as it is important that the member states and the community provide the law enforcement authorities with adequate tools for their work. sweden has had great success in its law enforcement and the detection of serious crime by using preserved traffic data. the same applies to certain other member states. however, the four member states have not sufficiently explained the necessity and the reasonableness of the draft framework decision. it is therefore necessary that the four member states and/or the commission provide good examples of cases where the storage of traffic data has been of major importance for the prevention, investigation, detection and prosecution of criminal offences and offences, including terrorism, and clearly demonstrate the reasonableness and the need for legislation in this area in relation to the possible privacy implications that this would entail.
in writing. the junilists are in favour of increased cooperation between member states to combat terrorism and other serious crossborder crime. however, these are issues relating to intergovernmental police and judicial cooperation, the so-called third pillar issues. they are decided by the member states in the council and not by the supranational eu institutions. the evaluation of the results of the negotiations and the assertion of responsibility are thus the responsibility of the national parliaments - not the european parliament. the junilista can therefore not support parliament's amendments, although we would have supported the content of several of them if we were in the riksdag. as regards report a6-0162/2005, we support sweden's initiative in the council for a framework decision on simplified data and intelligence exchange between law enforcement authorities in the eu.
in writing. we support the majority of the aspects of the bosch report on fraud. the fact that different tax rates on tobacco in the eu member states lead to problems of cigarette smuggling is a known fact, as mentioned in paragraphs 33 and 36. we agree with these statements, but we are opposed to further reductions in tobacco taxes. lower tobacco prices increase consumption and have a negative impact on public health. we believe there are better ways to address the problem of smuggling. we cannot support the provision of mobile forces for customs authorities or the european external borders agency's involvement in customs espionage.
in writing. the moderate delegation voted today against the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office proposed by rosa díez gonzáles in the report on the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council and the european council on the eu action plan to combat terrorism. the moderate delegation believes that prosecutorial powers should be at national level.
in writing. prevention, preparedness and response to terrorist attacks are important and necessary measures. however, it is not reasonable for this work to lead to the eu having to define and implement a european political project. the victims of terrorism can be better supported than by the creation of additional eu authorities. we also oppose the use of terrorist acts and other tragic events to extend the power and influence of the eu institutions. that is why the junilista has voted against the report.
in writing. the moderate delegation voted today against the creation of a european criminal record. we have voted against the whole report for the same reason.
mr president, i would like to thank you. now we are again faced with proposals to increase eu expenditure and thus revenue. the argument is that the eu is growing and therefore must cost more. the eu is growing both in numbers and in the constant transfer of tasks from the member states. is this a reasonable development? the obvious answer is no. the european countries which meet the requirements for membership must of course be welcomed. however, there is neither rational reason nor popular support for moving further political tasks from the member states to brussels. on the contrary, the widely-acclaimed but never respected principle of subsidiarity suggests that a number of powers should be transferred back from the eu institutions to the national parliaments. that this is the will of the people is shown by the referendums in france and the netherlands and by what we know of the opinion of the people in many other member states. we are witnessing the end of an era in the history of the european union, the end of an era in which the political elite could pursue its ambitions and plans without regard for the will of the people. the reason this has been possible in the past is that the party structure in western europe reflects 20th century political issues, ranked along a right-left scale. the established parties, with few exceptions, are in favour of a continuous shift of political power from the parliaments of the member states to brussels. the citizens cannot therefore express their opposition to this development in general elections to the european parliament. referendums on eu issues and sometimes elections to the european parliament open up the possibility for the european people to express their views on the role of the eu. then you take that opportunity and say no to the transfer of power. it is important that we keep this in mind now as we discuss the eu budget for 2007-13. there is no popular support for increased spending in a union where over 70% of the budget goes to agricultural policy and the regional funds. we reserve the right to reject the temporary committee's proposal for a budget line of 1.07 per cent of gnp in appropriations for payments and 1.18 per cent in commitments. we believe that the total payment appropriations should be within 1% of the eu countries' combined gnp, as proposed by the g6 countries.
madam president, i would like to thank you. what is at stake is a priority of union spending. not only must you be able to prioritize what is important, but you must also be able to give less priority to what is less important. we must also be able to prioritise between what are the common tasks of the union - the most important tasks - and what are the important tasks of the member states. we have not reached that stage in this work on the budgetary plan. if the commission's proposal had been implemented, it would have meant an increase in the swedish membership fee by almost a third. it had reduced the scope for the investments that had to be made in growth and new jobs in sweden, and it had created bigger budgetary problems. if we want europe to become the most competitive knowledge-based economy in the world, it is not reasonable to give priority to the contributions of the rich member states at the expense of developing a common infrastructure in our weakest regions. there has not yet been sufficient priority given to this. it is also not right that we should give priority to the marketing of european agriculture in the third world while neglecting the most important initiatives in the european knowledge and research community. if you, the council and the commission, are not able to ensure that in the negotiations we can now achieve the objective of 3% of the european economy to support knowledge and research, so that european research can be at the forefront of the european knowledge society, then you are failing to make one of the most important priorities that europe needs. the rapporteur has done a great job, with clear priorities. the commission did not do so, and the council now seems to be reducing the investment that should be made in research. don't do that to me! europe needs support for research.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i thank commissioner reding for his answer. i'm not sure whether to be reassured or worried, though. there is a conflict here between the rules of the internal market and the possibility of the public service to operate. i would urge the commission to be clearer than you are now that the public service really has full freedom to shape its activities, without this being seen as a restriction on the internal market. it is very important that the commission takes the opportunity to be clear also externally on this issue. there is a great concern because the public service has a great deal of commitment among our citizens. it is particularly important these days to show that we do not believe that the market should take over everything, but that culture and public service should continue to play their role.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the minimum tax level for alcoholic beverages may be as low as zero today, but others have opted for a higher tax level, mainly for health reasons. unlimited mobility imposes, through unfair tax competition, on virtually all countries the policy of the lowest taxed member state. this would be the effect if we use the term personal use without time limit. since many alcoholic beverages can be stored for a lifetime, a person may argue that a truckload of alcohol is for personal use for the next 40 years, leaving smugglers free to go. a 120-day principle allows for differences in consumption levels between countries and, for example, birthday celebrations, but still has a legal reference to what can be considered reasonable for personal use. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the word 'smoking' in the wording of the directive. that is hardly the view of the house, since it would be contrary to article 30 of the treaty.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank john bowis for this excellent report. there are many sick and health-care-demanding people across europe who have much to gain from the vision of increased opportunities to move across borders that we are promoting here. unfortunately, there are politicians and bureaucrats in europe who do not take kindly to the increased mobility and freedom of choice. they see freedom of choice as a threat to their own ability to plan and regulate, a threat to their own power. that is why in so many member states, including sweden, it may be impossible for a sick person to even seek treatment in another part of the country. in this report we make it clear that we are not on the side of the bureaucrats in this conflict, but on the side of the patients. i would like to stress, however, that i too believe that health care is a national concern. our job is to break down barriers and make sure that patients can seek care where they need it. free movement provides both competition between health systems that drive development and a more efficient use of scarce health resources. in sweden, patients may have to wait in queues for years for treatment that is out of reach in other countries. by breaking down barriers, we create the conditions for both development and efficiency. this will improve health care in our member states and provide more people with enough. i would like to ask my colleagues to vote in favour of amendment no 5, tabled by myself, john bowis and ria oomen-ruijten for the ppe-de group. the amendment adds a new paragraph 4a to the text, which does not stipulate that we should remove health care services from the services directive. if there are any service companies operating in an environment of regulation and monopoly that impedes mobility and competition, it is the healthcare companies. it is not even part of this debate, where we are discussing the mobility of patients, not of carers. it is important to emphasise the knowledge of health care in different countries. we need to educate patients so they can benefit from the opportunities we're opening up for them. i would therefore like to conclude by inviting you all to a seminar on 15 june in brussels. for the first time, we will present a real ranking of european health systems, with facts from the patient's perspective. welcome to the club, everybody.
mr president, i would like to thank you. "never have so many europeans had so few things to be thankful for", i say to the french people. they showed, along with the dutch people, that they are tired of the establishment continuing to push through proposals that move power away from the people to the closed rooms of government offices and the boardrooms of big corporations. the problem is not that the eu is moving too fast, but in the wrong direction. the eu is stuck in yesterday's problems. the eu integrates states and maximises production instead of integrating people and maximising social and environmental protection. stop torturing the constitution. let it die in peace and call a new process where each municipality has its own convention. then, use their proposals for european cooperation with a local dimension as the basis for a new draft.
in writing. a firm prioritisation of the european union's resources is crucial to bringing about the changes europe needs. the enlargement and integration of the union's countries must be given priority, as must the fight against crime and the task of making the eu the most competitive economy in the world. the support for the weakest regions must be given priority, as must the ambition to increase the eu's research budget substantially. the eu's role in combating poverty, fighting infectious diseases, climate change, etc. also needs to be given priority. we cannot accept an increase in administrative costs of 3% per annum. low taxes on labour and business are a prerequisite for making europe a successful economy. this requires room in the fiscal policies of the member states. we therefore consider that the levels of commitments and payments adopted by the european parliament are too high. in order to reduce the eu budget, we want to review the 2002 agreement on agricultural expenditure and review regional aid with a re-prioritization of the poorest regions. for these reasons, we abstained in the final vote - and did not vote against - because we can support substantial parts of parliament's proposals. but we cannot give our support to the excessive level of expenditure, especially since the distribution is not in line with our priorities.
in writing. the written reservation by lars wohlin to the böge report and the speech by hélène goudin in parliament on 7 june 2005 summarise well why junilistan chose to vote against this report. we support the demand of the swedish government and the other five countries that the eu budget should not exceed 1.00% of gnp, either in payments or commitments. the eu must meet its commitments to the 10 new member states, but this expenditure is contained in the current spending framework. the difference between our demand for 1.00% and the european parliament (and commission) proposal is that the eu-15 (except greece and portugal) must first of all refrain from support from the cohesion fund. the junilists welcome the co-financing initiative and hope that it will open the way to the future renationalisation of, among other things, agricultural policy. we also support the idea of a correction mechanism to compensate those countries which under the current system account for a disproportionate share of eu revenue. the correction mechanism will hopefully also be an alternative to the english rebate. both france and the netherlands have shown by their rejection of the constitution that they prefer less sovereignty to more. a swedish veto in the council against a bad compromise is a better alternative than a new longterm budget. a 'no' to this report is a 'yes' to greater subsidiarity.
in writing. the current rules on excise duties are sometimes unclear and difficult to apply. this leads to unnecessary additional work for individuals and businesses. we therefore welcome the commission's review of the rules on excise goods. at the same time, we are critical of several of the commission's proposals for solutions. that is why we have voted against the european parliament's legislative resolution today, which largely supported even the weaker parts of the commission's proposal. we believe that only goods transported by a private individual should be considered as a private transport and thus be exempt from taxation in the country of origin. both tobacco and alcohol may be exempted from the general requirement that excise duty be paid in the member state where the consumption of goods acquired for private use takes place. the reason for our position is that tobacco and alcohol are detrimental to public health. these products should therefore not be treated as any other product. we are also moving towards allowing private individuals to transport large volumes of fuel oil themselves. we believe that special excise duties should be allowed on goods which are harmful to our environment. in this way, you can control people's choices so that they become more environmentally friendly. in addition, traffic and transportation are safer if handled by professionals.
in writing. the current rules on excise duties are sometimes unclear and difficult to apply. this leads to unnecessary additional work for individuals and businesses. we therefore welcome the commission's review of the rules on excise goods. at the same time, we are critical of several of the commission's proposals for solutions. that is why we have voted against the european parliament's legislative resolution today, which largely supported even the weaker parts of the commission's proposal. we believe that only goods transported by a private individual should be considered as a private transport and thus be exempt from taxation in the country of origin. both tobacco and alcohol may be exempted from the general requirement that excise duty be paid in the member state where the consumption of goods acquired for private use takes place. the reason for our position is that tobacco and alcohol are detrimental to public health. these products should therefore not be treated as any other product. we are also moving towards allowing private individuals to transport large volumes of fuel oil themselves. we believe that special excise duties should be allowed on goods which are harmful to our environment. in this way, you can control people's choices so that they become more environmentally friendly. in addition, traffic and transportation are safer if handled by professionals.
in writing. today, for reasons of public health, i have decided not to support the report by mr rosati on the amendment of the directive on the general rules for excise goods such as alcohol and tobacco. neither the commission's proposal nor the european parliament's report protects public health to the extent that i consider desirable. when used correctly and in conjunction with other measures, indicative reference levels can play an important role in determining whether goods are held for commercial purposes or for the personal use of individuals. i therefore believe that the reference levels should be maintained in order to limit the harmful effects of alcohol and to reduce overall alcohol consumption. in addition, special efforts should be made to harmonise excise duty levels with the stated objective of reducing tobacco and alcohol related harm.
in writing. both the commission and the european parliament want to eliminate in practice the possibility of limited import quotas for alcohol and tobacco. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products. the swedish, finnish and danish governments instead want the indicative levels to be halved and to be regarded as maximum limits for private imports. the junilist therefore supports the position of the swedish, finnish and danish governments in the council. fortunately, this is an area where sweden still has a veto in the council, which is why this proposal should not be a threat to existing legislation.
in writing. the junilists believe that police and judicial cooperation should be intergovernmental, that criminal law should not be harmonised at eu level and that a european public prosecutor's office should not be set up. immigration and asylum policy should remain national in order to avoid the creation of a fortress europe. in addition, member states should determine the design of their democratic institutions, taking into account the copenhagen criteria and the european convention on human rights and fundamental freedoms. we cannot therefore support the resolution.
in writing. an effective anti-discrimination policy is important, as is a well-functioning minority protection system. however, these are issues which, in accordance with the copenhagen criteria, are for each member state to consider and should not be decided at eu level. the junilist believes that the council of europe and the european court of justice should be responsible for the political and legal controls.
mr president, i would like to thank you. eu member states have different views on how to reform the un system. let the member states discuss this with the other un members. this discussion should not be conducted within the framework of eu cooperation but in a broader international context. it is clear that an eu strategy for reforming the un system is largely aimed at safeguarding european rather than global interests. the resolution stresses that the aim is that eu countries will in the long term speak with a single voice in the security council. we are against this proposal. it is clear that the european countries have different foreign policy positions. this was particularly evident in the context of the iraq war. france and the united kingdom are examples of countries that often have different views on foreign policy issues. would it be possible at all to speak with a single european voice in the security council? would the voices of small countries like sweden be heard at all?
replacement of the questioner. thank you for your answer. i must ask, however, whether the judgment of the turkish supreme court on 25 may is not alarming. this sentence deprives children of their natural right to be taught in their mother tongue and to develop in their own cultural background. the judgment of the supreme court is a violation of human and democratic rights. in addition to violating these rights, the judgment also dissolves the teachers' union, thus depriving it of the right to represent its 200,000 members. it's a violation of the ilo convention. the council should inform turkey that the door which has been opened can be closed again if human rights are not respected.
madam president, i would like to thank you. when that judgment was given, i put a question to the commission on this subject. it is a matter of civil and human rights, and we are all appalled by what has happened. my question to the council is: will this be coordinated, given that this is a matter for the council and the commission as well as for the european parliament? what happened is very serious. i would like to know whether you are coordinating this or whether we will resume the discussion when i receive my reply from the commission.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i question whether the eu is really interested in achieving a sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. it is contradictory that the eu is advocating this in the report, while the union has fisheries agreements with countries in, for example, africa. these third country agreements contribute to the depletion of the world's oceans and hamper the ability of many developing countries to build a profitable fishing industry of their own. a recent report by the swedish fisheries agency criticises eu agreements with third countries. the criticism is that none of these agreements promote sustainable fishing and are not implemented in a way that complies with the fao code of conduct. several ngos share this view and have pointed out that the agreements have a predominantly negative impact on coastal communities. if sustainable development of fisheries resources is indeed a priority for the eu, the union should not only promote action in the mediterranean, as in this report, but also advocate and implement a radical review of the union's fisheries agreements with third countries. in this report parliament has made changes to the commission's proposal in favour of the fishing industry. this does not promote sustainable development. the eu should not be working on fisheries issues. this type of issue should be addressed at regional and subregional level as far as possible. fisheries issues requiring international cooperation can be handled with advantage in the framework of international bodies where national special interests are not as evident as in the eu.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank duarte freitas for a good report which the verts/ale group will support. industrial tuna fishing is not only threatening tuna stocks but also other species. the most famous is the dolphin. the agreement on the international dolphin conservation programme was reached because many of our citizens wanted to protect dolphins from dying as a result of poor fishing practices. it is important that these objectives are met as we now ensure that the agreement is implemented in our legislation. the work has been quite successful so far, as my colleagues have described. amendments nos 9 and 11, which the verts/ale group tabled in committee and which were supported there, are important to ensure that consumers are not deceived by the labelling. a reference to article 3 of the 2003 regulation is important to also give all those who meet the conditions the right labelling requirements and to ensure that no one can profit from it in an unscrupulous way. we cannot but mention it, because this is parliament's opportunity to express this will to you as you negotiate further. we also need to evaluate the dolphin-safe methods. they can get better, so they don't harm other species. so-called log sets kill sea turtles and many other species. i know that the aidcp has started work to improve these methods. it is important that we keep abreast of developments and use the best possible methods.
in writing. we believe that it should be up to each member state to decide whether to accede to the convention on the conservation of dolphins. this is not a matter for the european parliament.
in writing. we are against the eu paying financial aid to the fishing industry in connection with biological recovery periods. this position does not mean that we support the commission's proposal. we welcome certain phrases in the parliament's report, such as that measures relating to migratory species should be handled within regional fisheries organisations. we are voting against the report as a whole because we do not think that the eu should be working on fisheries issues. we are in favour of regional fisheries issues being handled through cooperation between the countries concerned.
in writing. to avoid the formation of a fortress europe, it is important that we do not create a single european asylum and refugee policy. it should be left to each member state to pursue a more generous policy in this area if it so wishes, which is prevented if the member states are bound by common eu standards. the junilist cannot therefore support the report.
in writing. we chose to vote in favour of the european parliament's own-initiative report on patient mobility in the final vote. we did so because we believe that the text of the resolution as a whole expresses our views on health care. however, there are parts of the european parliament's resolution which express certain supranational ambitions in the field of health care which we cannot accept. each country is responsible for the health and medical care of its citizens. when residents are temporarily in another eea country, their european health insurance card entitles them to unplanned treatment there. we think this is a good system and it seems to be working well. citizens have the right to influence how their tax money is spent. if patients are to be able to choose health care in another member state and have it paid for by the taxpayers of their home country, that principle is threatened. we also fear that such a system would be very costly and favour patients with more resources at the expense of the most vulnerable patients. we also believe that healthcare issues should not be dealt with in the proposal for a service directive.
in writing. eu citizens are currently entitled to healthcare in other member states and to receive reimbursement for this care in their home country. this is considered to be a natural part of the internal market. we welcome a uniform framework clarifying the right to seek medical care in another eu country. we therefore welcome the commission communication on patient mobility (com (2004) 0301). the report by parliament deals with areas which are outside the measures necessary to achieve satisfactory rules on access to health care in another eu country. the report covers everything from telemedicine to eu research on patient mobility. we have therefore voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. several of the proposals in the resolution are good on how to reform the united nations, including an enlarged and more representative security council, strengthened environmental work and an emphasis on the link between development and the environment. nevertheless, we cannot support the report because it also seeks to strengthen the eu's common foreign policy. the eu is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is enshrined in the treaty on european union. the latter proposal clearly shows that the eu has the ambition to act as a state in international contexts, which we clearly oppose. in our opinion, the swedish people should make their voice heard directly in the un, not through the eu.
in writing. the resolution can be seen as the european parliament's wish list for the forthcoming eu-us summit in washington on 20 june 2005. it contains proposals for eu-us cooperation in a range of areas, including security policy, the environment, energy and the economy. several of the demands are good, but we do not believe that the eu should represent 25 member states vis-à-vis the united states, including in the field of security policy. that is why we cannot support the resolution.
in writing. the resolution on the situation in uzbekistan is another example of the european parliament's ambition to strengthen the union's common foreign and security policy. we oppose this development. uzbekistan is not, in our view, in the eu's immediate vicinity. we believe that other organisations - such as the un, the osce and the council of europe - have a mandate in this case to act in conflict prevention and to strengthen human rights. we therefore support the call for an independent inquiry into the situation in the country initiated by the un, with the support of the osce, among others.
in writing. on employment and production and the contribution of these factors to economic growth and social integration in the new member states both reports contain general recommendations on how eu member states should conduct their economic policies. although we can support several of the proposals in substance, it is not the eu's task to define this policy. the countries themselves should find the appropriate solutions to the design of economic policy through institutional competition. the countries which introduced transitional labour mobility rules for the ten new member states should be entitled to retain them. but it is a good idea to review the rules because the problem of free labour immigration from the new eu countries has been dramatically exaggerated. for the reasons stated above, we vote against both reports.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the eu is clearly in crisis. the clear 'no' vote in the two referendums has left the whole of the eu in a kind of vacuum of great uncertainty about the future. i am of course sorry that the french and the dutch rejected the constitutional treaty, but such a clear 'no' must be respected. it is therefore wise to pause and take some time now to analyse, listen and reflect on how we can move forward to implement the reforms that the eu so badly needs. the crisis was of course aggravated by the 'budget fiasco', but in many ways no budget is better than a bad budget. i don't think this budget was very modern. but we cannot put the whole of the eu in a freezer and wait for the mistrust that many feel towards the eu to suddenly disappear. more than ever, we need leadership, someone who dares to stand up for visions, for european cooperation and to defend the decisions taken in brussels. in this context, i would like to pay tribute to the president-in-office for his outspoken speech and for his attempt to reconcile very different views. we cannot allow the wet wettex cloth that has spread all over europe to paralyse cooperation. we have a lot of work to do. we have the lisbon process and the mythical services directive that is really needed. we must fight cross-border crime. we have the ambitious environmental work of reach, and there's a lot of work to do in foreign policy. the list of foreign policy measures 33 pages of council conclusions was indeed written before the council even began, but it nevertheless gives the appearance of great unity and high ambitions, which is very good. the eu has a major role to play in the world and must continue to do so. however, i am concerned about enlargement, madam president. the council's conclusions are almost ignored. we cannot take the referendums as a means of putting enlargement on hold in any way. the enlargement of the union to ten new member states just over a year ago is a glorious success for the whole of the european union. bringing east and west together is the best thing we've ever done. the european home, which at the moment may not feel so cosy and inhabited, must be open to our neighbours when they meet the necessary requirements. we cannot pretend that the enlargement process is also being put on hold and that they are being left to wait. in many ways, europe is the answer to the questions in these countries, even though it may not seem like the answer to their questions to our citizens. soon all the institutions will have summer vacation. perhaps more than ever, we need to take a few weeks of rest, a pause for reflection, and to consider how we are to move forward. i think in the long run it will be seen that something good will come out of this crisis. europe is worth it, but then we must really make an effort to ensure that the pause in the ratification process does not also become a pause for european cooperation as a whole. that would be disastrous.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the french and dutch referendums and last week's summit really exposed the european project as an elite project with no popular support. to call the people's vote a crisis is to demonstrate clearly that one does not really believe in a democratic europe. we must now state that the draft constitution has been defeated under the union's own rules. two of the founding countries have already said no. it's settled. so the question is: what are we gonna do now? in my view, we should convene a new convention that is democratically elected so that it reflects the opinion of the people on this issue and not the opinion of the elite. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it was an attempt to stuff the people of europe with something they didn't want. firstly, there is a need to revise existing treaties in such a way that they are easy to understand and to understand, which is not a major political issue, but simply a matter of simple revision. secondly, we must review the rules for decision-making in the areas where we have already said that we will take joint decisions. thirdly, there were all sorts of plans for a common defence, a common foreign policy and a whole host of other things which are absolutely not to be discussed in this context. it should not be in something that looks like a constitution, but it is a matter for the people of europe to discuss in the future. we shall start from scratch, show respect for the popular vote and then look at it from a democratic point of view with democratically elected citizens in a convention.
mr president, council, commissioner wallström and members of the public! when you took over the presidency in luxembourg, you had to deal with the tsunami, a natural disaster. you're going to end up with a summit without a budget and a new treaty. the excellent foreign policy decisions are unfortunately not widely known. thank you for the many results! in the meantime, luxembourg has ensured that bulgaria and romania have become members and that turkey can start negotiations in october. you have made history. thank you for that! europe is not in crisis, because the debate is not about countries wanting to leave the eu. the referendums have said more with the right things, the council the right things better for the future. the citizens want us to clarify the objectives, i.e. more jobs, order and clarity in the labour market, social responsibility, international solidarity, the fight against crime, sustainable development and a europe of equality. finally, we are having a debate in our member states about the future that the citizens of the eu now want to be part of. it is not enough that we here in brussels do a lot of good things if no one knows about it or cares. i am hopeful and look forward to a lively debate, but this time it is with all those who wish to participate. so let us not turn to ashes, yellow cards or deprecation. a pause for thought, but not for inaction! let us challenge citizens and demand engagement and answers to questions that guide how we want the eu to develop. we need to listen and talk less. it is difficult for us politicians, but we will come out of this period of reflection stronger. finally, the debate is about politics, about the future and the aims of the european union, and i welcome it.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the swedish junilist believes that members of the european parliament should receive a salary from their respective national parliaments and receive a uniform remuneration from the european parliament. the principle of subsidiarity shall be the guiding principle. it is for each member state to determine the remuneration of its members. the national remuneration of meps is adjusted to the actual salaries and the cost situation in each member state. members should receive remuneration from their home country and pay tax in their respective home countries. in principle, we believe that the eu should not set the salary of the members of parliament elected by the citizens of each of the eu countries. it would be unreasonable for an mep in a low-wage country to be paid several times more than people in similar or higher posts in their home country. a common statute for meps could, for example, have the effect of making the meps of one country receive several times more than the head of state or government of that country. it is important that meps are not regarded as a privileged elite by the voters in their home country, and that the conditions are more or less in line with the national pay situation for corresponding positions. the current system of travel allowances without regard to actual costs, which is based on flat-rate allowances, is in our view completely unreasonable. members shall be reimbursed only for the actual costs of their travel. the travel allowance system can be reformed without the adoption of a common statute. for the reasons stated, the junilista has chosen to vote against the proposal. in conclusion, i would point out that the members of parliament are called members, 'député', in the statutes. it seems strange, then, that in some lands people refer to themselves as honorable, honourable. such expressions are obsolete in a democratic eu.
for the pse group. mr president, commissioner frattini, you are here. i would like to begin by thanking michael cashman and others for a very good report. as asylum, refugee policy and immigration are issues which we in the committee devote a lot of time to, it was necessary first to have clear rules on the community code and the border crossings for persons. the fact that we can now re-establish controls and jointly tighten up the external borders makes the eu's borders better. the opportunities for traffickers, importers of women and children for prostitution, criminals and drug traffickers to move freely across borders are being hampered, while people, despite their foreign appearance, and groups can now feel welcome. when we vote yes tomorrow, we can tackle one of the committee's major tasks, asylum and immigration policy. we have so many common questions about how we in the eu should safeguard these very values. we want a more open europe, but that requires common solutions and respect for countries, respect between countries and between people and groups. this is the first step. thank you again for a very good report!
mr president, the lisbon strategy is a very important tool to enhance european economic growth and when we negotiated this in the parliament we were very clear that we wanted sustainable economic growth. despite this, in your speech, mr blair, you hardly mentioned environmental questions at all. environmentally driven industry has two and a half times the growth rate that is normal in european industry. environmentally driven questions are also key to economic growth, so i want a message on this from you, mr blair. secondly, i am negotiating the chemical directive as rapporteur. right now that is one of the very few things that can deliver a result to the european citizen during your presidency. therefore it would be very nice to also have a clear result on this to ensure that the future is not blurred but blaired.
mr. speaker, this is prime minister blair. europe is better off than ever. i say this because a large part of the current debate is about the view on enlargement. i am one of those who believe that enlargement with the ten new member states has made europe safer, more stable and has created better conditions for peace and prosperity than ever before. for me, this is an argument for further enlargement, not an argument for trying to close europe's borders now. one of the main tasks of the new leadership in europe will be to anchor and develop the vision of how europe can create greater security and greater prosperity by linking the countries now facing enlargement. prime minister blair, i believe that the problems we face today in the eu are linked to the fact that europe is better than ever. at the same time, this makes the european union a greater challenge than before. it is not, as is sometimes said, a conflict between the old and the new europe or a conflict between a free-trade europe and political union. the european union is a political union and must face its task in that light. it is the break from the old eu, the old european union of six, nine, twelve or fifteen members, to the european union of 25 member states of today. this requires respect for variety and diversity and also an ability to take advantage of the dynamics that exist throughout europe. this requires openness towards the new member states. it requires the ability to find common denominators, to invest in the knowledge society instead of the subsidy society, to invest in new enterprises instead of making agricultural aid an obstacle to the research and development we need. i hope, on behalf of the swedish moderates, that you will lay the foundations for the new leadership that the new europe and the new european union need.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank prime minister blair for an inspiring speech. i share the view that europe needs to change. i share the view that the eu needs to be more active in the world. i share the view that the eu is not just a free trade area but also a political union. i also share the views on the budget. the british rebate is old, but just as old is agricultural policy and what we are investing in in agricultural policy today. this too needs to change. we need to invest in research and development, skills development and more. what we talk about during and after important meetings must be translated into action. i also share the view of the social europe. it is true that you were involved in introducing the social protocol, the employment strategy and the active labour market policy into eu cooperation. all of this was good, but we have to move on and find a balance. we must therefore have a proposal for a services directive which balances trade in services, because that is what we need. at the same time, we need good labour market conditions, high environmental standards and consumer rights. we also need a working time directive which takes account of what you said about combining family and working life, so that neither of us is working to death and so that we do not compete with long working hours. we need a staffing directive, not to break the legs of the staffing companies, but to create a framework. if you manage to open up trade and open up borders, but at the same time develop social europe, then we in the socialist group will support you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i just want to point out a mistake in the swedish version. what is article 23 (2) in other language versions is article 12 (7) in the english version.
in writing. today parliament voted on the long-debated statute for members. there are some dubious aspects, but for the most part it is an improvement on the existing rules on travel allowances, taxes and pensions. reimbursement will be for actual travel costs instead of a high standard fee. the statute also provides that all members will receive a common salary from 2009. this is particularly important in order to ensure that our colleagues from the new member states receive a fair level of pay and to reduce the pay gap between those who earn the least and those who earn the most. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. we have long supported the move towards a statute for assistants and reimbursement of actual costs. we will continue to do so in the future. however, in order to ensure that the statute agreed with the council is adopted, we have today voted against all the amendments tabled in plenary and voted in favour of the committee's report. a change in the compromise compromises the unity of the council and thus the possibility of agreeing on the statute of members at all.
in writing. we want to emphasize once again our principled position on this matter. we believe that members of the european parliament should receive their salaries from the respective national parliaments. the principle of subsidiarity shall be the guiding principle. it is for each member state to determine the remuneration of its members. the national allowances of members of the european parliament are adjusted to take account of the actual wage and cost situation in each member state. members should receive remuneration from their home country and pay tax in their respective home countries. it is important that meps are not regarded as a privileged elite by the voters in their home country, but that the conditions are more or less in line with the national pay situation for corresponding positions. the current system of travel allowances, without regard to actual costs, and based on flat-rate allowances, is in our view totally unreasonable. members shall be reimbursed only for the actual costs of their travel. the travel allowance system can be reformed without adopting a common statute. we have voted against the proposal for a common statute.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the voluntary pension fund should also have been abolished with immediate effect. instead, the conference of presidents should implement the plenary's decision on travel reimbursement for actual costs instead of blocking this reform as hitherto in order to use the issue of travel reimbursement in the negotiations with the council.'
in writing. in principle, the left party believes that it is wrong to vote on one's own salaries and allowances. the left party supports the proposal to finally abolish the standard allowance for members' travel. it is positive that compensation should henceforth be paid on the basis of actual costs. the left party, however, does not support the proposal on wages, as the level of wages is too high. political appointees must not become an economic elite through high salaries. the tax is of course to be paid nationally, not eu-wide. the criticism also applies to an overly favourable pension system. for the reasons i have given, i shall abstain from voting on the final vote.
in writing. the junilist broadly supports the compromise agreed between the council, the commission and parliament. the code clarifies many points of previously unclear rules, which are scattered among several sources of law. in particular, we welcome the strengthening of protection against discrimination in the conduct of border checks and the possibility for third-country nationals who have been refused entry to appeal against decisions. however, we do not share the rapporteur's view that the ecj should be given jurisdiction to rule on matters relating to the reintroduction of internal border controls and therefore welcome the fact that the council has not accepted these proposals. the junilist group believes that each member state should reserve the right to re-establish its own border controls if it considers this necessary to combat drug smuggling, illegal trafficking in human beings and human trafficking, and if it is necessary to withdraw from schengen.
in writing. the report aims to create a legal basis for cooperation and trade relations with the following industrialized countries: the united states, canada, japan, south korea, australia and new zealand. the cooperation will include support for the centre for european affairs. trade cooperation includes exchanges, conferences and leadership training. we support the eu's common commercial policy, but have difficulty justifying the budgeted cost of the measures of eur 17 million until 2007. the results of the french and dutch referendums show that the eu's bureaucracy must be reduced. that is why unnecessary expenditure must also be eliminated. in view of this, we are voting against the report.
in writing. junilista supports both un resolutions on darfur and the congo, which imply that persons obstructing the peace process, violating humanitarian law and human rights or breaking arms embargoes should be prevented from travelling within the territory of the member states and that the funds, financial assets and economic resources that may be associated with them should be blocked. we do not, however, want to contribute to the development of a common foreign and security policy for the eu. all member states are obliged to implement the measures decided by the un security council under chapter vii of the un charter, and therefore a joint decision at eu level is not necessary. the junilista has therefore voted against the reports.
in writing. we are opposed to the eu's common fisheries policy. however, we have chosen to support this report because parliament's position is closer to the recovery plan adopted by the northwest atlantic fisheries organisation (nafo) than the commission's proposal.
in writing. the moderate delegation voted today in favour of the report on security research. we believe that it is important to develop a structured and effective security research programme in order to guarantee, among other things, the credibility of the eu and a qualified intelligence capability in the context of the european security and defence policy. however, we object to certain points in the report, on the one hand those relating to the budgetary allocation for security research, which the rapporteur relates to a percentage of gdp, and on the other hand those relating to worldwide observation and data collection.
in writing. the report aims to develop a european security research programme (esrp) to be launched in 2007. we are not opposed in principle to joint research efforts at european level, but we are opposed to the esdp's objective of contributing to an integrated european defence market. we therefore vote against the report as a whole.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the second reading recommendation before us is a success for consumers. it is a success for the health of children and a very good example of how the precautionary principle should be applied. when we have concrete warnings from the scientific experts that public health is threatened, it is our duty as politicians to act. one important reason why we have achieved this success in parliament is that the rapporteur, mr trakatellis, has been so firm and decisive in the negotiations. i would like to thank him for the way in which he has carried out this work which has enabled us to reach this agreement, so that even the last three controversial phthalates can be banned in products which are children's toys and are used for children between three and six years of age. there has been a great deal of discussion in the committee about the amount of scientific evidence needed to make such a decision. i think we know enough when several of the recognised committees say that this is dangerous and involves risks. then we have an obligation to act. this is the precautionary principle. there is another aspect of this decision which i would also like to highlight, namely that it is now more comprehensive by including products relating to child hygiene, which is a fairly large market for these products. it is important that we have got this through the negotiations and that these products are covered by the decision. of course, our whole group will support the proposal for compromise with the council of ministers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we've learned that a monopoly situation doesn't work well. we have also learned that a deregulated market requires quality control, both in terms of the diversity of production to guarantee the supply of electricity and to meet demand, and in terms of the control of the network itself and its structure. we have also learned that we have to check that these investments are actually being made. in sweden we have had a very long power cut after the big storm last winter. it became very clear that none of these quality controls had been fully implemented. this means not only that industrial production is halted, but that other vital functions of society are affected and that the quality of life of people is dramatically reduced. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, but also the commission, on an excellent and pioneering work on value for voters.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is a very complex issue that is the subject of enormous lobbying by various groups. i think it's great that for once the citizens care about what we do in this house. we're not spoiled for choice. a well-functioning patent system in europe is important. individual inventors and companies must of course be able to patent their inventions, including those related to computers. the trend today, however, is that pure software is also patented, which is not good. we need researchers, innovators and individual software developers who can come up with new ideas without risking infringing trivial patents and endless lawsuits. firstly, we should reject the whole proposal, calling on the commission to come back with a comprehensive proposal for a community patent covering all inventions. it is wrong to break out software-related inventions as a separate sector. secondly, we must change the common position, which is not a good legal text. it contains too many ambiguities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today, we can choose whether we want an old-fashioned patent law with an old-fashioned view of big business and an old-fashioned view of development or a modern, small-scale, creative development with a modern law. everyone says they don't want software patents. we've seen the disaster in the united states when you do that. the only way to prove that today is to vote for the 21 compromise amendments that i and many others have signed. we will then have intelligent, balanced legislation that supports creativity and a sound patent system. if you vote against it, you're putting yourself in the hands of the big corporations. it leads to legislation that makes software that controls a device patentable. it's like patenting the manuals of appliances. such a world is not modern.
in writing. we welcome the european parliament's resolution on an information and communication strategy for the euro and economic and monetary union (emu). at the same time, we voted against the european parliament's call to turn swedish opinion in favour of swedish entry into emu and a transition to the euro. we believe that the results of the swedish referendum should be respected. the question of swedish membership of emu and the euro is not relevant for the foreseeable future.
in writing. i have voted against the own-initiative report on an information and communication strategy for the euro and for economic and monetary union for two main reasons. firstly, i believe that it is up to each member state to decide how it wishes to conduct the debate on the euro. it should not be handled from the commission's side. secondly, the experience of central european campaigns is generally poor and represents a waste of resources which should not be promoted. discussions on monetary policy and currency should instead take place through a dialogue between citizens and policy makers. that is why i voted against this report today.
in writing. i cannot support the european parliament's resolution on an information and communication strategy for the euro and economic and monetary union (emu). i think it is up to each member state to decide whether it wants an information and communication strategy or campaigns for the euro and emu. i also believe that the swedish referendum result of 2003, when the swedes voted against the euro, should be respected. the question of swedish membership of emu and the introduction of the euro is not an issue for the foreseeable future.
in writing. i believe that sweden should join emu and i share the rapporteur's positive attitude towards the euro. i have, however, chosen to abstain on this report. one of the main conclusions of the report is that the commission should have an information campaign on the excellence of the euro. i believe that information campaigns by the commission are neither helpful nor appropriate if we want to get more citizens to be sympathetic to the euro. this is not what we're going to use taxpayers' money for.
in writing. today i have chosen to cast my vote on the report by jules maatens on a communication strategy for the euro and emu. i share the rapporteur's positive attitude towards the euro and believe that sweden should join emu. what i do not support, however, is the commission's information campaign on the excellence of the euro. information campaigns by the commission are not the way to get more citizens to be in favour of the euro. this is not what we should be using taxpayers' money for.
in writing. the moderate delegation voted today in favour of a report supporting the fight against harmful child labour. it is essential to combat vigorously child labour harmful to children's physical or mental health and in accordance with the ilo conventions on child labour. companies have an important role to play and a responsibility to combat this type of child labour. the establishment of appropriate community safeguard clauses and mechanisms to detect and prosecute eu-based importers of products manufactured by children is a well-intentioned proposal. however, we moderates believe that this creates considerable legal uncertainty, which risks, rather than protecting the interests of children, the withdrawal of companies from the regions where there is a risk of child labour, rather than engaging in trade and investment.
in writing. the european parliament voted today in favour of a proposal for measures to combat child labour. child labor is something most people think is part of history, and so do i. unfortunately, not all countries of the world have followed suit. that is why i voted today in favour of a number of additional proposals which divide child labour into several categories, since child labourers, for example, may be the only alternative to prostitution.
in writing. today the european parliament adopted a report proposing various measures to combat child labour. the report states, inter alia, that education for all is essential to combat child poverty and poverty reduction. it is my firm belief that all children must be protected from harmful work. it is important to remember, however, that blanket bans are not a realistic option as long as poverty is widespread and educational opportunities are limited. some forms of work can contribute positively to this, for example by providing training at the workplace. the report also addresses corporate liability and proposes, inter alia, prosecution of companies importing products manufactured in violation of the ilo core conventions. i believe that the potential of industry to strengthen respect for human rights and international conventions should be fully exploited. i therefore strongly support initiatives such as the global compact and global responsibility (swedish government). however, legislation and the possibility of prosecution at eu level is well advanced. there is a risk that this would rather be contrary to its purpose, which is to improve the situation of children and to combat poverty.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, it seems to me that the proposal which is beginning to emerge from parliament is well in line with the longterm budget proposal we presented earlier, which is logical. i shall concentrate on the european social fund. the social fund has two general tasks. the first is to strengthen the employment strategy, and the second is to promote social inclusion and combat discrimination. this has become increasingly important. there are two major challenges facing the eu in the new society, in the globalised society, with the demographic changes. that is why these objectives are more important than ever. lifelong learning is essential to boost employment. europe will not be able to compete with india and china, with their social model, with their wages and conditions on the labour market. instead, we must compete, among other things, through research and development and the skills of the eu workforce. this is of course the responsibility of the member states, companies and social partners, but the eu can add value by strengthening skills across our territory. we have a number of disadvantaged groups who must be more involved in the development of society, but also in the labour market. we need all of them, and especially the women, in the labour market of the future to be able to cope with external competition. women are still underrepresented and discriminated against in the labour market. this also applies to people with disabilities, who are extremely excluded from the labour market today, as well as people from countries outside europe. let me make a few points. it is good that the transnational element is increasing. we're keeping the innovative element that has been in equal and other things. it is important that the social fund can interact with other funds to some extent at local and regional level. finally, i agree with mr špidla that it is important that the social partners and the partnership continue to play a prominent role in the work of the social fund.
mr president, i would like to thank you. europe needs a regional policy of solidarity. we have very large differences between regions in the eu, especially between new and old member states. this is not acceptable on a continent of prosperity. however, we cannot rely on the single economic market to bridge the gaps, and that is why we need the structural funds. the new regions should therefore receive a larger share of the structural funds, and the richer countries must have their own regional equalization policy. at the same time, however, eu countries must also emphasise that growth and research provide scope for regional development. the european parliament is now making a reasonable proposal, including a financial one. we also stress the importance of giving priority to environmental issues in the structural funds. finally, i would like to emphasize that the commission and the european parliament believe that there are regions with permanent geographical disadvantages, including rural and mountainous regions, which must also be compensated through the structural funds, since the geographical conditions do not change over time. i assume that the european council will also take this into account in the future budgetary plan.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the whole report is about the very foundation of all equality work, namely the right and the ability to be self-sufficient. i would like to highlight three aspects of this directive. the first point concerns equal pay for equal work. this is not new, but has been included in previous directives. however, the necessary reinforcement is also provided by the inclusion of the call for the social partners to take both initiative and responsibility for the principle of equal pay. despite the directive on equal pay, there are still large wage differences and discrimination is still taking place. the other part i want to point out is parental leave. parenting is no longer seen as a one-gender issue, but parents should be given the opportunity to share responsibility for their children. the third aspect i would like to highlight is equal treatment in working life. it must not only concern equal treatment of women established in the labour market, but also discrimination in recruitment and in terms of employment.
for the alde group. i am pleased to see that the commission has taken this step. foreign minister straw, on behalf of the liberal group, i would like to welcome you here and wish you good luck in your work. hardly a day goes by without reports of new attacks in iraq. suicide bombings, terrorist attacks, kidnappings and other attacks against iraqi and foreign civilians, journalists and military personnel are unfortunately becoming commonplace. most of us only need to watch it on tv, but the iraqi people live in the midst of this situation. it is a priority task for the entire international community to support the iraqi authorities in putting an end to the violence, rebuilding the country and establishing democracy, peace and stability. europe has a great responsibility to support this process with money, trade, aid, presence and all other possible help, such as police training and currency training. we've had many arguments here about the american invasion, but now we have to look ahead. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr dimitrakopoulos, on behalf of my group, for his work on the report and for his attempt to be so constructive and forward-looking. we don't have to dig ourselves into trenches. we don't have to go back to the old days. i would appeal to all groups to try to look ahead. to demand now that all troops withdraw would be a disaster for the iraqi people. more people are needed in iraq, and we strongly support the call to try to establish a un-led force with a european presence if possible. the iraqi people are brave and resilient. they showed it during the election, and they show it every day. the iraqi government has ambitious goals with its constitution. we naturally support the efforts to establish democratic institutions, strong protection for women and minorities and support for the rule of law. we also want to appeal to iraq to abolish the death penalty in the long term. the eu can be helpful if needed to provide expertise in constitutional work. the road forward towards democracy and security is difficult and will be long. if it succeeds, iraq will be a great example for the whole region, but that will require increased support from europe and from us here in the european parliament with contacts with the elected iraqi members.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by congratulating mr dimitrakopoulos on the enormous work he has put into this complex but extremely important issue. after the prosecution of saddam hussein's regime, the iraqi people have now been given the opportunity to rebuild their country freely and democratically. the parliamentary elections, held under heavy pressure from forces that were not interested in democracy or free elections, were the first step in the democratization process. it was also a chance for politics to win over terror and violence, but it didn't. although a transitional government has been formed and the drafting of a new constitution has begun, the security situation in iraq has not stabilised as it should have. on the contrary, the situation is such that efforts and a strong international presence will be required for a long time to come. it is obviously better the sooner iraq itself ensures the security of the country. however, as we have seen in other conflicts in our neighbourhood, such as the wars in the balkans, we cannot expect quick results. building peace and democracy takes time, even if all the forces in the country are positive. even more time is needed in countries such as iraq or bosnia where there are various groups opposed to the democratization process. however, we must have time and patience. we cannot afford to fail to support iraq's political democratization efforts or to withdraw the international forces from iraq too hastily, which would endanger the peace not only in iraq but also in its neighbourhood. therefore, the only option for us is to continue to support iraq, both politically and through a strong international presence, for as long as it is necessary. ferrero-waldner rightly pointed out that europe is united today in its efforts to rebuild iraq. in my view, it is precisely this unity that would lead to the stabilization of the situation in iraq and the overcoming of the problems we have today.
in writing. the report seeks to bring the eu into line with unece regulations nos 94 and 95. the aim is to remove technical barriers to trade in the approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of occupants in the event of a head-on collision and a side-on collision. we choose to support the proposal because we support the eu's common commercial policy and consider it necessary to take measures to remove trade barriers. we also welcome the fact that this is happening within the framework of the un.
in writing. we have voted to withdraw the entire computer-related inventions bill. we are opposed to software patents and want to protect classical patent law and have had the ambition to improve the common position of the council of ministers. unfortunately, this has proved difficult and we risk having an unclear legal text that does not meet our requirements for legal certainty. this does not benefit large companies, small companies or software developers. the only people who benefit from a messy law are the patent attorneys. the consequences of some writings have also been difficult to overlook. it is desirable to harmonize this area, but we would rather do without the directive than contribute to bad legislation. it is therefore good that parliament wishes to reject the proposal. we believe that the commission should once again take up the issue of the community patent, which should apply to the whole of the eu. a major problem in this context is that the european patent office (epo) has issued a number of trivial patents and patents for pure software. however, the epo is not under the eu's jurisdiction but is governed by a larger specialised convention. if the eu is to take the lead in the matter of a legally secure and transparent patent system where patents are granted only for real inventions, we should introduce a community patent covering all areas, not just computer-related inventions.
in writing. many of the report's objectives on sustainable integration, social security and gender equality are worth pursuing. but these issues are best handled at lower decision-making levels, not at eu level. to control the eu's increasing centralisation and regulation, the union's tasks must be limited and its budget limited. against this background, we cannot support the proposal to allocate eur 336.2 billion to the european social fund from 2007 to 2013.
in writing. we moderates have today rejected the european parliament's proposal for a european fisheries fund. we believe that the european fisheries fund needs a proper restructuring, as the commission proposes. however, we do not think that fisheries policy needs more money.
in writing. we fully support equal treatment for women and men in the world of work. this is a key area which is being dealt with with merit by international organisations such as the ilo. we do not believe that the eu should regulate these kinds of issues in long-term reports, which have the character of political programmes. the eu should not control working time, parental leave and other important national issues. this is a matter for the member states to deal with independently, in accordance with the international agreements already adopted.
in writing. we are in principle in favour of the proposal to create uniform conflict-of-law rules for non-contractual obligations. the proposal would complement the brussels regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters and the rome convention on the law applicable to contractual obligations. this contributes to legal certainty and the proper functioning of the internal market. however, we believe it is important to ensure that the regulation does not conflict with freedom of the press and freedom of expression. sweden's constitutional protection of freedom of the press and of expression must remain unchanged. nor is it appropriate to apply foreign law in the assessment of the admissibility of trade union action taken under swedish law on swedish territory. in both these areas, it is also doubtful whether there is a legal basis in the ec treaty for such a regulation. we therefore support the amendments which apply the law of the country where the actions are carried out to trade union action and reject the amendments which involve unacceptable interference with national rules on freedom of the press and of expression.
in writing. we voted in favour of the report on the mandate for the conciliation procedure for the 2006 budget before the council's first reading. it provides a good basis for the continuation of the budgetary process. we do, however, believe that the structure of the eu budget must be more modern. this requires, among other things, a reform of the common agricultural policy, with a reduction in intervention prices on agricultural markets, a reduction in direct payments and a gradual transition to national co-financing. a reduction in the amounts for the international fisheries agreements is also justified. we also believe that cohesion policy should focus on the needs of the new member states.
in writing. we believe that the eu is a union of values and that turkey is part of its neighbourhood. that is why we also support the report which seeks to strengthen the role of women in turkey. we support turkey's accession to the eu, but we believe that neither turkey nor the eu are ready for unification today. turkey does not meet the human rights requirements for membership. the eu must also change. the rigid bureaucratic structure and costly agricultural policy must be fundamentally reformed before turkey can become a member.
in writing. the un has an important role to play in the reconstruction of iraq and in ensuring the establishment of democratic institutions. we support the parts of the report which stress the role of the un in building a democratic and stable iraq. at the same time, it is clear that the report seeks to strengthen the eu's foreign and security policy mandate. the strengthening of the eu in this area risks weakening the un. we therefore vote against the report as a whole.
in writing. we wholeheartedly support the fight against global poverty. we believe that the eu can make a valuable contribution to this urgent battle by pushing for a radical reform of the union's protectionist trade policy, by ending the eu's destructive fisheries agreements with third countries and by ending the payment of export refunds to european producers of products such as milk and sugar. however, the resolution contains extremely limited wording on this type of urgent reform. we believe that the eu should not be involved in aid matters, but that this type of important matter should be dealt with by the member states. international coordination of aid operations shall be carried out within the framework of organisations with long experience and broad legitimacy, such as the united nations and its bodies.
in writing. the junilist supports the swedish government's demand that cohesion aid be reduced from the proposed €336.1 billion to just under €200 billion in the 2007-13 budget plan. the reports should address the most appropriate way of reducing expenditure in order to approximate to the g6 requirements of a budget not exceeding 1.00% of member states' gni. the basis of all cohesion policy must be that aid should go to the poorest countries. today, far too much money is going to poor regions in relatively rich countries. the current system is not only unfair to the poorest countries, it can also appear cynical, because rich countries are not allowed to help less prosperous regions in the same way as they could if most of cohesion policy were internationalised.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the resolution we are voting on tomorrow is important, not only because it comes at a time when, ten years after the massacre, there are still people who do not believe that it happened, but also because neither the serbian parliament nor the parliament of bosnia-herzegovina has been able to agree on a similar resolution. the serb members of the bosnian parliament could not accept either the text of the resolution or the compromise proposals. someone has just today placed a bomb at the monument erected in srebrenica in memory of all the victims. as someone who was born in bosnia and who has experienced the war that we are talking about today, i feel a responsibility to convey to you at least a small part of all the emotions that we had to deal with on a daily basis during the war. the world was shocked by the video images of executions of young men shown in the hague recently. we lived in these pictures. so i want to describe to you what it's like to be on the other side. i will now read part of a defendant's story to the hague tribunal, written by a journalist and author who has followed the trial. "the defendant caught sight of a young boy getting off the bus. the boy could have been 15 years old or younger. the boy looked at the soldiers and then at the rows of dead bodies in the field. his eyes got bigger, like he was having trouble absorbing what he was seeing. as the prisoners knelt down, just before the soldiers were ordered to fire, the accused heard the boy's voice: 'mommy,' he whispered, 'mommy.' that day, the defendant heard people praying for their lives, grown men crying. he heard them promising the soldiers money, cars, even houses. but that boy called out to his mother, like children do when they've had a bad dream. "if we are to have any chance of moving forward after the balkan wars, we must first ensure that all those who have committed crimes are brought to justice, not only those who are indicted in the hague, but also those who are free and who should be brought to justice as soon as possible in national courts. we owe it to those who were killed, and to those who survived.
i would like to thank the presidency for its reply and, above all, for its commitment to raise this specific issue of this turkish teachers' organisation in direct bilateral contacts with turkey. this very significant decision constitutes a violation of fundamental trade union rights and the right to organise. it is also a violation of freedom of expression in turkey and the rights of minorities in a single decision. i therefore believe that this is a very important case for the democratic credibility of turkey. i would also like to put the following question to the presidency: can negotiations on eu membership be opened with turkey as long as this type of decision is being taken in the country?
i also welcome the council's answer to this question, but i would like to have a clarification. does the council consider that the turkish constitution as interpreted by the supreme court is compatible with the charter of fundamental rights of the european union? i am thinking in particular of article ii-72 on freedom of assembly and association, which places particular emphasis on the freedom of trade union involvement, and articles ii-81 and ii-82 of the same charter on non-discrimination and respect for linguistic diversity.
the rapporteur. i am pleased to see that the commission has taken this step. we all know the serious background to the proposed directive on waste from the extractive industries. it is still only a few years since we saw gigantic accidents of collapsing mine dams in spain and romania. in the case of romania, the accident resulted in the poisoning of important river systems with cyanide. these accidents illustrate the enormous environmental risks and international repercussions of improper management of mining waste. to this must be added a series of minor accidents and a kind of ongoing environmental poisoning from old historical waste around our nature that has not been properly managed, and from which, among other things, heavy metals are released into the water systems. the european union today has no good rules to deal with these environmental problems. the waste regulations are not adapted to this type of waste. the proposed directive can remedy this. the cyanide method used in romania is prohibited by the proposed directive. we will make a very strict demand on the safety and sustainability of dams. we will require mining companies to be serious, to restore nature and to be able to guarantee economically that nature will be restored after mining. many of the amendments adopted by parliament at first reading have been taken up by the council of ministers in the common position, which is of course excellent. other important proposals have been rejected. it is therefore important that we adopt the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, which now mean that we are trying to restore what was adopted at first reading. i would like to give you some examples of such changes. we want not only an inventory of the old mine waste, but we also want something to be done about it, which in parliament's proposal means obligations. we also believe that the environmental problems arising from cavities after mining should be covered by the directive. the council's common position excludes large waste groups from essential parts of the directive, such as the financial guarantee. to avoid this, we must adopt amendment no 13. it is important to remember that even waste that is not chemically hazardous can cause very serious environmental problems. this also applies to inert waste. we also propose that the exceptions be tightened up. no long-term derogations can be granted, since waste can be put aside and a proper waste facility must be built. such long periods of derogation are now included in the council's position. these are some examples of amendments where we in parliament want a directive which is much more far-reaching, effective and progressive than the council's common position. voting against these amendments would mean lowering environmental ambitions. a strict and good directive in this area will not only benefit the environment, but it will also benefit the best, the most serious and the most modern and environmentally conscious mining companies. it will accelerate the improvement of the industry. at the same time, it will disadvantage those who do not take their environmental responsibility, which is good. it will benefit environmental engineering and research. it can make the eu a world leader in the field of mining environmental technology, which is also a positive thing and can mean that we can help other regions of the world. with the proposals put forward by the environment committee in my report, we have the opportunity to prevent future serious accidents, such as those in spain and romania. we can make sure we never see another accident like this. we have the ability to reduce the release of toxins into our water systems. we also have the opportunity to consistently address past environmental sins and improve water quality. let us seize these opportunities! last but not least, i'd like to thank my colleagues for a great collaboration. a number of colleagues from various political groups have tabled amendments which have improved this report. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and i would like to thank the commission for the very good cooperation so far.
for the ind/dem group. president. - the debate is closed. like the other eu institutions, this chamber is always ready to go into areas where the eu is not supposed to be involved. the eu is depriving the citizens of europe of their national self-determination in one area after another. the various debates this evening are revealing: no one in this house seems to be asking whether what we are discussing is a task for the eu. the eu's political legitimacy is therefore steadily declining. this is seen in opinion polls but rarely in democratic elections. the established party structure does not allow the citizen to express his opposition to the transfer of power to the eu. it is therefore only in referendums that this popular opposition finds expression in the democratic process. we have seen this in denmark, ireland and sweden, and more recently in france and the netherlands. i have a political mandate from my constituents to oppose this concentration of power in the eu, but not in all areas. there are cases where i and my colleagues welcome joint action at eu level. the galileo project is one such area. the question is to build a european infrastructure in a very important high-technology area. the individual countries cannot cope with this task. with galileo we are making europe independent of an american system which, in times of unrest, could be disrupted and shut down unilaterally by the united states for military reasons. i therefore welcome the galileo project and recommend that the house support the proposal for the implementation of the installation and operation phases. for once, the eu is on the right track.
for the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i should also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for a report which is always very good. we have welcomed this proposal for progress and the merger of the four previous programmes. this could mean better coordination, less overlap and more efficient use of costs. a merger is therefore a good thing. the programme has a role to play in the lisbon strategy, which is not only about competitiveness but also about social europe and closing the gaps. unemployment is too high today. the social security systems and social integration are not working 100% satisfactorily. there are gaps in gender equality and discrimination still exists. that's why this program is so important. i would like to comment on some aspects which the rapporteur has also raised. firstly, the exchange of experience and the transnational exchange of experience. it is extremely important to foster the innovative nature. at national level, we are pursuing a labour market policy. these programmes should be innovative, innovative and spread across national borders, so that everyone can benefit from what is being done through the various projects. secondly, gender equality should not be confined to one section but should permeate all parts of the programmes and of progress. i would also like to point out the accessibility aspects. disabled people are now more excluded from the labour market. they have a harder time integrating into society. it is therefore important that accessibility aspects are integrated and taken into account in a broad sense in all parts of the programme, so that disabled people can participate in the work. the same applies to the social integration of people from other parts of the world who are excluded from the labour market. i have experience of sweden and of the work there on the national programme. i would like to emphasize what the rapporteur also mentioned, namely that the social partners and non-governmental organizations must be involved in all the work, both in the design, implementation and monitoring of the programmes. they are a major resource in the work to anchor these programmes at national and regional level. the economic aspects have already been touched upon. the commission proposal is far too old-fashioned and underfunded. social europe is an area on which we must concentrate when we create the long-term budget. the proposal from the committee responsible, which is being tabled here in parliament and which calls for more resources, is therefore preferable. the british presidency has now taken up the subject of social europe. in this context, the need for a progress programme with adequate resources should also be assessed.
in writing. i believe that it is of the utmost importance that the eu's agricultural policy, including the organisation of the raw tobacco market, be reformed. the current systems cost a lot of money and, in addition, the high level of agricultural subsidies today means that eu products are dumped on the world market, with serious consequences for developing countries. today the european parliament voted on an amendment to the regulation on the common organisation of the market in raw tobacco. i voted in favour of the amendment because it means that the reform of the raw tobacco market which has been started can continue. i do not think that the eu should support tobacco farming. i welcome the continuation of the reforms that have been agreed, which means that half of the total aid to the tobacco sector (eur 484 million) from 2010 will be earmarked for restructuring programmes in tobacco-producing regions, in the context of rural development.
in writing. we are voting against this report because we believe that there should be no common organization of the market in raw tobacco at all. we believe that a decision should be taken within the union as soon as possible that tobacco producers should operate on a free market and adapt to it as soon as possible. it is also incredibly inconsistent that the eu is simultaneously subsidising tobacco growing and promoting health campaigns and measures. how long will this absurdity continue?
in writing. i believe that it is of the utmost importance that the eu's agricultural policy, including the organisation of the raw tobacco market, be reformed. the current systems cost a lot of money and, in addition, the high level of agricultural subsidies today means that eu products are dumped on the world market, with serious consequences for developing countries. today the european parliament voted on an amendment to the regulation on the common organisation of the market in raw tobacco. i voted in favour of the amendment because it means that the reform of the raw tobacco market which has been started can continue. i do not think that the eu should support tobacco farming. i welcome the continuation of the reforms that have been agreed, which means that from 2010 onwards half of the total aid to the tobacco sector (eur 484 million) will be allocated to restructuring programmes in tobacco-producing regions, in the context of rural development.
in writing. we have voted against this report. we are strongly critical of the eu's common fisheries policy. however, it is important to be able to establish that eu vessels are complying with the rules in place and that this is done in a reliable manner. we therefore support the principle of electronic registration and reporting of fishing activities. however, we do not believe that the costs of computerizing ships should be borne by the eu. the financing is left to the discretion of the member states. the natural solution is to put the entire cost on the fishing industry.
in writing. we have chosen to support this report because the management of waste from the mining industry is partly a transnational environmental issue. however, we are critical of the use of structural fund funds for the inventory of closed waste facilities. there is normally no reason for taxpayers in other countries to pay for such measures. the structural funds should be used only in the case of poor member states with unusually high inventory needs. we have therefore voted against amendment no 8. the principle should be that the undertakings concerned should bear the costs incurred in implementing the proposed legislation.
in writing. the report on the eu programme for employment and social solidarity (progress) is indeed arbitrary, but it is based on the mistaken notion that the commission can and should develop overall strategies and proposals on how to solve these issues for 25 very different countries. instead of the eu regulating from above, member states should learn from each other through healthy institutional competition. no decision has been taken on the financial framework for the programme, as the eu's long-term budget has been rejected by the european council. the fact that we are still trying to implement the progress programme, which will cost more than a billion euros from 2007 to 2013, shows that we are not respecting the council's decision.
in writing. we voted in favour of the question of the future of the textile and clothing industry after 2005. we do not fully share the proposal, especially paragraph 11, which seeks an agreement covering more textile categories than those contained in the eu-china agreement of june. we believe that the quota system should be abolished in the long term and that the eu should open up trade with the rest of the world.
in writing. we moderates voted against the above report today. the abolition of quotas for trade in textiles and the entry of china into the wto have made the issue of high priority. we are opposed to both the protectionist measures introduced in the spring and those proposed in this report. the price of the kind of protectionism advocated in the report is paid by consumers through higher prices, by other sectors through more expensive inputs, and by entire regions through lost structural change and thus lost competitiveness. the consequences of this have become clear to more and more europeans over the summer. in northern europe, the textile trade was already liberalised in the 1970s and 1980s, which brought major benefits to several countries in southern europe. this was a painful process for many regions in northern europe but it has brought new competitiveness. it is regrettable that the countries which were the big winners of this deregulation are not themselves prepared to go through the same process. we have known for ten years that in 2005 we would have a new world trade regime for textiles, without quotas. the textile industry has had ample opportunity to prepare. a few more years of trade barriers will not help the european textile industry.
in writing. the saïfi report is aimed at countering the increase in imports of textiles from china into europe. this has increased significantly since the abolition of quotas on 1 january 2005 when the world trade agreement on textiles expired. eu leaders should have anticipated the situation and adapted in time, but protectionist flaws have long clouded the eu's trade policy vision. increased protectionism cannot in the long run protect european industry and jobs from increasingly fierce international competition. the best way to meet this competition is to invest in education, research and innovation and to make it easier for companies to act on the global market. however, after the incompetent management of textile quotas so far, there may be a need to draw up a clear plan for the transition to free trade in textile products in order to alleviate the pressure on the employees of the textile industry in southern europe. the junilist supports in general terms the further liberalisation of world trade and cannot therefore vote for the report as a whole. we cannot support the proposal for a 'ethics tax' on international companies either, because we are opposed to giving the eu the right to tax.
in writing. we voted in favour of the report on the application of articles 4 and 5 of the 'television without frontiers' directive. it is important that we show our support for the possibilities for the public service to develop. public services are of great importance for democracy and diversity and it is important that the eu safeguards this. we are also concerned about the increasing concentration of media in the eu. in principle, however, we are against rules which determine the proportion of broadcasting time to be made up of european productions.
in writing. we consider that the broadcasting quotas for european productions and programmes by independent broadcasters is something very questionable. in particular, these quotas should not be decided at union level. we want to promote products that highlight cultural distinctiveness, but we doubt that broadcasting quotas are an appropriate means to this end. we have voted against this report for the reasons stated above.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i was a member of the temporary committee on political challenges and budgetary means and i argued that we should stick to 1% of gdp. in view of this, i do not think we should decide to use the surplus from the 2004 budget for the expenditure in the 2005 budget. i believe that the structural funds, which are already growing in size through this expenditure, do not need to be increased. it is already more than eight billion. i therefore do not agree with my complaint that no money is being spent. there are of course reasons why money is not being spent, and so there is no harm in examining matters very carefully when it comes to new expenditure. i am not prepared to return these surpluses to the member states, but i believe that these funds should be used for a margin of flexibility which, in my view, is too small. otherwise we will often find ourselves in situations where we have to admit that we are not able to take the necessary action. we can't predict the future. i therefore believe that these funds should be used to expand the flexibility margin and not to build up the structural funds.
the committee on development and cooperation has been asked to submit an opinion. president. - the debate is closed. this question has been discussed for quite some time. it is, of course, good that we have now reached a decision and an agreement. at the same time, on behalf of the committee on development, i am disappointed with the result. we have consistently opposed the fact that funds already earmarked for genuine development purposes in the asian budget are now partly reprogrammed for this disaster. we have also always maintained that we should protect the emergency reserve as much as possible and use the flexibility instrument instead. we now have only 53 million euro left in the emergency reserve, with just over four months left in the year. what if there's another big disaster in the world? our arguments have not been successful. that doesn't mean our arguments lack relevance or weight, quite the opposite. we will support this proposal but will continue to work towards providing new resources and the flexibility instrument for major disaster response such as this. we also hope to safeguard the emergency reserve as much as possible so that we can respond in the event of major emergencies. finally, i hope and believe that the funds now allocated for reconstruction and rehabilitation are being used in the wisest possible way and that, above all, as much as possible, disaster preparedness aspects are being incorporated into this, so that we do not reinforce a vulnerability which already exists in the people living in this region.
vice-president of the commission. madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission will convey the facts on eu issues and give citizens the opportunity to make their own judgments and choices not spread political propaganda. informing citizens is part of our public service mission. it's about transparency and accountability. this is an area where the commission has had a long and fruitful cooperation with the european parliament. on 20 july, the commission adopted an action plan for better communication. it is intended to show in a clear and pragmatic way how we can improve the dialogue with citizens throughout the eu. it is also a testament to our commitment to more dialogue, consultation and debate on the role of the union. our actions are based on three principles: listening better, describing how eu policies affect the daily lives of citizens and making the message relevant at local level. the first principle, in particular, of listening, is an expression of our readiness and willingness to pursue further democratization. it is about more actively asking for citizens' views and taking them into account from the outset when new policies and legislation are being drawn up. nils lundgren asks me whether i think the eu institutions have already been given too much power at the expense of the member states, and would be given even more under the proposal for a constitution for europe. my answer is no! first, any decision to confer powers on the eu institutions is an independent decision of the member states. moreover, the aim is not to weaken the role of national governments but to increase their ability to achieve objectives of common interest.
it sounds very nice when commissioner wallström says that we should listen, and when she emphasizes that democracy is about will and that the opinions of the people are conveyed to those who have the power to govern. but the whole debate we are hearing in this house, not just today but also in the future, shows that the opposite is true. we have to remember what happened. we have put forward a proposal for the creation of a constitution for europe. this has been the subject of two referendums in the constituent countries where the people said no. it is not a problem that can be solved by more propaganda offices, more money for information, etc., is it? should we not respect this as a decision from below, i.e. that the constitution is ignored?
i welcome the initiative on the plan for debate, dialogue and democracy. it is obvious that the various institutions must provide information on their activities. it is clear that we politicians must go home and inform about what is happening here in parliament and have a dialogue about the decisions we take. in addition to the local perspective, which i think is very important, i would like to mention one aspect which i have not heard mentioned here today, namely that the policy at eu level must be integrated not only into national policy but also into local and regional policy. environmental and labour market issues, for example, are of course topical at all levels. are you working to integrate policies at different levels so that citizens can recognise more and see the added value of the european dimension?
i would like to thank commissioner frattini for this welcome decision. i come from sweden, which is one of the countries that has been very active in this area. in the general debate on refugees that we have had so far, we have not talked about this as an important solution. i therefore look forward to reading the proposals that will come and thank you again for your reply.
mr president, i would like to thank you. children should have safe medicines tailored to their needs. it is a self-evident legal requirement. however, with a six-month extension of the patent, we are paying an unnecessarily high price for the pharmaceutical companies to meet the obvious demands. the pharmaceutical companies already have years of protection and 100 billion euros in their cash registers for acquisitions. they can withstand a one percent increase in costs much better than already impoverished public budgets. we're not going to transfer any more money to the companies. and then it will end up that we finally have safe medicines for both children and adults, but no one can afford to buy them. we in the green group have tabled a compromise amendment for a maximum of four months with the additional restrictions described by mrs breyer. if that is not acceptable, parliament is showing that it listens more to the lobbyists of the pharmaceutical companies than to the needs of children.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a perfectly safe society is not a police state. it's a suspicious and insecure society that no one wants to live in. the continuing increase in police powers will never stop all terror and organized crime but will only erode democracy. the best weapon is reducing recruitment through tolerance, social cohesion, reducing poverty and allowing legal immigration. when people do not feel oppressed or excluded, they are also less likely to be recruited into crime syndicates or terrorist groups. biometric passports are not as effective as you, charles clarke, claim. have you read the audit report from the us court of auditors? not all suspects are identified. innocent miners are at risk of being stopped because of bad fingerprints. the cost is enormous. for the eu alone, biometric passports would cost around eur 10 billion. it's not worth the money.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr commissioner! the terrorist attacks in london this summer have once again demonstrated the vulnerability of our open democracies. once again, innocent people are being killed on their way to work. how do we protect ourselves when our own citizens, respected neighbors and beloved family men are suddenly turned into ruthless killing machines? more than ever, cooperation is needed to help prevent, detect, detect and arrest those planning terrorist acts or other cross-border crime. the criminals are far ahead of both the police and politicians in terms of cross-border cooperation. we need to be much better at coping with the same degree of cooperation. we talk a lot, but as my colleagues have already pointed out, very little has happened. our counter-terrorism coordinator gijs de vries has repeatedly pointed out the problem that too much is said and too little is done. in swedish, you say "lots of talk, but a little hockey". the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. europol and eurojust must be given much more resources and perhaps develop into a kind of european fbi that can coordinate, lead reconnaissance operations, preliminary investigations and perhaps even raids. information and intelligence from the various member states could be coordinated. the fight against crime is a vital balance at all times between the need for security and tough measures and the integrity of the individual. the developments of recent years have forced all of us to make some compromises on our privacy. for example, cameras in public places are increasingly accepted. they also played a vital role in the work of the london police in identifying the terrorist bombings. every action must be carefully weighed at all times. the argument for building large systems to store data traffic, phone calls, e-mails and text messages has so far not convinced me. it's a very large invasion of privacy with many risks of abuse. after all, most of us are not criminals.
in writing. past experience shows that the eu is not capable of managing disaster aid effectively. instead, each member state should set up, for example, a solidarity fund to help countries affected by natural disasters. coordination should be adapted to the specific circumstances of each disaster and take into account the priorities of the affected countries. the junilista therefore chooses to vote against the reports, despite the fact that the objectives in these cases are both justified and heartwarming.
in writing. the report concerns protection at workplaces against exposure to optical radiation. we support minimum health and safety protection at work, but we believe that this can be dealt with by the member states themselves. we support the amendments which reduce bureaucracy for companies.
in writing. we have voted against the de sarnez report today because we believe that it conflicts with the swedish legislation on freedom of the press and expression and its clear rules on the independence of the media. the report contains proposals on how best to protect minors from harmful and inappropriate content on the internet, which we do not object to but consider to be an urgent matter. however, the report also recommends that member states introduce the right of reply in all audiovisual and online information services and introduce rules on media ownership. for these reasons, we have voted against the report as a whole.
in writing. ensuring that minors do not have access to programmes or services for adults in audiovisual services is of course a very important issue. but we believe that the development of legislative measures at eu level to protect the physical, mental and moral development of minors in connection with these services is the wrong way to go. there will always be web hosts around the world outside the eu. as noted, much of this is based on good parental controls and there is now the possibility for parents to install filters on their computers. there are positive aspects to the draft report, but it goes too far. this includes the proposal to set up a secondary-level domain name such as .kid. we believe that it is up to the democratic institutions in each member state to solve these daunting problems. the eu should provide a framework of common standards in this area to which the member states can subscribe, analogous to the schengen agreement. we have voted definitively against all amendments which refer to the treaty establishing a constitution for europe. this treaty has fallen.
in writing. this report goes against a very important principle of european cooperation, namely the principle of the country of origin. the commission is proposing the creation of an eu paediatric authority to centrally assess, approve and monitor paediatric medicines and stimulate production. but there is no good reason to centralize this activity in a new eu authority. the report is also based on the notion that the pharmaceutical industry does not consider it profitable to develop specific medicines for children. this is hardly convincing. where there's demand, there's supply. if there is one thing that companies in a market economy are good at, it is identifying niches and developing products for them. if it is true that there is a great need for specific paediatric medicines, the solution should be sought on the demand side through the authorities of the individual countries. the whole report is steeped in a desire to extend the eu's influence and build up new bureaucracies. we have therefore voted against the report.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. ever since i was a kid, the middle east has dominated the news. sadly, it has been mostly about misery, violence, war, oppression, and stock conservative rulers. nowhere in the world is the concentration of untouchability as high as in the middle east. half a billion people live there in dictatorships with the only exception being the democracy of israel. this is of course a problem for the people who live there. they have the right to democracy and human rights just like us. it's also a global problem. if you see no future, frustration, fanaticism and fundamentalism will flourish. there are signs, of course, that the situation is changing. an example of this is the presidential election in egypt today. it's a step forward even though mubarak will of course win. at least there were more candidates. the developments in lebanon, with the expulsion of the syrian occupying forces, are also very positive. the decision to allow women in kuwait to vote next year is also an important step forward. as has already been mentioned here, the evacuation of gaza, which went so smoothly after all, is a very important step for the continuation of the peace process and the establishment of two states. the forthcoming palestinian elections will be an important test of the progress of the reforms in the palestinian government and how the process can proceed. in iraq there is a government, there is a draft constitution, there are strong forces who want democracy and stability, but of course the situation is extremely painful with the daily violence in which the people are forced to live. however, there are still a great many problems in the middle east. the presidency mentioned iran and the mullahs in iran who have been playing games with the world community for several months now with their nuclear weapons programme. this is a matter for the united nations to deal with. we cannot continue to "pretend to negotiate" with iran in this way. the oppression of its own people continues on an unabated scale, which is completely unacceptable. the oppression of the people of the region is unacceptable. the eu should therefore join the united states, international organisations, foundations, the opposition in these countries and others in taking a joint initiative for an international plan for peace and democracy in the middle east as a whole. the resources of the barcelona process should be used much more focused on democracy itself. nothing would be better for peace, stability and the fight against terrorism throughout the world than a victory for democracy in the middle east. in this area we have a great responsibility.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is not the small democracy of israel that is the great threat to peace in the middle east, but the great dictatorial regimes. we are witnessing today a hopeful development in the form of a withdrawal from gaza and small signs of democracy in the arab world. this makes the requirements of european middle east policy much clearer. iran is a country whose stated political objective is to destroy one of the member states of the united nations, israel. iran is breaking the non-proliferation treaty and developing intermediate-range missiles with the aim of reaching targets in the countries we are talking about. the country expresses the same anti-semitism that too many regimes and groups in this part of the world express. it cannot be acceptable to provide support for terrorism as iran does. if the european union is to be a force in the peace process, it must now support the forces of democracy and peace that are at work. the eu must react against those who do not accept international agreements and who deliberately choose the path of violence. we must create a framework and a support for democratic development throughout the middle east. there is no better basis for peaceful and stable development in this part of the world than a breakthrough for democracy. we see the many different signs of democratic development. the eu must then vigorously support those who keep the lamp of democracy and freedom burning. we must also ensure that the support we give to the palestinian authority and to other countries is accompanied by clear demands for democratic development. we have the opportunity to play a role in peace, but then we must also show that we can strengthen democracy.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking you for the opportunity to make this important report on gender discrimination in health care. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have shown great interest and commitment and have made valuable contributions to the report. the sex we happen to be born into is as important a factor in health as social, economic, and ethnic background. the un conferences in cairo in 1994 and beijing in 1995 put gender gaps in health care on the agenda. unfortunately, little action has been taken since then, either in the member states or at eu level. women's health is still often seen as synonymous with sexual and reproductive health. of course, women's health is more complex than that. i would like to mention a few examples of gender discrimination. women still have to wait longer than men in the ambulance for a heart attack. still, the mortality rate is higher among women than men for the same type of heart disease. still, more men than women with visual impairments are given the opportunity to undergo cataract surgery. violence against women, a major public health problem, is still a phenomenon almost invisible in medical education and practice. men continue to be the norm in the research and development of new medicines. this report focuses in particular on two different areas. the first area is to propose measures to prevent gender discrimination between men and women suffering from the same or similar diseases. the second focus area is women's health from the perspective of so-called women's diseases, i.e. diseases that almost exclusively affect women, such as breast cancer, osteoporosis, eating disorders in young girls and violence against women in all its various forms physical and psychological abuse, genital mutilation, sex trafficking, prostitution, etc. gender discrimination becomes very clear when one looks at the few research reports that exist. for example, an analysis of a skin clinic in sweden shows that men and women are treated very differently: the men get the more expensive light treatment while the women are sent home with a prescription for skin ointment. the cost conclusion is that if women were treated equally to men, the resources spent on women would increase by 61 percent. on the other hand, if women's treatment intensity were the norm, the cost of treatment would be reduced by 33 percent. i can also mention that all the doctors who differentiated between women and men when prescribing in the example i mention were women. it shows that gender differences permeate the thinking of both men and women. to combat gender discrimination, researchers and others need access to gender-disaggregated statistics in healthcare. without data and without knowledge, we cannot prove what gender discrimination really is. without such knowledge, we cannot solve the problems either. it is high time that action was taken to ensure that we can speak of fair and equal care. gender differences in health care are just as important a determining factor as ethnic background, social and economic factors. we must take this into account in future work to ensure fair and equal treatment. i would also like to stress that access to sexual and reproductive health counselling and family planning are important instruments for women's health, as well as for women's opportunities to participate on equal terms in society and to combat poverty and the ongoing feminization of poverty.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. although i am, as some - if not many - call the "weaker sex" and hundreds of miles away from my children tonight, i would like to join in this important debate. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, my swedish colleague eva-britt svensson, for bringing up many important issues which are worth highlighting in this context. i am glad that the pse group has supported my amendments on women and smoking, which are now in paragraph 34, and i hope, of course, that i will have support for them tomorrow. sweden became the first country in the world where the proportion of women smokers exceeded that of men, something of which i am not particularly proud. women are more vulnerable to the damage caused by smoking than men. one explanation is that women generally have smaller body sizes, smaller hearts, and narrower coronary vessels than men. studies also show that it is mainly women with low education in low-paid occupations, such as health and care, who smoke the most. today, a major new study by the european society of cardiology (esc) was presented, which shows that women with symptoms of cardiovascular disease generally receive poorer care than men. this is despite the fact that women's chances of surviving a heart attack are lower than men's. discrimination of any kind, in this case gender discrimination in the health care system, is an international issue. that is why we in the eu should take a clear line and also take advantage of each other's experience.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. unfortunately, there is a constant drive to enter virtually all areas. we shall be voting on many such rejection proposals later today. as regards the northern dimension, i think it is therefore very important that we concentrate on results-oriented activities and not on everything between heaven and earth that is north of the 15th parallel. so what is important in the northern dimension for the next ten, fifteen years? i agree with almost all the speakers before me that the answer is the baltic sea. i would also add that the nuclear power stations outside st petersburg are among the most pressing issues of the day. in both cases, it should be noted that russia is absolutely central. it is therefore important to nurture and develop our relations with russia in both these areas. the baltic sea is a completely unique inland sea. there is no analogy with the mediterranean or any other sea in the world. the baltic sea is brackish water, which means that flora and fauna that are adapted to salt water or fresh water are constantly in danger. the salt content rises or falls depending on how the water flows through the sound. this makes the baltic sea extremely sensitive, as several speakers have pointed out, because it is a shallow sea. the baltic sea cannot tolerate pollution, but around the baltic sea there is now intensive economic activity and intensive agriculture with a lot of emissions. this means that we should work on things like saving flora and fauna, clean up emissions, controlling shipping and shutting down the nuclear power stations at st petersburg.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the resounding 'no' of the french and dutch on the eu constitution made it clear that the broad layers of citizens we represent want a narrower rather than a wider eu cooperation. the report proposes, inter alia, the creation of an independent directorate-general for tourism within the commission. this means more power for the eu, which junilista is against. it is true that a well-organized tourism sector has a good potential to contribute to the betterment of people in many developing countries. the eu should not, however, pursue a common tourism policy, as the report suggests. we believe that the eu should only deal with genuinely crossborder issues, where the eu brings a unique added value to existing international organisations. the eu should not therefore be involved in development policy and tourism policy. paragraph 10 requires developing countries to introduce a non-restrictive visa policy. this is a completely unreasonable proposal. the developing countries must of course decide for themselves what visa policy they wish to pursue. otherwise, developing countries should also be able to demand that the eu introduce a non-restrictive visa policy. paragraph 24 calls for the fight against crime in developing countries to be conducted in a way that does not damage the reputation of these countries as tourist destinations. should the eu dictate to other countries how to fight crime? paragraph 25 requires that tourism be promoted, protected and safeguarded through initiatives aimed at combating crime against tourism, including the establishment of specialised police units. i repeat: this is not the eu's job. we are critical of the fact that paragraph 30 refers to the eu constitution which has already been rejected by the french and dutch people. we are in favour of a european union with limited influence and will therefore vote against this report.
in writing. we swedish social democrats voted for the resolution on natural disasters because we can support the general line. we share the view that the disasters are largely due to climate change, which brings extreme weather conditions. to address climate change, global work on the kyoto protocol must continue and be intensified. we also believe that the eu member states can be helped collectively to cope with the acute crises that arise in the wake of natural disasters. however, we think that some of the proposals in the resolution are too detailed and too far-reaching. we are not in favour of agricultural aid being used to build fire-damaged roads and we do not want an eu-funded agricultural insurance system.
in writing. we welcome international solidarity when a country is hit by natural disasters or other events with devastating consequences. however, we do not believe that the eu should use these types of events to increase its influence in different policy areas. the commission shall not carry out detailed analyses of the causes of forest fires. the eu will not develop a common policy on fighting forest fires. no eu bodies responsible for monitoring various climate factors will be established. it is regrettable that the european parliament is trying to take every opportunity to advance the eu's positions.
in writing. tourism is a very important industry for a number of eu countries, but it is not part of the community's policy area. the report nevertheless calls on the commission to take a number of measures in the field of tourism. the report also proposes to create a specific heading for tourism-related measures in the eu budget. we believe that tourism is an example of something that the member states should manage themselves and not an area in which the eu should intervene. that is why we have voted against the report.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet. as it is not a community area, we also oppose the various steps and tendencies in the report to go in that direction, and therefore we see no reason for the commission to draw up a tourism package which would include a review of existing directives on consumer rights in tourism. these actions should be developed in the member states with stakeholders.
in writing. we shall vote against this report. this is not a matter for the eu to deal with. the report states in point e that tourism is not a community policy area today but, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, falls within the competence of the member states. that is a perfectly correct assessment. nevertheless, the report contains a series of proposals for a tourism policy at eu level: - tourism services are classified at eu level; - a specific training network for tourism-related competence bodies is set up; - bodies representing tourists as consumers are set up; - a contact group is set up with the participation of the member states and tourism companies; - a network is set up for the exchange of good practice between organisations involved in risky sports and leisure activities. we oppose all such proposals. despite the failure of the draft eu constitution, it is cited as the basis for the eu's position on tourism. it is proposed that a specific heading for tourism be created in the eu budget. the june summit made it clear that the member states are not willing to pay for all the new policies. the report's rationale, that tourism contributes to growth and employment and is therefore central to the lisbon process, can be applied to virtually all areas. we believe that the principle of subsidiarity is superior to such thinking.
in writing. the moderates have voted against the own-initiative report on gender discrimination in the health care system. gender equality, health and social care, like many other issues where there are different solutions and traditions in the different member states, should be dealt with at national level. the eu should only deal with matters where individual member states cannot do better on their own. the report above addresses many important aspects of women's health and access to care. unlike the rapporteur, eva-britt svensson, we believe that many of these aspects can best be addressed by the individual member state, the individual hospital or the individual. one way of developing and improving health care, without, for example, the eu interfering in national health strategies or the commission being required to investigate certain trends in health care, is through best practice and the exchange of information between member states, hospitals, research institutes and other interested parties, which we warmly welcome.
in writing. the own-initiative report on gender discrimination in healthcare systems addresses many pressing issues concerning women's health. not least because the physiognomy of the male is the starting point of modern medicine, even though there are obviously significant biological differences between the sexes. this is an abuse which my party, the liberal people's party, has denounced on several occasions. despite the report's good intentions to promote women's health in the union, i am voting against it. i choose to do so because i believe that the report is in too many respects contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. many of the proposals presented infringe the sovereignty of the member states and also infringe the right of individuals to make their own decisions affecting their own lives. it is not the job of the european parliament to decide whether women should have the right to a caesarean section or whether healthcare workers should have shorter working hours and higher salaries. at the same time, the report is too broad in its wording in other areas, and i am referring in particular to the sections on ovarian overstimulation and the removal of eggs.
in writing. the european schools system is beginning to take on a life of its own with the debate that 'the european school system promotes the idea of european citizenship' (quoted in paragraph c of the report). we can understand the need for european schools to provide education for the children of eu officials in their mother tongue. but the system has become strange when, for example, only 1.6% of the pupils at the european school in culham are children of staff of the eu institutions and bodies. with the enlargement of the eu, the number of official languages has increased to such an extent that the whole situation of the european schools has to be reviewed. the deployment of decentralised eu bodies would now also mean that european schools would have to be set up in all the member states. we believe that the education of the children of eu officials must be solved more flexibly. the eu institutions and bodies are simply allowed to pay the tuition fees (up to a certain level) for the children of their staff as employers. if parents then choose to place their children in a state, municipal or private free school, they can solve it locally. as a rule, there is a choice between a local or an international school in the places where the eu institutions and bodies are located. the european schools system seems to have outlived itself. we have therefore voted against this report.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank john bowis for a very good job, particularly for going beyond the well-known diseases such as aids, malaria and tuberculosis to tackle sleeping sickness, leishmaniasis and chagas disease. they're forgotten diseases here in the west, but they're making a brutal comeback in the south with millions of victims every year. the tsunami brought the suffering of the people to light, and aid flowed in. if we can bring these diseases to the forefront and mobilize the same resources, we can reduce the suffering of millions of people. yesterday we voted on the need for paediatric medicine, and unfortunately parliament gave extra patent extensions worth many billions to the companies as compensation. we must then be able to reasonably find the almost three billion euros needed to find treatments for these diseases affecting children and adults in the developing world. tb and aids are here in the western world, and so are treatments. however, they mainly affect adults, and we have no treatments adapted to children. public funds must be invested in this area. the children of the developing world have no means of financing their own medical needs. for example, the money could come from a 1% profit tax on pharmaceutical companies that are paid when they find a cure. there are many other solutions. it is our collective responsibility to create resources immediately to combat these diseases. the progress of a civilization can be judged by how it treats its most vulnerable members. the most vulnerable group on earth are these poor and sick children. if we can't even help them, humanity is gone, and we should move back to the caves.
in writing. the moderate delegation voted today in favour of a report on serious and neglected diseases in the developing countries. we believe that disease and ill health are a dominant problem in these countries, both a cause and a result of underdevelopment. however, we doubt that the eu will comment on the pricing of various products by the pharmaceutical industry. we also hesitate to force the pharmaceutical industry to reinvest part of its profits in r & d for neglected diseases. we would rather encourage the pharmaceutical industry to decide, on ethical and moral grounds, to reinvest part of its profits in research into diseases affecting poor countries. this is in line with taking responsibility for global development. further attention should be paid to african governments that impose a sales or import tax on antiretroviral and other drugs. this results in medicines becoming unaffordable for many poor groups. it must forcefully call on the governments concerned to abolish such taxes.
in writing. the global fight against infectious diseases is an urgent issue that requires a comprehensive international commitment. junilista believes that international cooperation should be carried out within already established organisations with expertise and experience in the field, such as the world health organisation (who). the junilista is in favour of limited eu cooperation. we are critical of the union's pursuit of influence and competence in matters already dealt with by existing international organisations.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the autumn of 1980, when i was 15 years old, i went to poland for the first time in my life. we were a group of swedish youths who were cooperating with the polish independent student movement. it was a youth movement that was, in practice, part of solidarity and the enormous positive mobilization that solidarity meant in polish society at the time. for me, it was a journey of upheaval. the freedoms and rights that were a given to me as a swedish teenager were something that my polish peers had to fight hard for. poland was a society of scarce goods, clear political oppression and a hard life for most poles. at that time, solidarity stood for the hope of a better future with its demands for freedom, democracy and the right to national self-determination. solidarity was a progressive movement, not only with its demands for the democratization of polish society: as a trade union it worked for higher wages, better pension conditions, influence for workers in the workplace, better health care and childcare. it was a truly progressive movement that was suppressed by the military takeover, which was supported by the soviet union. but despite the military rule, it would not be possible to stop the demands and the hopes that solidarity symbolized. in fact, demands for free trade unions and spontaneous workers' organization have on a number of occasions been decisive in the opposition to dictatorship in the countries dominated by the soviet union after the war. solidarity and opposition in poland was a perhaps the most important but one in the series of revolts against oppression. east berlin in 1953, budapest in 1956, pozna in the same year, prague in 1968, where the democratic opposition was violently suppressed. most of the time, workers, with their organization and their demands for justice and democracy, were at the forefront of the protests. today poland is a political democracy among other political democracies. there has been tremendous progress in key areas since the fall of the wall. an important part of the reason for that, perhaps the most decisive, is the work of solidarity against the old regime. this development has led to a better future, not only for poland, but for the whole of europe. at the same time, much remains to be done in terms of the social demands made by solidarity in terms of influence over the working people and a better standard of living. poland is today a society where many people live on the dole and where unemployment is very high. at the same time, trade union organisation in the country is very low and employees are often repressed. to do something about it, we need a strong, well-organized trade union movement.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today we commemorate the 25th anniversary of polish solidarity and discuss its message to europe. we remember the days and months when the polish people had had enough, the days and months when polish workers went on strike in gdansk. the struggle that started so much more than just the struggle for the freedom of poland, it started the struggle for the freedom of all of eastern europe. the first stone of the berlin wall fell not in berlin but in gdansk. but we often forget that the strike and the unity in gdansk were preceded by years of polish revolt against communism. many fought for freedom in different ways and separately, but there was no unified force that united all poles around the same idea. only after a polish pope was installed in the vatican did the poles realize that their spiritual heritage united them and that there were forces that would carry them to independence and self-government, and so it did. i myself lived in communist yugoslavia at the time and remember the images from gdansk vividly. i could not believe that anyone actually believed that communism could be brought down. when the people of serbia protested against milosevic's regime almost two decades later, they had learned some of solidarno's lessons. they had learned that totalitarian regimes are not permanent but can actually fall. they had also learned that any democracy must come from within, and that it is a united people fighting for their freedom that must win. solidarno had already sent the most important message to europe. my colleague sjöstedt from sweden, who belongs to a party whose leader still calls himself a communist, has just given a speech in which he praised solidarno, a movement that fought against communism. this is also the message that solidarno sent to europe. the message that europe will not tolerate communism or any other dictatorship or totalitarian or enslaved system. the future of europe lies in freedom, and we all defend freedom, today in a very special way, by expressing our respect and gratitude to the people of poland and eastern europe for the struggle for a free europe that they fought in the 1980s and 1990s.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the capital subscription directive brings to the fore a recurring conflict of objectives in eu cooperation. a conflict of objectives which we all have reason to analyse and debate in principle before taking a position. on the one hand, there are often good reasons for introducing common rules at eu level in order to ensure the effective functioning of the internal market. different rules between member states in key areas lead to high costs and thus lower prosperity. this also applies to the financial market. on the other hand, there are strong reasons not to impose common rules on the member states which then become part of our acquis communautaire and thus prevent individual countries from taking the lead and developing the regulatory systems. much of the dynamism of our economies rests on the institutional competition that we have between countries in developing effective and growth-enhancing institutions. the terms best practice and benchmarking are often used to reflect insights into this important process. unfortunately, in this house, little or no attention is paid to institutional competition. however, in the case of basel ii, we are talking about a highly global market with an extremely well-informed group of actors who can act on the fly. there is little room for special positions at eu level in this market. as regards basel ii, individual countries should act independently within the framework of this central bank cooperation. there is really no need to involve the eu and this parliament in that process. we're not cut out for it. finally, let me agree with other speakers that it is unfortunate that parliament is trying to use this report in the constant institutional power struggle between the eu institutions. the junilista does not want to contribute to strengthening the power of this parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank alexander radwan and also congratulate him on the work he has done, which is large, complex and important. if there is any area where we see the importance of european cooperation, it is in this area where we are creating a large financial market. i would like to say to my swedish colleague who spoke earlier that without european cooperation we would not be able to have democratic and parliamentary control over the regulatory framework that is being drawn up here. we are now getting stability and efficiency and predictability in the common financial markets. the directive will also introduce more flexibility in risk assessment, which is basically - and it is important to remember - good for consumers and for businesses in europe. the important thing, and as mentioned here earlier, is that it also means a level playing field in the global market, as opposed to the american market. but it is also important that it means a level playing field in another sense, that is, that in the dynamic financial markets we will see the emergence of new financial institutions. just as we have seen a convergence between banks and insurance companies in recent decades, we will see new products and new structures. it is therefore important that this directive does not in practice impede the dynamic development of the market, but rather allows new forms of enterprise to emerge and compete on equal terms. it will be an important task for the commission, as well as for the debate in this parliament, to follow developments in this particular respect. i am grateful that we have been able to get transitional rules which allow the national authorities to reflect this development, but once the directive is in place and its rules apply it will be the task of this parliament and the commission to ensure that there is an openness to change which reflects the volatility of the financial markets. otherwise we will lose our competitiveness in europe. that is why this is an important task.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the comoros is far away and what we do there is done in silence, it doesn't reach the debate here at home. but if the television images from there reached our living rooms, parliament would never have approved this agreement. we buy the fishing rights from the government, but the people we really take the fish from, the fishermen in the villages, they have no influence and they rarely get adequate compensation. neither national parliaments nor the european parliament have any significant influence, but are faced with a fait accompli. it's not until ten months after the deal starts that we get a chance to speak. this parliament has called for amendment many times. it is time to take back democratic control of these agreements, which are more a relic of old-fashioned colonialism than modern trade and democracy. i therefore welcome the proposal for more information. i thank the commission for the increased co-financing from those who use the agreement so that the burden on our taxpayers is reduced, but i regret that the agreement is being extended to several tonnes per year. i believe that the small-scale fishing communities of the partner country must have veto rights over the agreements. my group will vote against this agreement which favours eu fishermen at the expense of poorer colleagues in the south.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eu's fisheries agreements with third countries have been widely criticised by several organisations working on development issues, including swedish sida. the agreements have certainly been reformed, but criticism of the current partnership agreements is highly justified. the rapporteur also stressed the need to ensure that the eu's fisheries policy was consistent with the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. in other words, it is the narrow interests of the eu that must be protected, not the interests of the poor comorian fishermen. the eu is using its power to secure short-term economic interests. the tuna fisheries agreement with the comoros is not very extensive, but the question of fisheries agreements is of fundamental importance. it would be natural for the costs of fisheries agreements to be borne entirely by the parties who choose to use them. why should europe's taxpayers pay for fisheries agreements that benefit the fleets of a few eu countries? the rapporteur believes that ship owners are paying too much for these contracts. the junilists believe that this should not be an eu issue and that the agreements should not be funded by eu funds at all. the british presidency and the commission have put forward the priority of development issues in africa as a policy area. however, the will to seriously reform the eu's counterproductive agricultural, trade and fisheries policies is limited. the ambition seems to be to increase aid without addressing the structural problems that make it difficult for developing countries to escape poverty.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs kreissl-dörfler, for a very good report. it is important that we all work towards the same goal: that the eu in the long term should pursue a policy of asylum and refugees 'equal for everyone everywhere'. safe or very safe country rules create a worrying and unclear legal picture and provide different treatment in different countries for people fleeing. sweden, where i come from, does not apply general rules or the concept of safe countries of origin or safe third countries, but we see all refugees as individuals and give each one an individual assessment. then a member state can assess the individual refugee's history and need to have his or her reasons considered. a country may be safe for a group collectively, but it may be impossible for an individual or a family to return to it, precisely because that person may have been engaged in political union work or belongs to an ngo that is engaged in activities that are not to their liking. i am of course also concerned about the increasingly restrictive approach to the age of consent in both the international and european context. you're not an adult when you're 16, in these cases or any other. i hope that this report will help us to move forward in the process which will eventually lead to a common policy on asylum and refugees in the eu. that is what the citizens of the european union expect us to do, because they want to see the european union as a unit.
in writing. the financial impact of the proposal to increase the fees payable to the european medicines agency (emea) has not yet been determined. in any event, the proposal will have implications for the budget of heading 3 and 2 of the new financial perspective for 2007-13. we are in principle opposed to the emea being strengthened as an authority and given an increased budget. that is why we have voted against this report.
in writing. the eu's fisheries policy should aim to ensure the abundance of fish stocks, quality food products for consumers and good conditions for the european fishing industry. unfortunately, the eu's fisheries policy has become a permanent policy of subsidies for a non-profitable fishing industry which cannot survive on its own without support, without the support policy safeguarding the fish stocks. it prevents structural rationalisation but not exhaustion. at the same time, the icelandic example of developed fisheries ownership shows that there are other methods that both protect fish stocks and help adapt the industry to new conditions. fisheries policy does not have to be aid policy. the eu's fisheries policy should seek new ways of protecting fish stocks from overfishing and restructuring the fishing industry.
in writing. we think that the council's initiative to store traffic data to give law enforcement authorities better tools in the fight against serious crime and terrorism is a good one. the experience of the swedish side shows that in many serious crime investigations traffic data are important. that is why we support the council's proposal in principle. the proposal presented by the commission on 21 september 2005 on the storage of traffic data opens up a debate on law enforcement. the commission's proposal gives the european parliament a say. that is why we have decided to abstain from voting today, pending a new position.
in writing. we believe that the initiative of the swedish government, among others, to preserve data processed and stored in connection with the provision of services such as telephone calls, sms, e-mail, internet, etc. for the purpose of combating terrorism and other cross-border crimes goes far beyond the expected benefits. member states should facilitate the exchange of information among themselves in order to combat these crimes more effectively. however, this does not require harmonisation with uniform rules for the collection of this huge amount of data. the proposal raises serious concerns about the legal certainty of citizens and risks imposing significant costs on service providers. despite its criticism, the report states that harmonisation is necessary in this area - but that legislation must be made on the initiative of the commission and by means of a codecision procedure for parliament instead of the intergovernmental cooperation that is now the case. the junilista does not share this view.
in writing. the junilist believes that member states should be free to decide for themselves what their immigration and asylum policies should be - as long as they are in line with applicable international law. we do not want to contribute to the creation of a fortress europe, nor should it be a matter for the european parliament to determine which laws apply in this area. we cannot therefore support the council's proposal, with or without the amendments proposed in the report, and have therefore abstained, since the directive is part of the creation of a common policy in this area. however, we have voted in favour of many of the committee's amendments to show our support for a more humane refugee policy than that expressed in the council directive and which meets the standards laid down in international conventions.
in writing. the amendments by parliament are moving in the right direction as they do not force countries to refuse to process an application from a person from a 'safe country', which requires that asylum seekers are not treated as criminals and shorter processing times. the european parliament has voted against the green group's proposal to abandon the concept of safe countries altogether and instead follow international mr rules on individual examination. the council will probably not take account of the improvements voted for by parliament, but when we vote on this directive today, we are actually voting on the council's proposals which are contrary to human rights, which is why i am voting against. the environment party is against a harmonised asylum policy because it risks becoming undemocratic and a race to the bottom. in this case, both bad legislation and the threat of parliament going to court over illegal procedures.
in writing. the amendments by parliament are moving in the right direction as they do not force countries to refuse to process an application from a person from a 'safe country', which requires that asylum seekers are not treated as criminals and shorter processing times. the european parliament has voted against the green group's proposal to abandon the concept of safe countries altogether and instead follow international mr rules on individual examination. the council will in all likelihood not take account of the improvements which parliament voted for, but when we vote on this directive today, we are in fact voting on the council's proposals which are contrary to human rights, and that is why i am voting against. the environment party is against a harmonised asylum policy because it risks becoming undemocratic and a race to the bottom. in this case, both bad legislation and the threat of parliament going to court for illegal procedures are happening.
for the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to comment on the guellec report on territorial cohesion and would like to begin by thanking you for the very, very good cooperation we have had during the time that the report has been drawn up. the major difference between now and 15-25 years ago is that the regions are very active in their own development. you no longer wait for someone else to make sure that you can develop your business and society and create a good life for yourself, you want to do it yourself. it is therefore not surprising that territorial cohesion has become an important concept. it sums up the feeling and the will that exists throughout europe, even in the suburbs of the big cities, that everyone is needed on the european continent, that all citizens are important, that all regions have something to contribute. this must be clear to all of us in the union. that is why the concept of territorial cohesion - that we are holding our europe together, that everyone feels involved - is so important. there is a huge amount of knowledge throughout europe, and we must take advantage of it if we are to develop our continent. if we don't, we're making a mistake. europe as a whole is rich in resources, and they are often found in the regions or in the suburbs of large cities. we have a lot of natural resources which are good not only for the regions when they are processed, but for the whole of europe. it's also about energy. it's what gives us export earnings. we also have very extensive natural resources that we can use in tourism, for recreation. we have a lot of people employed here, we can develop this, it is good for all of europe. we also have diversity, we have minorities and we have immigrants from all over the world in europe whose strength and knowledge must also be harnessed. i would therefore like to highlight some points in the report which i consider important. firstly, the lisbon and gothenburg strategies must be inclusive. we must ensure that they cover all regions, otherwise we cannot develop europe as a whole. the second is that we cannot accept sectoral policies which have the opposite effect, i.e. which only strengthen the centre. thirdly, i would say that it is important that the different policy areas in europe are valued, so that we can really achieve territorial cohesion. an example is the transport sector: we must ensure that we have transport routes that enable the whole of europe to develop. i think this is a good report and i really hope that the commission will listen to what parliament has to say.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteurs. the railways are needed in europe. we must offer rail transport as an alternative to road transport for both freight and passengers. it's good for the environment and good for our productivity. but then the goods and people must be able to travel by rail quickly and smoothly. it's not like that today. it is not always easy to make a journey from a to b, and goods are often left at the borders. in the second railway package, we are opening up the market for national and international freight transport. it was a good decision, but its full realization has yet to come. it is still slow and faces a number of problems, according to consensus. but should we then open up the railway markets for passenger transport as jarzembowski proposes when the opening up of the market for freight transport is not yet working? some people are concerned that it will be impossible to make it work together in practice. i come from a country where we have opened up passenger traffic in our own way. it is not pure deregulation, but we have done it in the swedish way, so to speak. and we've certainly seen the opportunities, but we've also seen the difficulties when some lines are profitable and some lines are not. this is a difficulty if you have an ambition to have passenger traffic throughout the country. it is important to open up markets to passengers too, and i am convinced that we will eventually have a national opening up of passenger traffic too. but now i would like to propose that we start with international passenger traffic. the commission has also proposed safeguard clauses for local and regional public transport. the decision to open up national passenger services now would be nothing more than an idealistic position taken by the european parliament, without us knowing the consequences.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are now voting on amendment no 5 and i am in favour of longterm thinking, but there must be a mistake in the swedish version where it says 'financial framework 2007' 2123'. i suspect it will be 2013.
in writing. if a country in europe's neighbourhood meets the eu's political and economic requirements, there should be no obstacles to membership. the eu is not a cultural or religious bloc, but a cooperation in which the member states guarantee democracy, human rights and a functioning market economy. therefore, turkish membership cannot be rejected on religious or geographical grounds. the junilist therefore believes that turkey should be able to become a member of the eu in the long term. but the eu has not been reformed enough to accept turkey as a member. this is particularly true of agricultural policy and the structural funds. turkey has also failed to meet eu policy requirements to a sufficient extent. several human rights requirements are not implemented. the armenian genocide of 1915 has not been recognized, nor has the sovereignty of cyprus. the financial implications of turkey's accession to the eu are still uncertain. finally, the draft constitutional treaty has now fallen and it is therefore completely unknown how the eu will be governed in the future. this is another important reason for postponing the accession negotiations. in view of this, we do not think that accession negotiations should be opened at this stage. that is why we are voting against the resolution as a whole.
in writing. i voted against or abstained on several parts of this report which were related to parliament's competence. there were unnecessary references to the constitution, which is now dead. i believe that a certain degree of freedom to have one's own fiscal policy is important, not least in order to be able to contribute to credit guarantee societies in rural areas which can create cooperation at local level. i abstained on those points where the demands on the working conditions of parliament were perfectly reasonable but an unnecessary reference to the constitution was smuggled in.
in writing. europe needs railways, mainly for environmental reasons but also for freight and passenger transport. this requires the opening up of railway markets between countries, so that trains can cross borders quickly and smoothly. the markets for rail freight are now being opened up under the second railway package, which we think is good. the jarzembowski report now proposes that passenger services, both international and domestic, should also be opened according to a certain timetable. we believe that international passenger traffic can be restored within a few years. but as far as national passenger traffic is concerned, we believe that this must be done over a longer period of time than is proposed. that is why we are not prepared today to vote in favour of mr jarzembowski's proposal for the liberalization of national passenger transport, since we cannot see the consequences of his proposal, for example, for local and regional public transport.
in writing. the junilista group opposes the commission's proposal to create common rules for train drivers and staff. cooperation must be based on trust and intergovernmental agreements. we therefore abstain on all amendments and would have liked to have had the opportunity to vote against the commission's original text.
in writing. there is an intergovernmental organisation for international rail transport (otif) which has already agreed on passenger rights. there is a charter of quality standards for rail passenger transport signed by the european railways. we do not believe that the eu should intervene and regulate this area. if regulation is needed in this area, it will be done through the national authorities of the respective countries. in this context, voting for a regulation on minimum compensation for delayed travellers is a major step forward. this may lead to increased costs for service providers to their passengers, which may further hit the industry hard in a situation where it is pressured by low-cost flights and buses. we therefore believe that the european parliament's report does not propose anything that will benefit travellers in the long term. we therefore vote against parliament's amendments to the commission's proposal. we also want to reject the commission's proposal.
in writing. we do not think that there is a need for an eu framework for compensation in the event of delay in the transport of goods by rail. we therefore support the position of the committee on transport and reject the commission's proposal. the commission's proposal is intended to stimulate railway undertakings to improve the quality of freight transport and thus to increase customer demand. we question whether the proposed regulations are desirable and whether they will have the intended effect.
in writing. we swedish social democrats have decided to abstain on the question of a stronger partnership for the outermost regions. many regions in europe have special needs and difficulties due to long distances from commercial centres, glaciation or difficult terrain and climatic conditions. the islands and island groups in the outermost regions have recognised disadvantages and we support the eu's policy in this area. the partnership with the eu also entails obligations to fish carefully, protect our common environment and use eu support money responsibly. we think that the marques report goes too far in calling for more aid money for agriculture and fisheries. that is why we have decided to abstain.
in writing. the junilist group votes against these reports because they are two new examples of how the european parliament wants to give the eu new areas of competence through own-initiative reports. the commission is also proposing to introduce a territorial dimension, with the aim of clarifying how the member states should manage the relations between the centre and the periphery. marques calls for more support for fisheries, agriculture, banana production and so on to further promote peripheral areas within the union. the report highlights the importance of additional support for the fishing industry, including through efforts to modernise the fishing fleet to increase its profitability. these two reports also lead to new expenditure and sanction areas of aid which should be reduced rather than extended.
mr president, mr president of the council and mr commissioner! as has been said here, the transport sector accounts for the absolute majority of total oil consumption in the eu. we are all extremely dependent on oil to transport goods and to move us, because road transport is so dominant. this is something that we and the industry have known for a long time, but the consciousness has not been acted upon. we must now shift our focus to renewable energy sources and fuels. but there are also positive trends, awareness is growing and the automotive industry in the united states has asked the president to convene a summit after katrina to discuss what can be done to develop alternative fuels. the major automakers also say that the united states must reduce its dependence on gasoline. we must use this awareness to create the conditions in our societies and in our union, and that is what we as politicians can do. in the field of transport, we must research new renewable fuels, such as synthetic diesel. we need to promote alternative fuels, like ethanol. we need to renew the fleet, and here we can do quite a lot, quite quickly. we also need to look at alternative transportation. we have talked about railways today and decided to develop rail transport. this is important, but we must also write more in the white paper review and take more decisions on alternative fuels and the renewal of the car fleet.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the junilista group is a friend of the un and believes that this organisation has a good capacity to contribute to constructive solutions to international conflicts. we do not, however, believe that the eu and its parliament should dictate how the un should work and what the organisation's objectives should be. the debate on the future of the un must be conducted between the un member states and in a wider international context than the european one. we are critical of the proposal that the eu should be represented by a common seat on the un security council. we also do not support parliament's wish to set up joint eu delegations at the various un headquarters. eu member states have different views on the issues dealt with by the un and its security council. sweden, for example, has played an important role in the united nations as a bridge builder between poor and rich countries, as a mediator and as a promoter of disarmament. it shows that even small countries have an important role to play in the un and in international politics. we fear that the voices of the small countries will not be heard if the eu is to speak with one voice in the context of the un. which of the eu's 25 voices would then speak through this common space? if the eu could speak with one voice in the un, why are britain and france defending their current permanent seats on the security council? why is germany seeking a seat on the security council? the truth is that eu countries do not share a common view on international political issues. this has been demonstrated on several occasions, not least in connection with the us intervention in iraq. let us embrace the multifaceted europe and let us work to ensure that all voices are heard in the debate. give it up.
mr president, council, commission, members and audience. the un summit made clear the need for cooperation against terrorism, climate change, international crime, migration and weapons of mass destruction and that more cooperation is needed, not less. the peacebuilding commission was given a lot of room. the european parliament is now able to follow up. following the initiative of the swedish foreign minister, with 13 female foreign ministers and commissioner ferrero-waldner, we now have the peace-prevention work to look at. we need to include more women and, above all, every other woman at all levels, so that gender representation enables women and men to do a better job. and why is that so important? yes, because in modern wars and conflicts, the vast majority of the victims are innocent women and children. the transition from conflict to sustainable peace requires all the resources and civil solutions. how do we follow up on this in the eu? when the mdgs were discussed, it became clear that donor countries had to be more generous. that is why we are very pleased to have heard this weekend that 18 countries have been granted debt relief. i regret that only sweden and four other countries are achieving 0.7% aid, we must do better. and by the year 2000, sweden will reach the level of 1 percent. with all the food we serve here in the eu, we should be able to fill the glass easily.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i want to join the harsh criticism of the lukashenko regime here tonight. we have seen a serious deterioration of an already bad situation in belarus, and the regime is now increasingly showing the classic features of a political dictatorship. i can agree with almost all the points made in the resolution, but i think there is one area which could be developed further. this concerns the importance of the independent trade union movement in belarus. independent trade unions have been one of the key organisers of opposition to the lukashenko regime, but they are today fighting for their survival and existence under the oppression. there is a great deal of cooperation between trade unions in other eu countries, e.g. in sweden, and independent trade unions in belarus. i hope they will have the support of the european union for the democratic opposition. we have been reminded this week of the importance of solidarity in poland and it is not without significance that we have a strong and independent trade union movement to achieve the changes needed in belarus.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to thank the vatanen for this report and for the great work it has done. we are facing a serious problem, but i would like to point out that we are on the right track in europe. we have a lot of dead, way too many - we wouldn't accept any - but the death rate is going down. it is important that europe is a model in the global road safety effort, and we can be. in terms of technological progress, we are an example. if we get better cars in europe and in the world, we'll get our death rate down. we must use good examples, we have a proposal in amendment no 5 to encourage buyers of transport to demand road safety from those who sell transport. we can use legislation, for example on alcohol in traffic, because we know that you should never drive drunk in traffic. but i do not think that the legislative instrument should be used in the case of speeds, because the road surface can be very different and the condition of the roads different, so we must have a varied view of road safety. then we can set an example for the rest of the world.
in writing. the proposal for a developed partnership between the eu and india contains several good proposals, including the development of economic links between the continents and the strengthening of human rights. we are, however, opposed to the eu's threat to impose protectionist measures on india. this is done while the eu subsidises its own agricultural products dumped on the indian market. this leads to the elimination of local production, including milk. we cannot support the overall aim of the proposal to strengthen the eu as an international actor. in this context, the partnership is another way of strengthening the eu's global role, which undermines the foreign policy of the member states. that is why we are voting against the report as a whole.
in writing. the report contains many good proposals for improving road safety in europe. but we think that the eu's role in road safety is being overstated. the report points out that if all member states were to achieve the same results as the uk and sweden, the number of fatalities would fall by 17 000 a year in the eu-25. that would be a 39 percent reduction. it also notes that a campaign launched in france in 2002 has reduced the number of fatal accidents by 30 percent in two years. the individual member states can therefore improve their own road safety and are ultimately responsible for these matters. political responsibility lies with the national parliaments. this report goes too far when it even calls on the commission to promote education at primary school level in order to reduce the mortality rate among young people. it is the responsibility of the member states to integrate traffic education into the school curriculum. we are voting against this report because we believe that it is based on a faulty reasoning about which political level is responsible for road safety issues.
in writing. the moderates and the christian democrats have today voted against the own-initiative report on road safety. we believe that road safety in all its forms is of the utmost importance and that the report raises a number of urgent proposals. however, the reason for our position is that the report is largely dominated by issues which should be dealt with at national rather than eu level. an expansion of the eu's influence in the field of road safety would lead to unnecessary detail governments and more bureaucracy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. kinnock is right. africa doesn't need more guns. the strategy shows that more needs to be done. development policy will never succeed if trade policy sabotages it. i would also like to warn against an exaggerated belief that foreign capital and companies will solve africa's problems. we must support the development of locally owned businesses where the profits stay in africa. it is important that they have full freedom to choose their own path of development, free from pressure and forced market opening. they must decide for themselves what is in their best interests. a coherent approach between trade, development cooperation and democracy support is needed to give africa that chance. that goes for our research policy as well. i ask you to support the demand that the seventh framework programme for research be used to increase research on neglected tropical diseases. they kill millions of people every year.
the ppe group is in favour of the report. mr president, many of us thought that a democratic breakthrough had taken place in ethiopia in the context of the elections in may. oh, how wrong we were! in the days following the election, the meles government showed that it was having difficulty accepting the opposition's huge gains. laws were passed that limited the opposition's ability to act. the media is again tightly controlled by the regime, opposition politicians have been repeatedly arrested, peaceful demonstrations have been brutally suppressed by the security police, leading to over 40 deaths in june. the events of the past few days unfortunately confirm this picture. the negotiations between the opposition and the ruling party broke down a few days ago after the government refused to discuss what i believe are the obvious demands for democratic reforms. as a consequence, a number of opposition members chose not to attend the next sitting of parliament. the result was a law that stripped these members of their immunity. the opposition members who attended the meeting were denied the right to participate in the negotiations. we in this house know that such methods have nothing to do with democracy. the resolution we are discussing now looks at the events after the elections in may. our intention is not primarily to criticize the government and the ruling party. we intend to show that we are deeply concerned about developments in ethiopia, as commissioner michel has said, and to call on both sides to open negotiations and to seize the opportunity for peaceful and democratic development in the country which was strongly supported by the elections in may. the union is willing to contribute to positive developments in ethiopia, including support for poverty reduction, but this can only be achieved in conditions of respect for democratic principles and human rights. the meles government must address this, otherwise it risks losing its friends, which would ultimately be the poor people.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i negotiated in the lisbon process the resolution adopted in the european parliament on behalf of the alde group. on that basis, we can be honest and say that the midterm results for the lisbon strategy are disastrous. very, very few of the key figures that have been put forward have actually been achieved. to complete the mission, we have only half the time left, but actually double the task. while we're sitting here wondering why we're lagging behind the united states in economic growth, you're sitting in the united states wondering why china's growth is twice that of the united states. i think the rapporteur has drawn up a very good report, but i am sorry to say that it is far too kind. we have agreed with the commission's proposal and supported the idea that this whole process should be based on europe having a knowledge-driven economy, but that would require both rather tough decisions and also living up to the ambitions of the budgetary discussions. what we can see is that the proposals coming from the commission, which have been supported by all the major groups in the european parliament, are not supported at all by the council of ministers. the budgetary discussions now being held on the budget plans are frankly embarrassing, because the proposals in question would, instead of increasing the research budget from the current level, in fact reduce it by more than 40 per cent. the same applies to the proposals on the eu level in the field of education. the debate has raised the issue of lifelong learning. this is of course a very important basis for all citizens to be able to benefit from this knowledge-based economy. i therefore ask the commission to explain why there are budget lines with enormous sums of money for lifelong learning that are not being used, that are locked up and impossible to search and that no one will have access to until this budget period has expired. i also wonder whether a very important issue in this context is the question of improving administration. i think that is very much a matter for the member states. as regards the report itself, i have a question on language training. language education is very important, but why focus on the languages of neighbouring countries? it is the freedom of students to choose which languages they wish to study, and it is not something that the commission and brussels should control. finally, our group will support this report. we think the rapporteur has done a very good job, but we are actually calling for a much tougher approach. we are not only asking parliament to meet its objectives, but also the commission to meet its objectives and to release the money for lifelong learning for application, and we are asking the council to answer the question of why in one breath it talks about a knowledge-driven economy and in the next does not allocate the necessary funds.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, we in the left group believe that women should have equal and fair access to all health care. we cannot accept that women should have access to only certain health care. equal access to all health care, we believe. poverty affects all aspects of life, education, health, housing, social exclusion, but i would like to highlight the importance of women's ability to provide for themselves. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the social partners, the social partners and the social partners. women in the eu still earn on average only 85% of men's wages, and in some countries the gap is even wider. in addition to these unfair wage differences, women are referred to low-wage jobs, part-time work, poor employment conditions, etc. and this discrimination follows women throughout their lives, right up to retirement age, with pension systems that also discriminate against women. mr. speaker, women are not weak, but they are made weak.
for the verts/ale group. thank you, commissioner, for putting this proposal forward. i have long been waiting for driftnets to be banned in the baltic sea, the last sea in the eu where they are still allowed. i thank you for holding to that view even though there is criticism of this ban here in the european parliament at times. i should like to thank our rapporteur for his willingness to compromise on this issue as well. it was also wrong of the council not to involve the new member states in this process from the outset. it would have made the process easier if they had been included in the first stage. i don't think we can wait until the last of the tumbleweeds is dead before we can finally establish the scientific evidence, because then it's too late. we have seen studies showing the risks of drift nets and i think those studies well justify the precautionary principle here. the biodiversity of the baltic sea is very fragile. it is a very delicate sea and we must not risk upsetting this balance. i'm now awaiting your next initiative. a year ago we discussed the possibilities for countries to voluntarily introduce fishing stops and compensation to fishermen to improve the catching possibilities for future generations. i am waiting for rules from the commission to facilitate the possibility of voluntary cessation of fishing by countries wishing to increase the amount of fish in their waters for future profits. i hope we can discuss it in more detail.
mr president, the background for this request is as follows: the debate on the serious situation in ethiopia and the motion for a resolution have been in the making for quite some time. political groups agreed on a text last friday, but since then a lot of things have happened in ethiopia that are of great importance and ought to be referred to in the text. however, since the deadline had expired, there was no way we could really do that. the most serious thing that has happened is that the negotiations between the ruling party and the opposition parties broke down about a week ago, primarily because of the refusal of the ruling party and the prime minister to even discuss a number of issues related to the need for democratic reform. furthermore, the parliament in addis abbaba convened, and some of the opposition members were not taking part because of the breakdown in those negotiations. i believe i should explain the background to this, otherwise it does not make sense for members.
in writing. china is one of the fastest growing economies in the world. it is also the eu's largest trading partner, after the united states. it is therefore important for the eu to develop both trade and cooperation with this part of the world. our position on principle is that europe does not benefit from distancing itself from this growing economy of tariffs and quotas. china's growing economic power is affecting most industries. today's "textile wars" will therefore spread to other areas gradually. therefore, trying to protect unprofitable industries from international competition is not a sustainable solution. sweden has experienced this for 30 years, both in the coal and shipbuilding industries. the eu faces the choice between implementing centrally regulated protectionism or stimulating growth from below to meet growing international competition. unfortunately, several of the party groups are choosing the first route. we cannot therefore support the report. i also support the proposal to introduce a system of labelling the country of origin of products.
in writing. we believe that the eu has an important role to play in strengthening democracy and human rights in its neighbourhood. in the global work on peace, disarmament and human rights, we want to give priority to the un, which is better suited than the eu to solve these tasks. that is why we are voting against the resolutions on iran and ethiopia, even though we can support in principle several of their demands.
in writing. we are voting against this resolution by the european parliament. we fully agree with the swedish parliament's eu committee's decision of 7 november 2000 when it expressed its opinion on the question of increased eu coordination in the field of education. the eu parliamentary committee adopted a letter stating that the exclusive responsibility of the member states for the organisation of education and the content of education systems must be fully respected. the next day, eu education ministers met and adopted the amendment from the parliament's eu committee, presented by sweden's then education minister. we see no reason to reconsider this position.
in writing. we have abstained in the final vote on this report. this is a matter of the utmost importance - so important that it must be maintained as a political responsibility of the member states or their subordinate levels. the member states have exclusive responsibility for the organisation of teaching and the content of education systems. this applies in particular to the integration of immigrants and the organisation of education in both the immigrants' mother tongue and the language of the new country.
in writing. this report contains several proposals which we cannot support in any way. the question is why should the european parliament call on the member states and the commission to recognise the circus as part of european culture? the report also proposes the setting up of service units and information campaigns to facilitate the activities of circus companies. the report raises the question of the education of children in circus companies. free movement and access to education are important issues. however, this has to be dealt with in a larger and more cross-sectoral context than in a report like this.
in writing. the junilist group votes against this report because it is yet another example of how the european parliament, through its own-initiative report, wants to give the eu new areas of competence. the report also calls for the eu to be more involved in the fight against terrorism and to be more involved in the fight against organised crime. the report is a typical example of how the eu, through new 'models', 'tools', 'dialogue', 'working groups', various support programmes and eventually new institutions, is building bureaucracy and supranationality.
in writing. we voted for amendments nos 1, 3 and 5. we are in favour of a guaranteed decent standard of living. we are opposed to the introduction of state-relegated minimum wages. we interpret the term 'guaranteed income' in the above amendments not as meaning a certain guaranteed minimum wage but rather as a guaranteed reasonable standard of living.
in writing. the resolution on women and poverty in the eu contains several demands that are important to pay attention to, including equal access to health care for women and men and the fight against violence against women. it should be emphasised that this is the responsibility of the member states. we do not support the proposal for a "guaranteed minimum income". under the swedish labour market model, wages are determined through negotiations between trade unions and employers, not through legislation. in addition, the introduction of a minimum wage may lead to wage cuts in many low-wage groups, which are particularly likely to affect women. in view of the above, we choose to abstain from voting on the final vote on the resolution.
mr president, i would like to thank you. every year, thousands of students from all over europe have the opportunity to study abroad thanks to the programmes we are discussing. in fact, for many, this student exchange is the most tangible benefit of the whole eu project. studying abroad is not just about acquiring new knowledge and new experiences of a different culture. the dissemination of knowledge also contributes to strengthening the quality of european education, which is one of the cornerstones of the lisbon process. the vote tomorrow will simplify administrative procedures, which could lead to more schools and universities participating more actively in the programmes and encourage more students to study abroad. i am also glad that we social democrats have protested during this process against the proposals for cuts that the epp wanted to make in vocational training and that we have stood up for the continuation of good opportunities for vocational trainers to study abroad. indeed, vocational training makes a very important contribution to the eu economy and the functioning of the labour market. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also called for the introduction of a european standard for the quality of water. as regards funding, i would also very much like to see money for these programmes, but at the same time i think that all the budgetary issues should be dealt with at the same time so that we really have to prioritise what is important. i will therefore support the amendments to parliament's report on the whole budget, the böge report.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. this report notes that cultural diversity is limited in several of the eu countries' respective film industries. it is clear that european films are having a hard time competing with their american counterparts. whether we view this fact as a problem or as something we have to accept, the question we should ask ourselves is this: is the eu supposed to deal with this type of policy issue or is this the responsibility of the member states? the junilists' answer is given, this is a question for the member states. if the member states wish to devote special resources to promoting the national film industry, they are of course fully entitled to do so. the eu, however, will not pursue specific programmes to promote the european film industry. if several eu countries consider it necessary to cooperate in this policy area, they can do so without the eu's involvement. intergovernmental agreements or cooperation between film companies may take place outside the eu. amendment no 15 refers to the eu constitution and stresses that the eu constitution emphasises the value of respecting cultural and linguistic diversity. however, this is not a legitimate reason to support eu programmes like this. the members of this house must accept that the people of france and the netherlands voted against the eu constitution, which has therefore fallen and is no longer relevant to refer to. the culture committee wants to invest over one billion euros in this programme. the eu does not need any more ambitious and costly projects. the eu should instead seek limited cooperation on important and genuinely crossborder issues.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr hans blokland, for the very extensive and good work he has done on this report. of course, we would also have liked to have had more to gain from the compromise with the council. we have chosen not to sign it because we would have liked it to be even stronger, but at the same time it is highly doubtful whether a compromise would have been sufficient to achieve a better result than that achieved in these negotiations. as regards the legal basis, we would like to make it absolutely clear that this is an environmental issue. the aim must be to address the serious environmental problems associated with the trade in waste. we think it is completely unreasonable to treat hazardous waste as a commodity like others and we therefore believe that article 175 should be the sole legal basis. the rapporteur raised in his opening remarks the issue of non-compliance with the existing rules. we can probably expect some breaches of these rules as well. therefore, every effort should be made to ensure that they are actually observed. in this respect, the regulatory framework we have before us could have been stronger, but the greater the responsibility of the commission to ensure that these rules are actually implemented in practice. we hope you will devote your attention to this rather than questioning the legal basis. i also agree that there is a need for a much stronger international regulatory framework on ship scrapping and we need to return to this issue as soon as possible.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. when we discuss climate issues in this house, we tend to agree quite a bit. we tend to agree that we are the biggest environmental problem of our time, we tend to agree that we have to do more. now that we're here, now that we can do more, now that we can make sure that some of the most harmful greenhouse gases are eliminated or phased out, or at least limited. we know there are alternatives, and that's when we have to confess color. i fully support the rapporteur's claim that article 175 should be the legal basis. this is an environmental issue. it would be absurd to want to lower the environmental standards already in place in some of the eu member states when they should actually be tightened up. it's the hindrance to invention and innovation that you don't let countries get ahead. the objection is, but can it not prevent the single market? yes, it is possible, but my group believes that the right of democratic countries to tighten environmental standards if it is good for the environment - and it is - takes precedence over the right of companies to sell the exact same product across a certain market. we have seen unprecedented and brazen lobbying on this issue by a range of companies. several of these companies are attacking the democratic right of member states to tighten their legislation. these same companies often want to call themselves environmentally friendly or claim to have a modern environmental policy. it can only be summed up in one word, hypocrisy. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank mr doyle, who has done a very meritorious job with this report. i see it as our duty as legislators to stimulate and facilitate the development of new and more environmentally friendly technologies. when new environmentally friendly technologies are available at reasonable cost, there is no reason for us to allow older environmentally destructive technologies. in the legislative field, we should also, if possible, avoid adopting a particular technical solution simply because it is the best for the environment at the time of the legislation. instead, we should set maximum levels for emissions and other environmental impacts. in this context, i am actually quite satisfied with the environment committee's proposal to limit the use of greenhouse gases, although i would naturally have liked some of my own amendments, which go a little further, for example on the use of hydrofluorocarbons, to have also been approved by the majority of the committee, but the environment committee has nevertheless decided to require more substances to be phased out than those proposed by the council. i am particularly pleased that the committee has supported the legal basis of article 175, which has already been mentioned by several speakers. the committee also welcomes the commission's proposal to introduce a new system for the identification of dangerous substances in foodstuffs. environmental standards should not be harmonised downwards but upwards within the eu. as far as air conditioning in cars is concerned, we have not been convinced that there are any reasons today to require that the gas used must not have a warming potential higher than 50, partly because the climate gains from such a reduction are very small and at the same time very costly, but above all because the technology with carbon dioxide is still too untested for us to stick to it. that is why we in the socialist group support the rapporteur on this specific question. finally, i would like to call on everyone to support the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment tomorrow, and of course the amendments tabled by the socialist group, including those on introducing the stricter rules on air conditioning in cars at an earlier date than the committee on the environment has proposed.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner mccreevy, you have launched a frontal attack on the swedish constitutional right to strike. you claim to accept the nordic model of collective agreements, but at the same time you want to undermine it with your legislation. you must realise that our legislative aim is to protect every worker against unfair working conditions, not swedish workers against latvian ones. you are making the most common mistake of all politicians at eu level, you believe that what worked in your country for a certain period of time will work for the eu in the future. your unilateral single market and growth policy as finance minister in ireland succeeded for a time in reducing unemployment and raising incomes. but it was due to certain temporary national contingencies. the success was achieved despite the lack of social protection, not because of it. in sweden, we have made tough transitions because of the security that social protection has given us. but the nordic model also has its own unique conditions which cannot be exported to the eu level by means of legislation. the right thing to do is to learn from each other but to allow legislation to be adapted to the conditions of each region. otherwise, we're going to have a centrally controlled "eurosclerosis". the eu is like a football team, what you do as a coach is you see that you have a good player in zlatan ibrahimovic. you conclude that all players should use his shoe size and that you should have 11 forwards on your team. with that tactic, our football team would lose to both india and china. instead, you have to see the potential for development of each player and what each player can bring to the team, without stifling the individual creativity, as long as they follow the basic rules of the game, only then there is a chance for the world cup title. (applause) i would like to thank you.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the vaxholm case is yet another example of the great risks we run when we allow pluralistic europe to be slowly pushed back in our quest for equality. in sweden we have a special tradition which has been very successful and which is based on collective agreements and this is now seriously threatened. i would just like to point out at this minute that the junilists are firmly in favour of the member states applying their own legislation in these areas. their own traditions, collective agreements, etc. must prevail and must not become something that is threatened by the activities of brussels. we therefore reject any form of action which would make the principle of the country of origin applicable to these matters.
mr president, i would like to thank you. what exactly did mccreevy say in stockholm? he said that the swedish government was violating the internal market and that he intended to take action against the swedish government when the case was before the court. he says the same thing today. if this is not a challenge to the swedish collective bargaining model, i don't know what would be. watson, who is not here, says that the latvian company paid according to the swedish collective agreement model, but that is not true. they paid a little more than half of the swedish collective agreements, namely sek 78/hour, whereas the collective agreements in the stockholm area are sek 140/hour. mccreevy advocates that there should be 25 different collective agreements in each country. this is a race to the bottom, not a race to the top. is the swedish model less successful than other models? no, if we look at the lisbon process, we see that it is perhaps the most successful. is it more protectionist? no, poettering, i was just... sweden does not have the transitional rules that germany has, but is open to the entry of labour from all over the eu. is it discriminatory? the answer is no. all companies are treated equally, whether they are swedish or latvian, and collective agreements are drawn up on the basis of existing collective agreements. you, barroso, spoke of spain, you spoke of portugal. spain and portugal have moved up to the same level as other member states. what are you advocating now? yeah, a race to the bottom. you better think about this. you have started this debate on the social model by advocating that we should have a race to the bottom, that we should have different collective agreements in different countries, i.e. 25 different collective agreements. it will not create a european social model. so i advise you to start it in a different way, otherwise there will be a war over the debate on the social model. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the work to improve and clarify the all-important services directive is now at its best in parliament and the council of ministers. it is therefore strange and rather tragic that the directive is now being used as a baton in a fundamentally protectionist and nationalist debate in country after country. instead of standing up for the proposal and constructively trying to improve it, ministers in sweden and elsewhere have shamelessly exploited people's concerns about globalisation and jobs by painting the services directive as a major threat. social dumping is being presented as a vicious charm and an example of new vicious inventions from brussels. no one wants social dumping, but the services directive does not lead to social dumping, it does not threaten the swedish model or swedish collective agreements. the nearest hysterical tone of the social democratic trade unions and politicians here is irresponsible. the minister for economic affairs, mr östros, has lost his senses when he accuses the commission of intervening against a member state for a 'foreign company'. it cannot have escaped the attention of minister östros that the foreign company is latvian, that latvia is a member of the european union and that free movement is one of the cornerstones of eu cooperation. how is it that there are no problems when swedish construction workers go to germany and work for higher wages than in sweden but lower wages than the german construction workers? but it's a campaign in sweden, and then it's like this. free trade, competition, mobility of services is good for europe, it is good for sweden. sweden is one of the countries that stands to gain most from the removal of barriers to knowledge-intensive services. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the vaxholm dispute is a matter for the ec court of justice. the european parliament is not a court of law, but neither is the commission or any individual commissioner. commissioner mccreevy, on 5 october you succeeded in challenging the entire swedish trade union movement, the scandinavian labour law model, the european trade union movement, the member states and the citizens with a few sentences. is your statement, commissioner mccreevy, a receipt of what thoughts and ideas are really being discussed in the commission's closed rooms? if that is the case, it is good that we citizens, the left and the trade union movement have now had proof that all the fine talk about social dialogue and the social dimension is just fine talk, then the commission has shown which side you are on in terms of working conditions and so on. but then you'll know that you've challenged the entire left movement and the trade union movement. we in sweden have the lowest proportion of working days lost to labour market conflicts in the eu. we are a country that welcomes workers and service companies from other countries, but we will never accept discrimination and pitting workers against workers. we refuse to accept discrimination even in the labour market. workers' rights are not for sale, not even in the eu's internal market. the mercenaries are not commodities - we are men of flesh and blood and we will defend our rights. we on the left and the trade union movement have taken up the fight before and we are fully prepared to do so again, to take up the fight for solidarity and justice.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my colleague jan andersson of the socialist group pointed out just now that sweden did not introduce any transitional rules when the new members joined the european union. it was good that he said that, because he was boasting about his own loss, because he and his party were in the forefront of fighting free movement and wanted to introduce transitional rules, but they lost. (applause from the group of the european people's party) as a result, sweden is the country with free movement today. they were running a scare campaign about social tourism. we know the result: last year, the social tourism that jan andersson and other social democrats were threatening cost 18 000 euros in sweden. it's close to zero, but we've had a lot of people who have been able to contribute tax revenue and jobs to our country. we'll be glad you lost, because europe won. (applause from the group of the european people's party) this is not about the services directive. we are now witnessing a new propaganda of terror of the same kind as we heard a year ago. it is not about the services directive or chinese wages - it is a pure disrespect to our new members from central and eastern europe to threaten that freedom and the opportunity to work in europe will lead to chinese wages. nor is it a question of calling into question collective agreements in sweden, because the principle of the country of origin is not at issue at all. it is about allowing people from europe with collective agreements to work in a country where they also comply with the laws and regulations of that country. this is the kind of scare propaganda you are making, pure scare propaganda, directed against the services directive but ultimately directed against our new members from central and eastern europe who have made the european union richer. i can state one thing, namely that we swedish moderates will protect and guard the fact that we in sweden decide about our labour market and our rules, but we will also protect openness. i would just like to point out to the socialist group here that they are using the european union to legislate on the swedish labour market or the working time directive and the sunshine directive: we are to safeguard the swedish labour market and swedish freedom but we are also to safeguard the freedom of the european union. (applause from the group of the european people's party)
in writing. we have voted in favour of the ec-azerbaijan air service agreement, but this does not mean that we approve of the opening by azerbaijan of air services between the turkish-occupied north of cyprus and baku. we do not think that the opening of this air link is a reason to vote against this air service agreement. these are two different issues and negotiations with azerbaijan on the above mentioned air link must be taken in a different context.
in writing. this report strikes a balance between the internal market and the environment. in principle, we believe that the eu member states should decide for themselves whether or not to allow domestic companies to import waste from other countries. however, compliance with international agreements and the absence of environmental risks for other member states are necessary. of course, environmentally hazardous chemicals should not be transported via international waterways if alternative options are available. we have chosen to support the line of the committee on the environment, which represents a reasonable compromise between environmental considerations and compliance with the rules of the internal market. we therefore believe that international shipments of waste should be allowed, provided that the waste as such does not pose a significant environmental risk. in line with the above reasoning, we have opposed the rapporteur's position on some key points, such as that waste shipments should not be allowed if the waste can be handled in the country which produced it.
in writing. since the financial perspective for the period 2007-2013 was rejected by the european council, we cannot now deal with the action programme and its six sub-programmes for that period. we are in favour of the erasmus programme, for example, but there are other parts of the subprogramme proposals which need to be examined carefully and whether they are justified on the basis that each member state is responsible under the treaty for the organisation and content of education and training systems. we have therefore voted against the report today, as we believe that the financial perspective for the period 2007 to 2013 must first be clear.
in writing. since the financial perspective for 2007-2013 has been rejected by the european council, we consider it premature to discuss the establishment of the 'youth in action' programme at this stage. at the present time, it is unreasonable to support a total budget of eur 915 million (or eur 1 128 million depending on which proposal wins the vote) for this programme. the programme's content may also be called into question. the rapporteur states in his explanatory statement that it 'contributes significantly to an active citizenship of young people in society and deepens their sense of belonging to the eu, which can provide a significant european added value'. we question whether the programme really makes any substantial contribution to this objective. international youth exchanges are a positive thing, but they must be solved financially through the efforts of civil society or through the provision of funds by the member states. we do not think that the eu should contribute money from its budget in this area. we have therefore voted against the report today, as we believe that the financial perspective for the period 2007 to 2013 must first be clear.
in writing. i support voluntary service and youth programmes in/for the world, especially cooperation with non-eu countries. this creates a real sense of connection and understanding of the world around us. however, i cannot vote for the proposed increase of €200 million, particularly because the youth for europe contribution is being increased. youth for europe aims to create a new form of euro-nationalism, something we should have learned from history to avoid. i therefore abstain, as the proposal contains many positive as well as many negative elements.
in writing. of course, cultural matters are very important. junilista believes that cultural policy should, in principle, be managed by the member states. however, in the case of european cultural heritage, it may be justified to deal with certain issues at community level. however, individual expenditure items should not be discussed before the adoption of the eu's long-term budget. that is why the junilista has voted against this report.
, in writing. - i have decided to abstain in the final vote on the report on the 2007-2013 cultural programme. it is certainly important to promote intercultural dialogue, crossborder cultural projects and cultural exchanges which increase understanding of the different cultures in europe and which help to give concrete content to european citizenship. but the most concrete element in the european parliament's report is a very large increase in budget appropriations compared with what the commission is proposing. since i cannot support this budget increase, i have decided to abstain from voting on the report. i think that the commission's proposal on the amount of money to be budgeted for the cultural programme is quite sufficient.
in writing. i've always been a cultural advocate, but this program takes resources from national cultural budgets. the commission's proposal for a budget of €408 million is already an increase of 72%, but the ep's proposal for a budget of €600 million is too much. amendment no 29 on strengthening the sense of european citizenship is an example of the negative euronationalism that is constantly flourishing in the committee on culture. in addition, the programme has an excessive administrative burden, something that cultural workers in all countries agree is an obstacle to creative development. i therefore vote against this proposal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the junilists welcome romania and bulgaria as members of the european union in the same way as we welcome turkey, the countries of the western balkans and subsequently ukraine and hopefully belarus. the question is the timetable, because it is important. i would like to warn of the problems facing the eu if we take in a very short time a large number of poor and economically underdeveloped countries with little experience of democracy and the rule of law and with major problems of corruption. the enlargement of the union to 10 countries, which junilistan has been a strong supporter of, is already causing problems. now, bringing poor countries like romania and bulgaria into an eu that continues to be dragged down by an unreasonable agricultural policy, a poorly managed structural policy and that is struggling to prevent waste and corruption in its own system is dangerous for the future of the european project. we must ask ourselves at what stage a country should become a full member. is progress most rapid when a candidate country is working towards approval or after it has entered? i believe that the pressure to improve democracy, human rights, the judiciary and public administration and to establish a functioning market economy is strongest before the accession negotiations have begun and secondly before the country has been accepted as a member. the commission's report on the situation in romania and bulgaria is not convincing on these various points. we find a key point, but progress has been insufficient in a number of areas, and the commission gives long lists of what has not been implemented, such as infrastructure, organised crime, tax systems, the treatment of minorities. in this context, the membership of both countries should be suspended for the time being. this is in the long-term interest of both the european union and the two candidate countries.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the enlargement and unification of europe will of course not be complete without our friends romania and bulgaria. they have a natural place in the european community and we look forward to their accession shortly. in the liberal group we are delighted to have our colleagues, our observers here, to get to know them and to prepare each other for the coming membership. we are impressed by the progress made in both countries, but at the same time we must of course examine this progress, the implementation and the remaining problems. the commissioner pointed out some of these problems, areas requiring further action with which there is a certain urgency. we must be vigilant in the field of human rights, which is an area to which parliament in general and the liberal group in particular always give special attention. we owe it to the people of the candidate countries, and we owe it to ourselves, to be able to defend european values. corruption is a major concern, and the roma, europe's largest minority, live marginalized lives with high unemployment, high rates of ill health and serious social problems, in romania and bulgaria as in many other european countries. discrimination and racial violence unfortunately still exist and it is all too common that it is on the part of the authorities. this is of course not acceptable. another concern mentioned by some colleagues is that of children, especially those in institutions, including those with intellectual disabilities. there are alarming signs of open neglect of these children and this is of course unworthy of a member state. i hope that the commission will step up its efforts to help romania and bulgaria to overcome these and other problems so that it is possible - as i still believe and hope - to do so in the context of membership in 2007.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank commissioner rehn for a well-balanced report. unfortunately, i do not think that the debate on enlargement is always balanced. those who want to slow down enlargement talk about the danger of taking in poor countries, that the eu treaty referendums changed the eu climate and that europe has become colder. they say that the referendums were not really about the treaty itself but about other things. and that is true, it has been about other things because we political leaders in europe did not show enough political leadership, because we were not able to explain that the referendums on the treaty were really about the treaty and not about anything else. let us now make sure that we do not make the same mistake, that the debate today on the accession of romania and bulgaria to the european union is really about that and nothing else. we must show that we have visions and plans for enlargement. enlargement is not about taking in new members haphazardly when we please and when public opinion in our countries allows it. enlargement is about democracy and freedom in europe, but above all about european security - i am surprised that nobody mentioned it today. it would be wrong to see the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu as an isolated event, because many challenges await us in the coming years, such as the debate on the status of kosovo, the referendum, the independence of montenegro, the continuing discussions with bosnia on serbia, macedonia's application for membership. in this very uncertain security situation, it would be wrong to postpone the accession of romania and bulgaria without being absolutely necessary. no one here, nor in romania and bulgaria, is suggesting that we should include a country that does not meet the criteria, but we should not disqualify anyone in advance either. if europe has become colder since the referendums, then it is our task to warm it up. if europe has become more selfish and closed, then it is our task to make it more generous and open, that is what makes the difference between those who form opinion and those who create opinion, that is what makes us the political leaders of europe who take responsibility.
many eu citizens who enter israel are subjected to very brutal and degrading treatment, particularly if they are of arab origin or if they are active in solidarity with the democratic development of palestine. recently, a young swedish woman who had travelled to israel was subjected to very violent treatment. she was threatened with death by the israeli border guards and she was rejected in the most brutal ways because she has worked for a democratic and free palestine. in your relations with the israelis, do you raise the question of how they treat eu citizens when they enter israel?
for the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i thank rapporteur mojca drčar murko and commissioner markos kyprianou for the willingness to reach agreement that you have shown in the course of this work. the socialist group naturally welcomes the commission's proposal to restrict the use of substances in jelly jelly in mini-cups, which have led to tragic choking accidents. we also welcome the commission's proposal to regulate the amount of nitrates and nitrites on the basis of additives in meat, for example, instead of residues as is the case now. we believe that this will lead to a safer control for consumers. we want these restrictions to come into force as soon as possible and that is why we have been keen to find a quick settlement with the council. we are also pleased that the agreement with the council means that the use of soybean hemicellulose is restricted in order not to make things more difficult for allergy sufferers. on the other hand, we would have liked to see lower maximum levels for nitrates and nitrites. we would also have liked to see a ban on the use of antibiotics in foodstuffs because of the risk of increasing resistance and we would have liked to see a more thorough examination of the risks of the sweetener aspartame, but on these points we were opposed by a majority in the committee. now that the commission has expressed in writing and in this house that it takes our concerns about the long-term use of aspartame and antibiotics in food seriously, we will support the compromise reached with the council and therefore vote against the other amendments. however, we would like to call on the commission to return to these issues as soon as possible, to revise these directives in depth, taking into account the need to limit the use of additives in food and to take greater account of the situation of vulnerable groups. more and more people are rightly expressing concern about the amount of additives in food and its long-term consequences. the eu must take these concerns very seriously.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the parliament's draft budget for 2006 provides for an increase to 1.04 per cent of the average gross national income of the member states. i regret that parliament is trying to increase expenditure on a large number of items without proposing corresponding and sufficient savings in other areas. the council, i.e. the governments of the member states, proposes that expenditure be limited to 1.01% of gross national income for 2006. i support that motion. the member states are responsible for setting the framework for spending. this is a level that the member states and the net payers have been willing to accept. my basic view is that parliament should have a great deal of influence over priorities within this framework, but the political responsibility in the various countries for the amount of taxes to be collected lies with the national governments. we should not try to stretch the budget in parliament all the time - that is going too far. parliament must confine itself to the main task of setting priorities within the framework set by the member states.
in writing. we share the view that a continuous review of the legislation in force is necessary. the question is, however, at what political level the legislation should be established. we are of the opinion that the food additives to be authorized should be decided on by the national food authorities of the member states. if the food authority of a country considers that certain specific additives should be allowed in the preparation and sale of a food, we see no reason for an eu directive to affect this assessment. food safety and public health are of paramount importance. they should therefore only be handled by eu authorities where there are tangible and cross-border benefits to be gained from doing so. there are good reasons to believe that this report, and similar legislative proposals, will further strengthen eu authorities such as the european food safety authority (efsa). we have voted in favour of the amendments which emphasize that this is a minimum directive, and which thus make it clear that national flexibility should be allowed. we have voted against the report as a whole. we are confident that the national food authorities of the member states are fully competent to handle this important matter satisfactorily. our position naturally presupposes that goods are labelled with the country of origin. this is to enable consumers to make an active and informed choice.
in writing. the junilist is in favour of increased cooperation and information exchange between member states to combat organised crossborder crime. however, decisions on the harmonisation of criminal and procedural law should be taken only by unanimity of the member states and subject to scrutiny by national parliaments. the determination of the nature of the offence, the mitigating circumstances and the criminal value of the offence shall not be a matter for the european parliament.
in writing. this resolution deals with a highly transnational issue. there is therefore good reason for the eu countries to coordinate the measures taken and the political decisions taken. we have therefore voted in favour of the resolution as a whole. however, we would like to stress that eu action in isolation is insufficient to address the challenges posed by the global influenza pandemic. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the eu acts in cooperation with the world health organisation (who). we question certain points in the report, such as the need for the commission to develop a comprehensive communication strategy together with the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc). we assume that the eu countries are fully capable of communicating with their citizens on their own, without the assistance of eu bodies. we believe that internationally recognised organisations such as the who should be working on global health issues. several amendments ignore this, and instead emphasise the eu's international role. we criticise the fact that the european parliament is using an important political issue in this way to strengthen the eu and its international political role.
in writing. the own-initiative report is part of the process of establishing a european immigration policy, with a single procedure for all member states. the junilista group, however, believes that member states should be free to determine the form of their economic migration policy and that it should not be for the european parliament to lay down the rules applicable in this area. we believe that economic migration should not be seen as a problem requiring harmonisation at european level - on the contrary, member states should be allowed to deal with these issues independently. for example, a member state wishing to allow generous rules on economic migration should be able to do so in accordance with the principle of institutional competition.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. as we approach the 10th anniversary, there is every reason to evaluate the barcelona process. the world today looks very different from what it did 10 years ago. we have had enlargement with, for example, cyprus and have started negotiations with turkey and croatia, the neighbourhood policy has developed and we have seen how democratization in many of our partner countries has progressed and in some cases unfortunately also backslidden. the fight against terrorism has become increasingly important. the war in iraq and the difficult process that the country is now going through on its way to democracy also affect relations with the region. we have iran and the problems of nuclear fuel policy there, the gaza strip and the palestinian elections, but at the same time a stagnation in the peace process. the exciting events in lebanon and syria and the continuing tragic situation in africa's last colony, western sahara, show that there is still a great deal to be done in the region. in this context, it is natural to reconsider and discuss the barcelona process. it has created structures, very important ones, and a form of closer cooperation between us. the association agreements with all the countries have led to closer exchanges, trade, projects, many meeting places and it has created a long-term commitment for the whole union. the proof is that here are members from all over europe, not just the south, debating tonight. we have a common history and culture and also common problems and solutions: terrorism, migration, growth, development, trade, environment, energy, yes, there are many. but above all, the future is about human rights and democracy. this is the most important point and here the barcelona process has failed in many ways. e association agreements contain human rights clauses but they are not used because we do not have good mechanisms to deal with serious violations in the countries with which we cooperate. interest is also quite limited at times. this is the great challenge for the barcelona process in the future. we must restructure the whole cooperation so that it becomes a framework for a gigantic democratization effort throughout the region. nothing contributes more to stability than the transition to democracy. the middle east is the most unforgiving region in the world, and this is creating a breeding ground for fanaticism, frustration and perhaps even terrorism. that is why we must, within the barcelona process, devise strategies for comprehensive democratization efforts, support for dissidents, civil society, the legal community, freedom of expression, etc. the means of this are, of course, trade, exchanges, educational programmes and cultural cooperation. the barcelona process must thus become a kind of alternative to countries which can never become members of the eu. it must provide tangible benefits in return for our demands for reform. if we succeed in this, we will make a historic contribution. in conclusion, i would like to commend my colleague, mr jäätteenmäki, on a very good report.
in writing. we want the budget to contribute to the sustainable social, economic and environmental development of the eu in line with the lisbon strategy. we have therefore voted in favour of the amendments which give priority to research, development and education. however, we do not want to support the amendments which provide more money for direct agricultural aid, since this aid is already over-extended. this support results in inefficient agriculture that harms the environment and, by dumping surpluses, contributes to widening the gap between the world's poor and rich. we also do not want to give money to tobacco farming, which directly contributes to public health problems. we believe that this aid should be reduced rapidly and that it should be abolished in the near future. the money thus saved can be used, among other things, for measures to reduce tobacco use and dependence. we want to see a reform of direct aid to sugar growers, since we cannot support a production which is largely superfluous in the long term. we do not want to leave farmers in developing countries without a livelihood, and that is why we voted for transitional support to compensate them until they have changed their production.
in writing. the junilist believes that the eu budget should be limited to 1.00% of the average gnp of the member states and therefore supports the council's position in principle. the 2006 budget is the last budget in the current financial perspective, and it is particularly unfortunate that the european parliament is trying to move its positions forward in the forthcoming negotiations by proposing substantial increases. we have therefore voted against all the increases proposed by the european parliament, while welcoming the few savings proposed by the committee on budgets or by individual members in the form of amendments. there are other unfortunate budget lines, but junilista particularly regrets the high level of support for the eu's agricultural policy, the cohesion fund, the fisheries sector and the budget lines which support various forms of information campaigns.
in writing. we believe that the eu has an important role to play in its own area in promoting democracy and human rights. however, both resolutions concern countries and territories which cannot be considered as being adjacent to the eu. it is clear that the aim is to highlight the role of the eu in foreign and security policy. other organisations are suitable for this purpose, such as the un, the osce and the council of europe. the latter two organisations should be given priority in the monitoring of elections and the protection of human rights in europe. in view of the above, we shall abstain in the final vote on the two resolutions. however, we have chosen to support some proposals which, in our opinion, are outside the eu's foreign and security policy. this includes proposals to establish a free trade area between the eu and the mediterranean by 2010, and to develop cooperation on civil and environmental protection.
writer. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the council made a good decision on the arms embargo on 3 october. uzbekistan does not need weapons, they can be used to oppress its own people. it is good that we are today calling for an independent inquiry into what happened in abyssinia. the media is tightly controlled and opposition and grassroots movements are prevented from meeting. the demands we place on president karimov shouldn't be so difficult to meet. he only needs to comply with his own constitution, which states that there should be freedom of movement, freedom of association and assembly and that the courts should be independent. it is not an unreasonable demand that a president follow the constitution of his own country, and that is what we are demanding here today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there have been at least five occasions during this part-session when the headphones for the whole row behind me where i normally sit - and therefore the interpretation - have not worked. the microphone has also not worked, so that the president could have been informed of this. we have shown great flexibility in the votes and have continued with those from that row, but next time there are many important issues, including reach, and then we have to make sure that the technology works otherwise the session may be interrupted in the most inappropriate way, so i hope you can solve it by next month.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the european commission has written to the swedish government asking it to intervene in the work of the supreme court. the basic principle of democracy is the separation of powers. it is constitutionally impossible for the swedish government to intervene in the work of the supreme court. i think this is a serious violation of our constitutional principle. it would therefore be good if parliament could explain to the commission that it too must respect the rules of the game in each country. the supreme court is the highest independent body in sweden; we have no constitutional court or other means of controlling the government. if the commission now calls on our government to influence the supreme court, it would damage our constitution, the way our country works and the way our democracy works. it would be unfortunate if it happened again.
madam president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague mr brejc for his work on this report and for his efforts to concentrate it on the really important issues. i must say, however, that it will be difficult to support the report as it has been drawn up after the committee's consideration if there are no changes to it. the current version of the report states that globalisation is creating gaps and imbalances between countries and within societies. this is not true! if there is one thing that globalization has brought, it is prosperity and well-being to the poorest parts of the world. today we see poverty eradicated in large parts of asia. we see people in taiwan, china, india and more countries gradually gaining dignity and prosperity. globalization has helped to break the cycle of poverty that has plagued large parts of the world for centuries. in these areas we see today growing wealth and growing prosperity and growing respect for the individual. what is important to say is that the opposite is true, because it is in those parts of the world where globalization has not reached that we have stagnation and poverty, for example in those parts of africa and asia where free and open trade is not practiced and where people are excluded from globalization. madam president, it is the lack of globalisation and of participation in the global economy that creates poor people, poor living conditions and undignified working environments. it is also easy to see, for where do we find the worst working environments and the worst social conditions? it's not in the developing countries, but in the countries of the lost world, countries that are excluded from the global economy. it may also be worth asking whether we would be better off if the poor world did not develop. would we be better off if the chinese or indian economies had not developed? the answer to that question is of course no for a number of reasons, partly because it is good that these countries are getting an increase in prosperity, and partly because these are our growing markets. europe is a continent that is very much alive to globalisation. our welfare, our prosperity and our high wages are based on having companies that can operate and grow worldwide with qualified production and qualified services. if we try to shut out globalization, we'll get hit. if we try to impose our rules on other countries, they suffer. it is free trade that historically and today creates growing prosperity and respect for people. we must make that a policy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by protesting against the fact that we are discussing the court of auditors' report without having had access to it beforehand, which is a major handicap for us. fortunately, we recognise almost everything from previous years; perhaps one could have read last year's report and made the same comments. these are the same problems and the same accounting shortcomings. we're told that the problems will continue. the court of auditors 'cannot guarantee' and so on, they say. it is a question of risky transactions, of deficiencies in the control systems and of amounts with errors, etc., etc. there is a road map for an internal control system, which i welcome, but most of it is as before, i.e. bad. i would point out, however, that the european institutions are audited by the european court of auditors, whereas national systems are of course audited by different national audit bodies. as in so many other areas, an 80/20 rule applies here too, i.e. one fifth of the cash flows can be controlled here and the remaining part nationally. it is extremely urgent that we come up with a proposal on how we can develop structured cooperation in this area, otherwise the court's task will continue to be practically impossible. the main problems we see are from the cap, the structural funds and the committee of the regions. there are grounds for abolishing the agricultural policy, abolishing the committee of the regions and abolishing the european economic and social committee. all this belongs to another period and has no function in today's eu. instead, the structural funds should start to go directly to the poorer member states of the eu. then all the problems we are talking about would largely disappear.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission said that the lisbon strategy was reflected in this work programme. it does in part, but not fully. you may recall that we had a discussion on the balance of the lisbon strategy. we in parliament said that social policy, social justice and social cohesion should not be seen as a residual item after growth and employment. i thought we had agreed that we would see social policy as an integral part of the lisbon process. this is not reflected in this work programme. the social dimension is very small. we have talked about how better regulation does not by definition mean less regulation. i can say that there is no legislation at all in the social field. there are three communications and a green paper, which i welcome, but there is no legislation at all. it is not that parliament has not made proposals. let me bring up a couple of them. the first concerns the new forms of employment, the so-called atypical forms of employment, which are growing like an avalanche, and which bring less security, less influence and probably more stress in the workplace. we have called for a directive to deal with these new forms of employment. secondly, mr barroso, you and i have been to a conference on restructuring. i understood it as if we agreed that in order to carry out the restructuring we had to do it in a way that involved the employees in the process. we have instruments at european level. we have the european works councils and we have asked parliament to audit the european works councils. we haven't seen any of this. in conclusion, i would just like to raise the question of a programme for the integration of the disabled, a non-discrimination programme, not only in the field of the labour market but everywhere. it also shines with its absence.
in writing. we have voted against the three daul proposals. they do, however, concern minor amendments to existing regulations. but we want to make clear our opposition in principle to a common organization of the market in seeds, hops and wine. the whole cap is an absurd creation and must be abolished.
in writing. the report on the social dimension of globalisation was voted down by the moderates today because it has the wrong basic view of globalisation. globalisation is an ongoing process of change that contributes to freedom and prosperity for more and more people. globalisation is a major driver of economic growth through free trade, increased international investment and the transfer of knowledge. together with democratic development, opportunities are created for developing countries to get out of poverty. the eu is a positive example of globalisation with the free movement of goods, services, people and capital. dictatorships perceive the transformative power of globalization as a threat to their own closed society. we moderates welcome globalisation and its role as a catalyst for democracy.
in writing. the resolution on the 'social dimension of globalisation' contains proposals which, in the resolution, include a policy to abolish eu export subsidies under the common agricultural policy and their family members, leading in most cases to greater eu power. we are opposed to this kind of three-pronged centralisation of the eu, which is being carried out without proper analysis or justification. a common eu policy on the 'social dimension of globalisation' cannot be formulated because the member states of the union are so different. this applies, among other things, to tax levels and social protection. instead of being forced to implement a top-down policy, eu countries should learn from each other through institutional competition. we believe that reforms must have popular support in every country. we also believe that the less developed countries should be given the right to regulate their imports of agricultural products for the time being. in view of the above, we choose to vote against the resolution in the final vote. we support the amendments, however, which call for a radical reform of the cap and the abolition of export subsidies. we also support the proposal that the eu must open up its market to goods from less developed countries.
the committee on international trade has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. chemicals are important, they're vital. they are part of our daily lives and a prerequisite for much of modern human activity. at the same time, there is a general concern about chemicals. what are they doing to us and our environment? some concern is justified. that is why i am glad that we are here to vote on a new european chemicals legislation, legislation which will enable us to know which chemicals pose a high risk to us and which do not, to ban chemicals we need to get rid of and to keep those we need. we have helped to make reach a priority, to give greater attention to the substances that pose a major threat. we have exemptions for things we know are harmless, such as cellulose and iron ore. this avoids red tape and unnecessary costs, but above all it means using our limited resources to achieve the greatest possible security. many goals are set in europe that we are not actually living up to. decisions in this chamber often promise a lot but sometimes hold back. the old chemical legislation was a prime example of this. it should have given us security but has accomplished almost nothing. sometimes failures are just embarrassing, but in chemical policy they can be life-threatening. that is why we need reach but a reach that can deliver on its promises. the great challenge for reach is to design a policy that does not create barriers to trade, that does not restrict the ability of other countries to sell their products to the european market. that would be wrong for the world around us but also for european consumers. it is unreasonable for us to be drawing up legislation here which is then declared illegal by the wto. i therefore hope that the house will take up the proposals to reduce trade barriers put forward by the committee on international trade. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the next breath they take is to accuse the whole of parliament of not caring about the environment. the main newspaper of the swedish social democrats even calls the leader of its own group in this parliament, martin schulz, a defector. i think it's cowardly, and it doesn't help the environment. instead, they should ask themselves why they're standing by. the overwhelming majority, however, from the bourgeois groups of the ppe-de and alde to the socialist group and now also the commission, are in agreement, and it is we who will be putting forward the proposal. i am pleased to have been part of the vote on a new, strong european chemicals legislation.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. chemicals in europe are regulated by very poor legislation for older chemicals, about 30 000, and relatively good legislation for new ones, about 3 000. the new proposal replaces 43 directives and national legislation in 25 countries, legislation which varies widely in control and quality, from quite poor to quite good. at the same time, it is 100 years since we closed national markets. for example, if you want to buy a toy for your child, you will find that some of the items are produced in your country, but most of them are imported. for all these reasons, new chemicals legislation represents a great opportunity for the environment, people and businesses. the committee on industry was the first committee to take decisions. we were able to lift the proposal for a chemicals directive from a dead and highly controversial product to an opportunity to actually reach a decision. i would like to thank the members of the committee for a very constructive and good cooperation. the committee on industry, which is responsible for industry, small businesses and research, has therefore, in accordance with its mandate, focused its work on changes paving the way for new, modern technologies, innovations and modern environmental technologies. in europe, environmentally-driven industries are growing at twice the rate of average industry and are an incredibly important tool for creating jobs and sustainable growth in a knowledge-based economy. however, for reach to be this engine for sustainable growth, the proposal needs to be simplified, strengthened and clarified. it needs to be simplified for the survival of small businesses, strengthened for a better environment and clarified because it is very vague on some points. for example, it may not be intended that each mineral load be analysed separately. ladies and gentlemen, we have four major issues in the eu: the budgetary plan is a mess, the proposal for a service directive is a mess, the draft constitutional treaty has a 'period of reflection'. after seven years of debate, we actually need a decision on the fourth important proposal, namely the one on european chemical legislation. ladies and gentlemen, uncertainty is very expensive. therefore, let us vote "yes" on thursday for the compromises that are on the table.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the reasons why we need a new chemicals legislation in europe have been well described. i shall therefore not go into that. within the alde group we have identified ten difficult political points. i would therefore like to describe some of them. the credible evaluations of the draft law have shown that there are particular problems for small enterprises in the volumes 1-10 tonnes. therefore, a simplified registration for small enterprises is needed for non-hazardous chemicals. at the same time, higher standards are needed for chemicals suspected of being dangerous. the compromise means that additional information is required for about 30% of substances, while a simplified registration is sufficient for the remaining substances. i think that's a good balance, maybe not perfect, but acceptable. the best must not be the enemy of the good when it comes to matters of such importance as this. it is often said that a good compromise is characterized by everyone being equally dissatisfied with the result. i think that in this case the opposite is true, that is to say that most people are reasonably satisfied with the result. the proposal also needs reinforcement. every individual consumer should have the right to know whether there is any hazardous chemical in the product he or she is buying. we therefore have in the compromise also rules on liability, or duty of care, which clearly belong to the companies. the alde group also proposes an amendment which clearly states that the burden of proof should be on the companies. an important issue concerns the authorization, i.e. the decision itself on the chemicals. a strong substitution principle for hazardous chemicals that can be replaced by less hazardous alternatives is important. the chemicals that need to be authorised are not just any chemicals, but those that can cause cancer, are harmful to reproduction and are enriched in the human body - in short, 'the worst of the worst'. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. so i'm glad this is included. furthermore, reach needs to be clarified. when the mining industry thinks that it has to test every truckload of ore that is taken out of the mine, something is wrong. the proposal contains similar grey areas and oddities that all three major political groups have been very much in agreement to remove. i would like to thank commissioners verheugen and dimas. i was a little worried when you brought this room paper, but i am very glad that the commission has now decided to support the main line of the three major groups in this parliament. i would also like to congratulate the united kingdom on the meritorious work it has done and is doing, as well as luxembourg on the work that this presidency has done before. the resolution which i hope we will vote on thursday in this house is very similar to the proposal put forward by the presidency. this means that we now have the opportunity both to stabilise the whole issue and to reach a decision which the alde group considers to be extremely important. we will support the compromise proposals on the table.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank mr sacconi for his work on reach and for the compromises he has made with us on authorization and so on. the attacks by nassauer, schulz, poettering and ek on reach are, on the other hand, a concessionary policy of the german chemical industry, which is destroying the environment and health and sabotaging workers and all small businesses who want to know what the chemicals they buy do and how they affect us. four years ago, the european parliament called for a stronger reach in the schörling report. for a year the environment committee has been working in an efficient and balanced way to protect public interests, health and the environment. now the whole parliament seems hypnotized by the lobbying tricks of the german chemical industry with nassauer as the first leader of the magic stick. how can you in the ppe-de group defend the attack on small businesses in the nassauer compromise, which means that there is no full data sharing and five years more time for them to pay for data that the large companies have? how can you defend the fact that the registration fee was removed from the volume and that there is a lack of clarity about the costs? wake up from the power of the magic wand and vote for the alternative compromise. how can you in the pse group defend the massive erosion of low-volume chemical testing? how can you defend vague criteria when even high-volume chemicals can be excluded from tests that detect cancer risks? how can we protect workers without information and clear requirements on the working environment? wake up from your enchantment and vote no to nassauer and yes to the alternative compromise. you liberals, break the spell and stand up for liberal politics. give consumers the opportunity and the knowledge to opt out of hazardous chemicals. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of consumers. it risks turning us all into guinea pigs by removing the explicit protection against consumer exposure to research chemicals. moreover, the compromise bases consumer protection on the need for a risk assessment on available data, but it was precisely this lack of data that reach was intended to address. that doesn't make your compromise. i therefore ask you to break the spell of the german chemical industry's false lure of growth. the only thing that will grow with a gutted reach is the cancer tumors in our citizens. it would take me an hour to list all the organizations that want a stronger reach. listen to them! you will only have the chance to vote for a stronger reach if you vote against the nassauer compromise and for the alternative proposal.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i speak for the overwhelming majority of my group. the left in the eu wants a strong reach. we want a reach that means we get to know the effects of chemicals even if the chemicals are made in lower volumes. we want a chemical policy which means that it is mandatory to phase out and ban the most dangerous chemicals. we want to see a clear responsibility for the products of the companies. this is beneficial both for public health and for the safety of employees. every serious analysis shows that the benefits of a functioning chemicals policy far outweigh the often greatly exaggerated costs of the same policy. reach should be taken for granted; companies should know what they are doing and take responsibility for what they are doing. in the committee on the environment, we have reached a generally good compromise. i deeply regret that the socialists and liberals have run away from that compromise and have chosen instead to make a deal with the right. the nassauer/sacconi compromise dramatically weakens what we wanted to achieve for reach to work. that means we won't know the effect of the chemicals. perhaps as much as 90 percent of the low-volume chemicals are excluded, and even chemicals in the higher volume range are excluded from real tests. this means that we will not be able to obtain the knowledge needed for a functioning chemicals policy. we consider this to be totally unacceptable. our group will never accept such a weakening of the chemical policy. we have therefore chosen to put forward the alternative proposal together with the green group. many members of this parliament have in practice acted as the lobbyists' extension arms for the chemical industry. i think that's been sad to see at times. to lena ek, i would like to say the following: you talk about the environment, but you have consistently worked at every opportunity to weaken this bill and make it worse. this is the most important environmental proposal we have dealt with in the eu system for many years. what you're representing is not environmental policy. i would like to say to the european commission: you've lost credibility on environmental issues. you're running away from your own proposal. you do not even stand up and defend what you yourself proposed as recently as a few years ago. i consider that weak. you have no credibility in environmental policy anymore. and finally, the apple of sacconis. if you got this apple from nassauer, i'd be careful. it's probably crammed full of dangerous chemicals and pesticides and probably rotted inside.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is regrettable that strong forces in this parliament are working hard to make chemical legislation as watered down as possible. reach is a cross-border issue, affecting both the environment and the internal market. the eu action is therefore justified. i believe that the information requirements for chemicals in lower volumes need to be strengthened. if this is not done, a large part of the purpose of reach is lost. i also support a strong substitution principle. sweden has already introduced this, and it is working very well. i believe that consumers should have the right to be informed about chemicals in goods. this is a prerequisite for them to make an active and informed choice. it is also important to clarify that it is the industry, not the authorities, that should be responsible for the evaluation and risk assessment of the registered chemicals. there is no contradiction between a strong reach and a well-functioning market. being at the forefront of this issue will provide a competitive advantage in the long term. i shall therefore vote against the compromise proposal drawn up by the pse, ppe and alde groups.
mr president, i would like to thank you. like other speakers, i welcome the fact that we are getting stricter legislation in this area. it is strange - to put it mildly - that this area has been so relatively free of regulations for so long. we know the risks of chemicals. every time we have encountered a serious problem, such as pcbs, ddt or freons, we have been taken completely by surprise. the damage has been extensive. so we have to be much more cautious. of course, companies must take responsibility for both information and the replacement of dangerous substances by less dangerous ones, where they exist. i would like to stress that the substitution principle has worked well in my own country for almost 15 years. i believe that this principle must be incorporated into the new legislation. i hope that as many colleagues as possible, including my own group, will agree with me on this point. the debate on reach has been complex. they say the devil is in the details. there are few places in the world where that's more true than right here. there are many difficult details which many of us members do not understand, and this has made it particularly difficult to find constructive solutions. the compromise reached in the 11th hour regarding registration is not perfect. it deviates in several respects from the line i would prefer to take. in view of the circumstances and what the alternative might be, namely a line where the primary responsibility for collecting information would be placed on the agency, i must nevertheless be in favour of the compromise. i repeat that i am not satisfied, but the most important thing is that we have a workable policy in this area so that we can gradually clean up the chemical jungle. finally, i would like to congratulate mr sacconi, who has done an excellent job for a very long time in complex circumstances.
mr president, i would like to thank you. most of the things we use contain a large number of chemicals without us knowing how these substances affect us. however, we know that cancer is becoming more common, allergies are becoming more common and many workplace injuries are caused by exposure to chemicals at work. on thursday we have the opportunity to change that by voting yes to safe chemicals legislation that will allow us to really detect and phase out the dangerous chemicals. i hope that we will be a majority that takes this opportunity to assert european competitiveness, but above all to put an end to the experiment with human health and the environment that the current legislation actually entails. like the consumer movement, the trade union movement and the environmental movement, we swedish social democrats will not support the compromise on registration between the pse, alde and ppe-de groups. it gives too many chemicals a pass and the testing requirements are too low to detect and phase out dangerous chemicals. we cannot therefore support the compromise. finally, i would like to thank guido sacconi for his excellent work on this matter.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the operation and decommissioning of nuclear power are activities that can have cross-border effects in europe. unlike most other activities, they must therefore be controlled at eu level. however, nuclear power is like other process industries; technological developments often lead to life extension. even reactor tanks may be replaced in the future. we therefore do not know for sure when a reactor must be decommissioned. the swedish reactors, which are now on average a quarter of a century old, are now being powered up considerably. the remaining lifespan is therefore assumed to be significant. it is clear that a winding-up entails costs and that it requires the provision of funds to meet these costs. in my home country of sweden, where about half of all electricity comes from nuclear reactors, this financing has been addressed from the outset. i think we can assume that all democratic countries have done the same. detailed and bureaucratic instructions for managing this process are unnecessary. the need for technocrats in brussels to be guardians of experienced nuclear experts in the member states seems almost ridiculous. the governments and authorities of the member states are under democratic control and cannot expose their citizens to risks. it is clear, however, that the member states which have been subject to undemocratic, communist regimes are in a substantially different situation. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the measures in question are imputable to the state. it is a clear act of solidarity on the part of the richer member states to provide funds for this. but how much? the junilist considers that the amount of funding for bohunice v1 in slovakia should be set provisionally at the amount of eur 237 million proposed by the commission for the period 2007-2013, as the budgetary plan has not been adopted. we should therefore not commit ourselves to support from the community budget for the period after this.
the rapporteur. madam president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank minister beckett in particular for coming here today. climate change is one of the most serious threats we face. i want to emphasize that it can no longer be seen as an environmental problem. a warmer climate is a more unstable climate, and it poses a threat to virtually every sector of our society, a threat that must be considered part of our security problem. it is a security threat to the eu and its member states but also, of course, to many poor countries in the tropics. while i say this, i would like to stress the importance of not seeing the climate issue as a problem and a burden. if we do the right things, we can reduce the risks to society in the future. if we do the right things, we can also open up opportunities for business and technology in a range of areas. there's a collaborative group called the climate group in the world, which is a bunch of big companies that are showing that in a fairly short period of time, it's possible to both reduce emissions and make a lot of money. i believe that the necessary transformation of energy and transport systems in our part of the world should be a major lever in the lisbon process and should be able to create new jobs and export opportunities. the parliament's report proposes a number of measures for the post-2012 strategy. we believe that the eu should continue to play a leading role in climate action at international level. the recent comments by mr beckett confirmed that this view is shared by the council. we need to do more in the short term to really live up to the requirements of the kyoto protocol. but we're only responsible for a fraction of the emissions, about 14 percent, today. so we need to bring in other players. it is very urgent that we should have constructive cooperation with the united states in the long term. we need to set long-term goals. we are demanding, or wanting, reductions of 30% by 2020 and 60% to 80% by 2050. it is, moreover, a constant demand from the business community that it needs long-term rules of the game. the situation of the developing countries is of course of the utmost importance. for them, energy is first and foremost a matter of growth and development, but they do not need to repeat our mistakes. we need strategic partnerships, not least with the major developing countries, to stimulate technological leaps and investments in the best possible technology. what has been started in this area by the commission's agreement with china is of course very good, but it must be scaled up and made much, much bigger. consider that china is starting two new coal-fired power plants every month! we need to invest more in research and development. it is a fact today that governments around the world are spending less as a percentage of gdp on energy research than they did 30 years ago. it's completely incomprehensible to me. i often compare this to the apollo project. if the americans could put a man on the moon within ten years, we should be able to do something similar with massive research and development efforts in terms of a breakthrough for new technologies. we must take strong action at home to gain credibility in politics. we must stimulate energy conservation, as has already been stressed on several occasions. this means that the building directive, for example, should be extended and made more ambitious. the transport sector is a very critical area. we welcome the inclusion of shipping and aviation in climate policy. we are in favour of rapid action to make rail transport more efficient. we believe that we must draw the right conclusions from the difficulties of reducing emissions from road transport. we therefore need and propose ambitious and binding rules on co2 emissions from new vehicles. we need to help new technologies - and they exist - to come to market. there are, however, rows of obstacles. one of them, of course, is that we are still subsidizing conventional, i.e., fossil-based, technology. we need to expand emissions trading, but we must of course make sure that allocation is not as ambitious as it was last year. instead, we must lower the ceiling step by step. we must invite other players to participate in this, so that we do not become the only market in europe. the majority of the measures proposed in the report are aimed at firms and producers. we also believe that we must involve citizens more actively. we all have lifestyles that affect our development. we have an idea to consider in the long term some form of emissions trading on an individual level. perhaps this is not possible in practice, but a first step should be to increase the knowledge of the carbon content of everything we buy and transport. we in parliament and in the european institutions should of course live as we teach. we should make sure that our buildings and our transport are as low-carbon as possible. there is much to be done in this area. in conclusion, i would like to wish both the commission and the council good luck in montreal. ensure that the eu can continue to play a leading role and drive international climate action towards positive results.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it was pleasing to hear commissioner dimas at the international energy conference in beijing the other day expressing his support for parliament's ambition of 25 per cent renewable energy by 2020, and commissioner dimas also saying that renewable energy is a cornerstone for overcoming problems such as climate change, poverty and general economic development. however, if we are to create a market for renewable energy, the costs of today's unsustainable reliance on fossil fuels must be clearly demonstrated. it is not enough to show the effects of these enormous emissions on the environment and public health, they must also be expressed in terms of euros and cents. europe has already embarked on a market-driven system of emission allowances. the air transport part of the system is certainly being discussed, but i would also like to see maritime transport and, above all, land transport. it is only when we see clearly the costs of carbon dioxide emissions from this sector that we will really boost both the demand and the supply of renewable energy sources. my first question is therefore whether and when the commission intends to include the transport sector in the european emissions trading scheme. my second question concerns the share of renewable energy sources. we want to increase them, but they must also be used. when will the commission propose to replace the so-called 'auto-oil' directive with a minimum 10% blend of ethanol in motor fuel?
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank mr anders wijkman for a balanced report on an important issue. i would like to stress that it is difficult to see today that europe will achieve the kyoto targets. they are very demanding and the policies currently being pursued do not seem to be able to achieve them in the first place. one reason for this is that the requirements of modern environmental policy are largely ignored in energy policy. given the conditions we have, we will not be able to meet the kyoto targets by relying on renewable fuels. they will grow up and play a bigger role, but they will not solve the problems. we cannot achieve the kyoto targets by regulating the economy or by cutting costs, because that would be contrary to the aim of creating the conditions for a better economy that takes better account of environmental requirements. we cannot solve the problems by slowing down economic development, but we must have an environmental policy which is compatible with a consistent and credible energy policy. then we must also look at the basis of our energy supply. oil and gas is not the way of the future. nevertheless, we see that it is primarily the use of oil and gas that increases as nuclear power is phased out, with increasing carbon dioxide emissions as a consequence. nuclear power generation in europe represents 50% of co2 emissions in the current energy mix. nuclear power generation in europe reduces co2 emissions equivalent to those from passenger cars. they show the size of the numbers we're talking about. nuclear power cannot be ignored in this case. nuclear power will not solve the environmental problems, but you cannot solve the problems of our environment and the kyoto targets by ignoring nuclear power. it is therefore an important task for this parliament and also for the member states to pursue a credible energy policy which does not aim at phasing out nuclear power and replacing it with oil and gas, but at ensuring that nuclear power can play a significant role in the balance of energy policy that is needed.
rapporteur. – mr president, i wish to add the following text to the end of paragraph 24 after the words ‘blending ratios’: ‘examining the environmental effectiveness of requiring 10% biofuel blends in transport fuels’.
in writing. we have voted against the report as a whole, because we believe that the commission's proposal is better. it is appropriate to inform air passengers of the air carrier operating a particular flight in order to enable them to make well-informed decisions from, inter alia, a safety perspective. we support the commission's proposal that member states collect security information to share with the commission and the other member states, but we oppose the parliament's proposal to introduce a community list instead and thus centralise the administration.
in writing. we voted against amendments nos 5 and 12 on an increase in the amount of funding for the decommissioning of the bohunice v1 nuclear power plant, as we believe that the budgetary framework for 2007-2013 should not be exceeded. of course, the decommissioning of nuclear power plants must be carried out in an environmentally and safely manner.
in writing. we support the eu's nordic cooperation, the so-called northern dimension, but believe that cooperation must be based on intergovernmental cooperation, strictly limited and focused on concrete results. environmental issues, nuclear safety and the fight against international crime should be given priority. we support the proposal that the eu should develop cooperation with regional organisations, including the nordic council. nordic cooperation can serve as a model for the eu, as it shows how free movement can be promoted and encouraged without a large-scale supranational bureaucracy. but for the reasons stated above, we vote in favour of the report.
in writing. global climate change is a major problem which we believe there is good reason to address at international level. the wijkman report has many merits. the junilists, however, reiterate their position that the european parliament should not take over the foreign policy of the member states by inviting third countries which have not yet ratified the kyoto protocol to do so. it is also regrettable that the report contains a number of calls to member states which should be dealt with at national level. these include proposals for common eu-wide speed limits, traffic charges, tax incentives, the development of rail transport and public transport in general. we are also critical of eu initiatives to make citizens aware of the climate impact of excessive consumption and production. this can of course be dealt with at national level. we have voted against the report as a whole, but have supported individual amendments, which we believe will improve the report.
in writing. we are in favour of a minimum level of carbon tax within the eu. but we believe that such a decision must be taken by the council unanimously, not by majority vote. taxation will continue to be levied at national level and not by the union.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the iranian regime is preventing any opposition from entering the country. human rights are being violated, people are being barbarously sentenced to death by hanging, and so on. the list of crimes of the regime can be made long, but this is apparently not enough for this regime. now the president of iran has made some terrible statements about another country. he's been talking about wiping out the state of israel. this is of course totally unacceptable and must be condemned by all. i take it that we are a united parliament in condemning this statement, as well as the human rights violations of the iranian regime. there is a risk that the president's statement will further complicate the work for peace in the middle east. we must also demand at the same time that the state of israel comply with the un security council resolutions, that israel immediately leave the occupied territories, that israel take up its responsibility for a two-state solution and thereby finally accept an independent palestinian state with east jerusalem as its capital. in this context we must also criticise the building by the state of israel of a wall in the palestinian territories, a wall which prevents farmers from reaching their fields, a wall which separates pupils from their schools, a wall which prevents the sick from reaching hospitals, etc. this wall must go, too.
i want to thank the council for their response. the problem with that answer is that it means that the eu has concluded a fisheries agreement which means that the eu will fish in the waters of western sahara. it's a country illegally occupied by morocco. none of the eu member states recognises the sovereignty of morocco over western sahara. it doesn't help how elegantly you phrase this. in fact, you have concluded or are about to conclude an agreement which indirectly accepts morocco's sovereignty over western sahara by including in the agreement negotiations on the natural resources of the occupied country. i think this is deeply inconsistent and immoral. i wonder, therefore, whether there is not a lack of consistency in the council's policy in this area.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. this commission proposal for a directive is not a real success. it can be said that everyone, from the animal welfare workers to the hunters, is dissatisfied with the content. in our group we share the criticisms that have been made. last but not least, it is obvious that this is not based on the latest scientific findings available. that is what this type of directive should do. it is therefore time to withdraw the proposal and start again from the beginning. as we see it, it is a question of balancing the proposal. animal welfare must be a priority, which requires considerable improvements in the proposal. however, when this is regulated, it is important that hunting rules in the member states are not unnecessarily regulated beyond what is necessary to protect animals from suffering. it will remain essentially a national issue. we hope that the commission will come back with a new proposal. we thank the rapporteur for his work and will vote for the report as it stands.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission's proposal on trap traps is extremely flawed. the proposal includes testing traps to strict standards, special training for trappers and the exceptional use of homemade traps. if this proposal is adopted by the european parliament, it will make trapping practically impossible in the nordic countries. it is gratifying that the committee on the environment rejected the commission's proposal. hunting matters should be decided at national or local level, not in brussels. i would draw the attention of members to the fact that the committee on legal affairs has delivered an opinion on the legal basis of the proposal. this opinion has been incorporated into the report of the committee on the environment and recommends that article 175 should be the legal basis of the proposal. this article concerns the union's environmental policy. however, animal welfare for wildlife is not part of eu environmental policy and is not even within eu competence. if article 175 is the legal basis, there is a risk that more and more cases like this will be considered as eu matters and handled at eu level. i agree with the rapporteur, mr scheele, that the commission's proposal should be rejected. however, mr scheele's view is that the proposal does not go far enough. i'm of the opposite opinion. of course, rules are needed, including on trapping, to ensure, among other things, the protection of animals. however, these rules are to be established by the member states and not by brussels.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i understand that this proposal is likely to be rejected tomorrow. this is partly because strong forces in this parliament seem to want to regulate in detail and almost prevent trap-trapping as such. it almost seems as if the ultimate goal is to eliminate trapping in europe. for these people, this proposal is simply not far enough. although often described as environmentally friendly, the requirements they set are often anything but. the fact that trap-trapping is an important part of wildlife and environmental conservation is ignored. i can give you an example of what i heard the other day, namely that seabird species depend on the capture in finland of, for example, marsupials that are not found in the natural fauna but have been introduced. the commission's proposal is not too restrictive in my view. on the contrary, it goes too far. the commission is also trying to extend its powers to issues which the member states actually handle best. i have two arguments which i hope the commission will take into account in any future proposals. firstly, i think we should stick to the existing international agreements and not try to build on them in a way that risks creating new barriers to trade. it is something that ultimately affects only individual traders and hunters and creates problems. i also think that it would have been sufficient to require the member states to implement parts of this agreement themselves, rather than developing it on the basis of the commission. secondly, this proposal contains a lot of red tape which could be eliminated. member states such as sweden have well-functioning systems that involve testing all traps. in order to avoid bureaucracy, it should have been possible to approve the results of tests already carried out by the various traps. i hope that the commission will take up these arguments and not just listen to the arguments of those who want to prevent trapping.
member of the commission. mr president, the rapporteur mr romeva i rueda should again be commended for putting together a report that challenges member states to attain better, more stringent, harmonised controls on arms exports. whilst the report's primary focus is on stimulating improvement in european practice, it also recognises the eu's potential to stimulate best practice in the european neighbourhood and in the wider world. it advocates an international arms trade treaty. the commission strongly supports opening negotiations on a legally binding arms trade treaty. we believe this would be of great value, not least in reducing the spread of illicit small arms and light weapons, which help fuel human insecurity, crime and conflict around the world. this is an area where the commission does not take the lead but where we are fully associated under the cfsp. the commission is regularly involved, with other international organisations and ngos, in dealing with the consequences of inappropriate or illegal arms sales. we are also contributing, through implementing specific projects, to reducing destabilising accumulations of weapons around the world. as the report points out, around half a million people die each year as a result of small arms violence. in the face of these sobering statistics we cannot be complacent. turning to the second part – the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction – i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr kristovskis, on this very important work. it is now two years since the adoption of the eu strategy against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. the non-proliferation regime is seriously challenged. the risk of terrorists acquiring weapons of mass destruction is considered by many a very serious threat. the european union is defining its budgetary priorities for the coming years. all of this makes the report not only important but also very timely. the area is not new to the commission. as mentioned in the report, the commission has long been engaged in cooperative assistance programmes to reduce the risks associated with wmd-related materials, equipment and technologies, particularly in the area of the former soviet union. the commission has also gained experience by implementing eu joint actions on non-proliferation in russia under the cfsp framework. these actions constitute the core of the commission's contribution so far to the g8 global partnership against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. i, along with the rapporteur and the honourable members of parliament, very much regret that the negotiations on non-proliferation in new york were not very successful. this does not send a good signal to countries like iran. the eu strategy calls for the creation of a specific community budget line in this domain. the commission has responded to this call by inserting important non-proliferation objectives in its october 2004 proposal for the stability instrument. this and subsequent proposals are under consideration here and in the council. a positive outcome to these negotiations is essential. while the overall financial issues are being discussed, i would like to express my appreciation to parliament for enabling, in agreement with the council, the commission to implement a series of pilot projects in this area. they help to define how community instruments might best contribute to strengthening eu non-proliferation assistance. in early december a high-level interparliamentary conference will take place in brussels, where a series of independent studies on the way ahead will be presented and debated. i am grateful for the excellent cooperation with parliament in organising this event. we hope to see many parliamentarians present on that occasion. as requested in the report, the commission stands ready to provide further information to parliament on past and ongoing community programmes supporting wmd non-proliferation and disarmament goals. it goes without saying that the commission looks forward to continued good cooperation with the council and parliament in support of these overall objectives. let me now turn to defence procurement. the role of the european parliament in such a sensitive debate is crucial, and i am glad that the commission will now be able to take parliament's contribution into account. as you know, in the next few weeks the commission will adopt a communication on the results of the public consultation that has taken place over the last few months. it is very important that this communication adequately reflects the position taken by parliament. i warmly thank, on behalf of commissioner mccreevy, all those who made this possible, in particular mr wuermeling, mrs beer and mr hökmark, who did a remarkable job in their respective committees. the commission, which was urged back in 2002 by the european parliament to take initiatives in this field, is particularly happy with the content of this house's contribution. the ultimate objective of the commission in this field is to open up defence markets, which are today, as the rapporteur said, highly fragmented, and to increase the efficiency of public spending by encouraging competition and transparency in these markets. this should benefit both buyers and taxpayers but also the european defence industry, which is suffering from a market structure which prevents it from competing in the global market place. the public debate carried out over the last few months and the various contributions received show that the majority of the stakeholders share the same objective. even member states now seem convinced that something has to be done quickly in order to move things forward. the current negotiations within the european defence agency on a code of conduct clearly show the political will to put an end to a situation that is unanimously considered unsatisfactory. the commission is, therefore, ready to play its part in this process. in particular, it could clear up those issues where the consultation has shown that different interpretations of the existing rules have led to differences in implementation. this could be done easily and quickly, by means of an interpretative communication, under the community's and the commission's sole responsibility. but also – and perhaps more importantly – it could propose new, more flexible rules for the procurement of defence material, rules which better suit the specific nature of this material. this would be neither quick nor easy. it would require a new legislative proposal. at this stage, a specific directive on defence procurement seems to be, therefore, the most appropriate legal instrument, which could address all the important issues that national authorities need to take into account when they procure defence material, such as security of supply, confidentiality or particular urgency. the commission will carry out the necessary preliminary assessments and consultations and the european parliament will be closely involved in this process. i thank you very much for your support and for your three very important reports.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, i have to say that i am very pleased. i shall speak about defence procurement and i would like to thank mr wuermeling for his report on this subject. i think it is important to stress that defence procurement plays a crucial role in enabling europe to be part of the technological and military leadership. however, it is also crucial for us to play a role in research and development in this area. that means we need to have large companies that can operate internationally and produce the best products. it is about getting better value for money, but it is also about being involved in developing military technology that enables europe to assert itself in security policy and in cooperation with other parts of the world. a fundamental question is how we can have the industrial capacity to be at the forefront of the development of modern technology. europe's problem is that we have a fragmented market because of historically different security interests. with declining purchasing, lower defence spending and, it is important to remember, a sharp increase in the need for research and development, europe is in a delicate position if we are to be able to keep up with developments in the united states and elsewhere. one of the more crucial tasks will therefore be to ensure that, in the type of defence procurement covered by article 296 of the treaty, we can have increased cooperation in the area of procurement but also in the area of open competition among producers. if we do not succeed in this, we will not be able to compete and develop the most advanced defence equipment. the most advanced defence equipment is covered by article 296, which allows member states to derogate. in order to change this situation, the first step is to have a common code of conduct and, in the longer term, a directive. however, it is important that this work be started, otherwise the foundations of the european defence industry will be eroded.
mr president, i would like to thank you. wuermeling argues in his report that it is not a question of foreign, security or defence policy in general but only of the procurement of goods and services, but of course there is a link between defence procurement and defence policy. a common market for defence procurement is a further step in the military build-up, which is being eagerly advocated by the european defence industry, alongside the establishment of the european defence agency. the rapporteur argues for harmonisation and standardisation in line with accepted nato standards, under the pretext of greater economic efficiency and a reduction in the burden on european taxpayers. if this is not a contribution to the defence policy debate, i wonder what it is. it is clear to me that this is an extended, intensified militarization. i could say, in the words of george orwell, that war has become peace. instead of talking about increasing resources for research and development of new weapons, the eu - which i believe the eu must do - and the member states should invest in research on peace and conflict resolution. it is through disarmament and demilitarisation that we build peace, not through further militarisation and weapons.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would just like to draw the bureau's attention to one thing. at the beginning of this week i discovered my name on 18 amendments which i had not seen and had certainly not signed. i also did not share the view expressed in those amendments. i hope this will not happen again. it was a very difficult task for me to explain that i did not support these amendments at all.
, for the alde group i can say that the line of work that we in the alde group have followed, to strengthen the environment, to clarify the ambiguities that exist and to simplify for small businesses, has won a very strong victory. we shall therefore vote in favour. i would like to thank first of all guido sacconi for his extremely patient work, but also the commission and the presidency, who unfortunately are not here. we now have the opportunity to make a very strong legislation.
, for the gue-ngl group with this vote we have a weak reach, too weak a reach, with the compromise on registration. however, we have received a good decision on the issue of authorization. we'd rather have a weak reach than no reach. we shall therefore vote in favour with a lack of enthusiasm. (applause) i would like to thank you.
, for the greens/efa group since all the other groups are declaring their views, we understand that it was a complicated vote. however, it has now been declared that the only positive aspect, the authorization, will be undermined in the council. in addition, it was undermined by certain exceptions during the vote. this means that a large majority of my group cannot accept reach in its present form.
in writing. junilista is committed to limiting eu cooperation to genuinely crossborder issues. these include the internal market and many environmental issues. we welcome a strong chemicals directive which clarifies the responsibilities of industry for the chemicals it imports. we are convinced that in the long term it is a competitive advantage for swedish and european industry to be at the forefront of this issue. we have therefore chosen to oppose the compromises supported by the majority of the european parliament. we shall vote in favour of the whole of the proposal, because otherwise the commission may withdraw the proposal for a directive. we believe that even low-volume substances should be subject to basic control requirements. both the swedish chemicals agency and the swedish government have stressed the need to include these in reach. we support a strong substitution principle and would like to emphasise that the responsibility for collecting and analysing information on imported chemicals lies primarily with industry, not with public authorities. we are of course in favour of the exemption of natural substances from the forestry and mining industries from reach. the backbone of sweden's economy, forestry and mining, will not be affected by the legislative proposal. we are also critical of the amendments which advocate the creation of a giant chemical authority within the eu. we have relied on the national authorities to be able to carry out the relevant checks.
in writing. junilista is committed to limiting eu cooperation to genuinely crossborder issues. these include the internal market and many environmental issues. i welcome the chemicals directive, which clarifies the responsibilities of industry for the chemicals it imports. i have voted in favour of the motion as a whole. i support a strong substitution principle. i also support the idea of exempting natural substances from the forestry and mining industries from reach. the backbone of sweden's economy, forestry and mining, will not be affected by the legislative proposal. priority should be given to the collection of information on chemicals. the first priority is to collect and analyse data on high-volume chemicals. the chemical legislation must be effective, not just a paper trail. i am critical of the amendments which advocate the creation of a giant chemical authority within the eu. i have full confidence that the national authorities are essentially capable of carrying out the relevant checks.
in writing. the report is about creating a binding code of conduct for the export of war material within the eu framework. it is proposed that a new eu body be set up to control member states' exports. whatever the view on principle, there is reason to question whether this leads to a more restrictive policy, which is the aim. at the same time, the european defence agency is working to further coordinate and liberalise the export policies of the member states. we oppose the creation of an eu body to control the export of war material. we also do not think that the european defence agency is justified. the size of a country's exports of war material should be decided by each country's national parliament. sweden should therefore be entitled to continue to pursue a restrictive export policy. in view of the above, we shall vote against the report in the final vote.
in writing. we believe that the united nations is best placed - given its experience, knowledge and global reach - to drive global disarmament and ensure compliance with the non-proliferation treaty. on this basis, we are voting against the creation of an eu agency for conversion and disarmament. we shall also vote against the report in the final vote. but we support the call for nuclear disarmament and the objective of a nuclear-free zone in europe. the requirements to limit the proliferation of nuclear weapons should lead in the long term to the elimination of all nuclear weapons.
in writing. we swedish social democrats have voted in favour of the report because we think it is important to have clear and unambiguous rules for defence procurement. however, there are some words in the report which, in their broadest interpretation, could be taken to mean a future common defence. we are against a common european military defence and do not support proposals to create one. we want to see the eu strengthen its capacity to detect and prevent conflicts and manage crises early, primarily through political, diplomatic and economic means.
in writing. article 296 of the ec treaty provides for exemptions from the rules on the free movement of goods for trade in and the manufacture of military equipment. part of this report calls for tightening and clarifying the types of equipment and services to which article 296 should not apply. the junilista considers the completion of the internal market to be a very important issue which should be given priority. however, the report shows that the changes to the eu acquis proposed are largely aimed at deepening military cooperation within the union, taking another step towards a common foreign and security policy. it is the junilist's view that foreign and security policy is a national issue, which should not be decided at eu level. that is why we are voting against this report.
, in writing. this report contains a wide range of proposals for eu action to help combat poverty in africa. the european union is not, however, a comprehensive development policy. today, the eu is giving resources with one hand, to take with the other. this is not credible behavior. the first proposal should be for the eu to carry out a radical reorganization of its agricultural, fisheries and trade policies. unfortunately, there is no political will in this house to do so. the british presidency and the commission have put forward the priority of development issues in africa as a policy area. nevertheless, the council, the commission and the european parliament all defend the eu's fisheries agreements. these agreements are aimed primarily at safeguarding the eu's short-term economic interests and generate very limited resources for those who need them, namely poor fishermen in developing countries. it is essential to avoid fragmentation and duplication of aid. i do not, however, believe that the eu should play a leading role in the world. we do not need more aid agencies, but rather we should seek to concentrate our joint efforts within existing agencies. the eu's primary task should be to reform the union's destructive policies. if this is not done, the developing countries will never have a fair chance of achieving greater prosperity and development.
rapporteur. – mr president, before we start the debate i should like to ask you, on behalf of my group and in agreement with the other groups, to hold the debate but to postpone the vote. we agreed, for a number of reasons, to do that and i would ask you to give us that opportunity before i start my speech.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are now going to discuss a report which is quite unique to this parliament. for the first time, the european parliament has been invited to play an active part in shaping eu development policy. when the current policy was decided, parliament was not involved in any way. the current process, which aims at a tripartite agreement between the commission, the council and parliament, is therefore, from our point of view, a major step forward. today's report is parliament's response to the original draft policy statement and our contribution to the negotiations. since the adoption of the original development policy in 2000, our world has undergone a series of changes. there are therefore strong reasons for changing and designing a new policy. the agenda has changed, and cohesion, coordination, etc. have been given increasing prominence. i think it's perfectly fine. our report refers to the commitments to increase aid made by a number of member states, which will mean that the union's aid will increase substantially in the coming years. this is, of course, excellent. however, it is equally important to discuss quality as it is to discuss quantity. we are trying to do this in a constructive way in our report. the eu as a whole is the world's largest donor. however, the effectiveness and quality of aid so far have not been commensurate with the size of the aid, as commissioner michel himself pointed out a number of major shortcomings, not least in the coordination in the past. eu member states are poorly coordinated with each other, with the commission and with other donors. this means high transaction costs, a lot of duplication of work and difficulties for our partner countries. the new development policy which we are now discussing offers good prospects for progress in this area. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in addition to donor coordination and cohesion, our report highlights a number of substantive issues to which we wish to attach particular importance. these are democracy and human rights, action against corruption, the important role of civil society and also of national parliaments, the importance of strengthening the role of women in development work, the importance of paying greater attention to the importance of natural resources, i.e. forests, arable land, water resources and marine resources, not least for the poorest countries in the world. we also discuss the importance of health and education, an issue we have been debating for many years in parliament, and increased efforts to combat the hiv epidemic. finally, we mention in particular the major problems facing many countries in tropical areas because of the more unstable climate. i would like to thank my colleagues for a very good cooperation. as i see it, we have produced a kind of memorandum of understanding. we are particularly pleased, i think, that in the process we have managed, together with the commission and the council, to bring about a constructive debate in which we have tried, as far as possible, to define the specific role of the commission in the development context. the commission will not be like a 26th member state in terms of donors but will of course use its special powers, its special capacity, its neutrality and its multilateral character to push on and do some things better than others can do. in this process we have identified a number of areas where the commission, if i may put it that way, can make a difference and add value. finally, i would like to thank you for a good cooperation. i hope that in the coming weeks we will reach a final document and that we will eventually be able to return to this issue here in parliament and have a wider debate in which the council will also participate in order to discuss together how we can then best start implementing the new development policy and this policy statement.
madam president, i would like to thank you. the most important contribution the eu can make to the hong kong meeting is to pledge to remove its export subsidies for agriculture. it would provide development and livelihood opportunities for millions of people in the world's poorest countries. at first glance, the proposals made by the eu on agricultural policy seem quite good, but if you read the fine print, it turns out that this proposal from the eu side contains quite a lot of air. the biggest mistake the eu can make in the run-up to the hong kong negotiations and during the negotiations themselves is to link the agricultural reforms to the condition that the developing countries open up their service sectors. this is the kind of blackmail that could bring down the whole hong kong round. i believe that the demands of the third world to protect vital parts of their services sector from competition are fully legitimate in view of their own development.
madam president, i would like to thank you. there are many who are pessimistic about what the hong kong meeting can actually bring, but i am basically optimistic. we must succeed in reaching ambitious agreements in several of the areas we are negotiating. europe and the world cannot afford anything else. but for us to succeed, it's going to take a lot more than that from everyone involved. blaming each other, as we do today, has proved to be fruitless. it is particularly important that we achieve substantial liberalisations of trade in agricultural products. many members of this house tend to go against these very liberalisations, but they are wrong. both consumers and farmers in europe deserve access to a global market, and we need the pressure for change that liberalisation brings to strengthen our competitiveness. the agricultural negotiations are also - or perhaps above all - a moral issue. they are the basis for the development of many poor countries. it is therefore regrettable that it is precisely the agricultural negotiations which are hindering progress in the negotiations on industrial goods, but also on the trade in services, which is so important for europe. all those who say that commissioner mandelson has already gone too far and who think that we cannot liberalize agriculture further must realise that their policy has a high price, that it will cost europe - the world's largest trading partner - dearly if we do not get new market access. we must remember that it is not agriculture but the service sector which today accounts for 70 per cent of growth in europe. it is quite paradoxical that the country which refuses to give more in either the agricultural or the services negotiations is today the one with the largest global players in the services sector. they're the ones who should be the first to realize the need for success in hong kong. the politicians and the voluntary movements, like attack and others, who are trying to put the cart before the horse in the negotiations are doing so at the expense of the poor. less trade liberalisation and more quotas and tariffs or allowing developing countries to hide behind high protection walls is beneficial for the already privileged, but the people - the consumers in the poor countries - need investment. we must give them the same right to low tariffs and prices as consumers have here in europe. if we succeed in agreeing substantial trade liberalisation, european consumers will feel it in their wallets. if we fail, it will be a matter of life and death.
madam president, i would like to thank you. for many years the eu has had an unfair trade policy. it is time to listen to the needs of developing countries and to put an end to selfish trade policies. if you listen, you will hear that they are calling for an immediate end to export subsidies. if you listen to them, they say that our agricultural reforms are small, that they think our insistence on open trade in services is wrong. what the commissioner calls 'some sectors' is in fact a requirement for 93 out of 163 sectors to open up the market. what is 'benchmarking'? what benchmark is needed to push these countries down the poverty line? i don't even understand how the word "benchmarking" is used here. let them decide for themselves, it is right to give them police space! it's time to stop demanding retaliation and start giving, so i urge you, mandelson, to pick your best hong kong christmas spirit and enjoy giving without conditioning your gifts.
this resolution deals with a policy area which should be outside the eu's competence. the resolution stresses that sport organisations have a social significance and are important for creating tolerance, cooperation, teamwork and solidarity. this may be true, but why should the eu be concerned with this? there is no reason for the eu to create a budget line for development programmes and projects based on sport. nor is there any reason for the eu to set up programmes aimed at increasing the knowledge and experience of sports teachers in the field of development and sport. this is a national or purely regional issue. the resolution calls for the training of sports journalists with eu funds to help them avoid clichés, discriminatory language and racist expressions. it is important to work against racism and discrimination, but it is not necessary to take eu action for this type of programme. these are matters which each country must decide independently and in which the eu should have no say at all. the eu should work on genuinely crossborder issues which are not being dealt with satisfactorily by existing international organisations.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. this is about human rights the right to survive versus intellectual property rights the right to get paid for something you've produced. clearly, then, the right to life is more important than any other right. this is a first step in defending the right to life. the commission proposal is too weak and i think that parliament has made improvements to it, particularly as regards the possibility for ngos to use the directive. another improvement is that we are criticizing the need for compensation and how it should be defined - we need to criticize that - and that we are extending it to include countries which are not members of the wto, whose citizens' lives are as valuable as those of wto members. as far as adequate compensation is concerned, if you have no money, you have no adequate compensation, so there will be none, it must be clear. i hope that this will be done as soon as possible, because i do not think that this legislation is sufficient and the only way for us to know whether it is is to get it through quickly so that we can test it.
for the pse group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. since our shadow rapporteur, dan jørgensen, cannot be here today, i have the pleasure of speaking on behalf of the pse group. i would like to begin by thanking mr blokland for his excellent work. you have tabled many amendments which our group supports. the use of batteries is increasing and therefore it is particularly urgent to act now to ensure that the most environmentally friendly technology is used and that the most environmentally harmful batteries are banned and phased out. we therefore welcome the proposal before us, although we believe that the level of ambition should be higher than that proposed by the council. the use of the heavy metals mercury, cadmium and lead in batteries must be limited as far as possible. that is why parliament must tighten up the council's proposal now pending. cadmium, mercury and lead are already prohibited in materials and parts of vehicles placed on the market after 1 july 2003 and in new electrical and electronic equipment placed on the market after 1 july 2006, etc. it is therefore only natural that we now go ahead with the ban on the use of cadmium in batteries. it is of particular importance that the exemptions for cadmium in batteries and accumulators used in hand tools be amended to include a prohibition after a transitional period of four years. there are good alternatives to cadmium in these tools. i have this in my hand (sound of a hand tool) and it works -- which i hope you all hear -- perfectly. it's just to look closer here so you don't fall for what the lobbyists are trying to trick you into in the hallways. there are functional alternatives. they are made by several manufacturers, not only for private use but also heavy tools for professional use. don't think otherwise. just go to the manufacturers' websites and see for yourself. why would we be dumping a lot of cadmium into the air if we don't need to? why not insist on the use of the most environmentally friendly alternatives? a ban on cadmium in batteries in these tools would be a major environmental gain. in addition, it is important for european competitiveness that we stimulate the development of new technologies through legislation on environmentally friendly technologies when the time is right, and it is indeed now. we also think that the collection targets proposed by the council are too low. we want to raise them and we think, as does the rapporteur, that the legal basis for this proposal is article 175, because it is aimed at a better environment and nothing else.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you, mr blokland, for trying to improve this proposal. this is an environmental issue and article 175 is natural. it is also about consumers and the confidence they can have in the products they buy. that is why i want amendment no 38 on guaranteed capacity labelling to be introduced on all batteries. today i have these two with me. on this one (holding up a blue screwdriver), you couldn't tell from the packaging how long the batteries lasted, but you could on this one (holding up a red screwdriver). this (blue screwdriver) is nickel-cadmium, while this (red screwdriver) is nickel-metal hydride. this blue one can only pull this many screws (holds up a board of screws), each screw representing ten. the red nickel metal hydride managed all these screws - that's more than twice as many. but you don't know that when you buy this. here, bad, old-fashioned technology is sold to consumers, and they're being duped by corporations today. without a tag, they're even more deceiving. i'm not the only one who's done this test. swedish consumer organisations have looked at nickel-metal hydride batteries after 500 charges. so it's life expectancy and the economy. it turns out that they last on average more than twice as long after 500 charges. why should europe lag behind in terms of technology transfer? what kind of export market are we going to have with old-fashioned bad technology? it's time to dump nickel-cadmium, it's time to vote for amendment 54. the industry says it's necessary in these types of machines. the best machine on the market can handle 18 minutes and 20 seconds instead of 2 minutes and 45 seconds of maximum use. it is new battery technology that benefits consumers and is good for the environment, not old technology that worsens for consumers and the environment. 75 percent of all refined cadmium is actually used in batteries, which is a small fraction of the total amount of cadmium. but the rest of the cadmium use is not intentional, it's a side effect that we'll treat and eliminate by other means. now it's about batteries, and then it's gone.
for the ind/dem group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the junilista supports the proposal on the four freedoms of the internal market. the free movement of capital is fundamental to the proper functioning of the internal market. for this to work satisfactorily, a common regulatory framework is required. this must be designed in a simple way and must not undermine the possibility of institutional competition between member states. the extension of the deadlines in this report is welcome, as it will facilitate preparations for entry into force. we shall therefore vote in favour of the report. the commission's proposal for amendments, however, mentions that the european parliament has asked for an equal role for parliament and the council in monitoring the way the commission exercises its powers to implement the amendments. parliament is once again trying to extend its own power at the expense of the member states. the commission should not be a federal government and should be primarily supervised by the member states. it is unfortunate that parliament, in the interest of reaching an acceptable compromise with the council, has chosen to engage in an intra-institutional power struggle in this way. we shall therefore vote against amendments nos 1, 2, 4 and 11.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is a misunderstanding in this house to think that high tax rates provide social security. it's not. it is growing investment, new jobs and strong and growing tax revenues that create social security. in the country in europe with one of the highest corporate tax rates, germany, you get less tax revenue in relation to the economy than you get in, say, slovakia, where you have a low corporate tax rate but a flat tax rate. it is not the low-tax countries that receive new investment and new jobs that threaten security. i think that in a europe where we have 20 million unemployed there is reason to be self-critical of the way in which the policy has worked. the point is that a tax system that is clear, transparent and predictable creates good conditions for investment and new jobs. we see it in the countries that are growing the fastest in the european economy. having a common tax base and a common method of calculating it does not mean harmonizing taxes. on the contrary, it is good that each country can choose its corporate tax rate that best suits its circumstances. it's good we have competition. it is also very good that we have transparency so that we can see who de facto has the high taxes and who de facto has the low taxes. it is not as the former chancellor gerhard schröder in germany pointed out that some of the new member states are dumping their taxes. on the contrary, it is those countries with many loopholes and uneven and unpredictable tax systems that hinder small business and new investment. i therefore support this report and congratulate mr bersani on a job well done.
in writing. in all 18 reports, the rapporteur has proposed that the european parliament should be involved in the appointment and renewal of the executive directors of the various agencies. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the basis of the opinion of the european parliament. we have therefore voted against the reports.
in writing. the eu has an important role to play in strengthening democracy and human rights in its neighbourhood. enlargement contributes to this positive development. that is why we are voting in favour of the malmström report. but we are against the attempt to use the eu's neighbourhood and partnership instruments to strengthen and develop the common foreign and security policy. we also do not believe that the instruments should be used to extend the eu's sphere of interest to areas which cannot be described as its neighbourhood.
in writing. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has also called for the introduction of a new directive on the protection of the environment. the position of the committee on the environment sets out clear priorities and clarifies the objectives of the directive. the junilist supports eu action on cross-border environmental issues. emissions of heavy metals are one such area. we therefore voted in favour of this report and broadly support the position of the committee on the environment on this matter. we are, however, against individual amendments. we are, for example, critical of the european parliament's decision to set up public information campaigns on the collection and recycling of batteries and of its views on how these campaigns should be financed (amendment 33). we have full confidence in the ability of the member states to achieve the requirements of the directive on their own. the member state concerned shall decide whether information campaigns, research or other measures are necessary for this purpose.
in writing. we have voted against all the amendments because we do not think that the european parliament should have any say in how energy is saved in the member states. this is best handled by the member states themselves.
in writing. building issues in the autonomous community of valencia are not a matter for the european parliament or the european union in general. the reasoning of the report is that all political issues fall within the competence of the eu institutions. this means that the elected assemblies of the member states, various types of elected regional assemblies, with several local assemblies elected by the citizens, could be overrun. we shall vote against this report.
in writing. i believe that the eu should not interfere in how a country manages its detailed planning. but in this case, the green politicians of the country concerned have explicitly pleaded with me to vote in favour of this as their democracy is threatened. building owners bribe politicians and they ignore both legislation and democracy. they believe that the problem must be brought to the attention of the outside world in order to get a reaction from the establishment. that is why i am voting in favour of the opinion on the petition sent to parliament by 15 000 people.
the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has tabled an opinion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. democracy and freedom are not defended by restrictions on human rights. in totalitarian states, people are guilty until proven guilty. in a state of law, suspicion is the basis for restrictions of freedom. we're discussing a bill that allows for the surveillance of those the law claims to protect. at least do an independent impact assessment, and do it before the legislation comes into force. human rights are not something to be rushed and neglected. legislate honestly. don't pretend it's about terrorism when it's really about file sharing, census, taxes, trade and refugees. do not create new competition problems in europe. follow the harmonisation requirement of the data protection directive, follow article 95. the measure does not prevent terrorism. it risks damaging the eu's credibility if it is found to be contrary to the rule of law and the rights and freedoms of citizens. if the necessity of the measure cannot be demonstrated, the eu will force the member states to vote against their own constitutions, which include article 8 (2) of the council of europe convention. a constitutional crisis could arise. it is necessary to enshrine the rights and freedoms of the eu in the treaty before it goes too far. it's easy to get carried away with hatred for terrorists, i realize that. but to trample on liberty and rights is to give in to the assault on the rule of law, to abandon our values. preserve the right to privacy. don't make a big hole in our security. our european data protection is a european right to be proud of.
madam president, i would like to thank you. when the plenary votes tomorrow on a mini-directive on data retention, we will do so with an agreement with the council and the commission, in which parliament has a co-decision. citizens put the fight against crime and terrorism high on the list of what the eu must do. the citizens also want us to solve problems together, and we have succeeded in doing so. we have secured the privacy and human rights. in addition, the police in europe are receiving modern tools to combat crime, including organised crime, such as trafficking in women and children for prostitution, child pornography, drug trafficking and terrorism. i'm very pleased with that, so i want to thank everyone so much for a good cooperation. we're gonna get through this together. we're also going to control what everyone here is worried about, and we're going to do it together.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. the eu's foreign policy is based on the defence of peace, democracy, the rule of law and human rights, which is why we attach such great importance to the political part of the copenhagen criteria when negotiating with the new member states. here too, the eu has been very successful in spreading these values. of course, other countries are more difficult. although human rights are always on the table, it is difficult to achieve a dialogue. we have clauses, but parliament has, as you know, advocated that they should be made compulsory, that they should be activated. we cannot be satisfied with a vague protest when events such as those in tunisia occur, when fundamental human rights are grossly violated. tunisia is a country closely associated with the eu. the human rights dialogue with china and iran is going badly, we all know that. russia is not doing well either. today we have seen how our sakharov prize winners, the ladies from cuba, are not allowed to come here. i hope that the council and the commission will be able to strengthen the protests against the dictator in havana, who continues to howl all over the world. there is much more to be done in zimbabwe, belarus, burma, saudi arabia, etc. we know that the eu as a soft power is incredibly powerful. we are the only international actor that can really achieve great things if we are united in the defence of human rights and values. citizens around the world expect us to have a common foreign policy, to play a role on the international stage and to speak with one voice. this foreign policy, which takes the form of trade, aid, political and economic cooperation, must be guided at all times by respect for human rights. we as democracies have a responsibility to ensure that we fight injustice and spread democracy and human rights right into the villages of colombia, zimbabwe and north korea. this report is therefore an important and useful tool. i only hope that in the future it can become something more strategic, so that we have an even more coherent human rights policy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. a non-discriminatory system of tolling kilometres on european roads is important for environmental reasons but also for competition reasons. at the same time, it is important that the new 'euro vignette' takes account of the different conditions prevailing in europe, for example in the peripheral member states. it is therefore good that this compromise firstly takes account of different geographical locations, secondly enables socioeconomically fair pricing of infrastructure and thirdly makes it possible to differentiate the tariffs between different euro classes. this is important in countries where long distances and slow traffic make it impossible to achieve full cost recovery. i therefore think that the compromise is acceptable, since it takes account of the countries in europe's outer circle. thank you, madam president, and thank you all for a long and good job.
member of the commission. madam president, the message from nearly all the honourable members is loud and clear and makes sense. i am grateful for the constructive and very positive involvement of nearly all of you. i can assure you that the commission welcomes the amendments proposed by your rapporteur. that said, i wish to make a few comments about your remarks. firstly, mr mulder wants to be kept informed about the whole project. i am sure the commission will be able to do that. he is very negative about how things will progress during the next few days. let us hope things will progress well. in any case, the future for the financial perspectives looks positive. mrs mcavan made some very inspiring remarks. however, i wish to correct her on one issue concerning klm. i think i know that airline a little better than her. even if there were a subsidy for the runway, it would never be given to an airline but to the airport. i am not sure whether that is the case, but i wanted to make that remark. nearly everyone commented on the sum of eur 40 million for 2006. some were more enthusiastic about the amount of money than others. however, that is the amount available. what happens after 2006? that is when the real work will begin, because that is when we have to fulfil our promises to those countries. i can assure you that when, and only when, an agreement is reached on the financial perspectives, the commission plans to allocate a figure of eur 190 million in addition to the existing development budget.
junilista welcomes the reform of the eu sugar sector and considers it positive that this sector is also adapted to the market. this should have happened sooner. we are critical of the eu's export subsidies to domestic sugar growers and are positive that trade in sugar will be able to take place under fairer conditions in the future. without going into the budgetary details, i would stress that substantial financial support alone will not solve the problems that the reform of the sugar sector may bring to the acp countries. financial support does not guarantee the long-term conversion and restructuring of acp sugar sectors and industries. i also call for clearer strategies and priorities for the specific use of financial resources. otherwise, there is a very real risk that we are merely offering the acp countries a form of artificial respiration and that the aid provided by the eu will not have the intended effect.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my time is short and my focus will therefore be on the agreement reached on eu aid policy on the subject of the european consensus. unlike the budget debate and the lack of leadership there, i can be unequivocally positive about this agreement and the process that has led to it. the dialogue between the commission, the council and parliament in the autumn was both positive and constructive. i thank mr barroso and mr alexander for their positive comments here today and would like to thank both commissioner michel and minister benn for what i think is a very good cooperation. the eu is, as has already been said here today, the world's largest single donor of aid. however, the effectiveness and quality of aid have so far not been commensurate with its size. the eu member states are poorly coordinated, both among themselves and with the commission. this means high transaction costs, duplication of work and great difficulties for many of our partner countries. the new development policy, now in two parts addressing the specific work of the eu and the commission, will bring major progress in this area. better donor coordination, better coherence, better efficiency are therefore the cornerstones of this policy. we have also reached agreement on defining the specific role of the commission in development cooperation, which i believe will be very important. on the substantive issues, the fight against poverty remains a high priority. we are also giving greater attention to issues such as democracy and human rights, the importance of sustainable use of natural resources, the role of women in development work, etc. in conclusion, i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on development for the very good cooperation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is ironic that the sakharov prize for transparency and human rights is awarded by parliament immediately after the 'surveillance directive' was voted. on the same day that we build walls against the freedom of our citizens, we give credit to those who break down those walls in the outside world. this directive, according to the spin doctors, is supposed to free us from murder and terror and organised crime, but in reality it is rather freeing us from the ideal of democracy. the trick of democracy is that you should be able to communicate with whoever you want, whenever you want, without worrying about those communications. proponents argue that this surveillance is necessary for the prosecution of the most serious crimes, but they are wrong. this applies to practically all offences covered by the european arrest warrant, i.e. hunting also of poachers. that is why the big media companies are now cheering this new directive. they don't have to change technology to more modern technology that would save money for consumers, but keep the old. the directive requires data to be stored for between 6 and 24 months, and 80 per cent of all e-mails are so-called spam. this is a junk directive that stores junk mail, which is hardly the most effective way to fight organized crime. it costs money and takes resources away from more effective measures. it also makes it easier for professional criminals to avoid being caught in the net. in the united states, the police freeze data. it's much more effective and simple and only affects people who are concrete suspects of a crime. where were you on march 17th? who did you meet? who were you sitting next to? you sat next to a known felon? how do you prove you didn't have contact? how do you know that the people you regularly e-mail are not large-scale felt-sharers who are being hunted by the police? how do you prove that the copyrighted material you sent wasn't copyrighted? do you know the hidden sides of the people you communicate with? in the future, too, the rule of law will exist and people will not usually be innocently convicted, but may be cleared of suspicion only after abusive interrogations and house searches. the greens voted against this directive.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the green amendment rejecting the proposed directive on data retention. i think the proposal is too far-reaching in terms of personal privacy, ineffective - it will not lead to an improved fight against terrorism - and it has been pushed through with frightening speed in a way that does not bode well for the future. i therefore voted against the final vote on the proposal.
in writing. in principle, the junilists believe that a decision of this magnitude for the citizens should not be taken by qualified majority. instead, the procedure should be directly submitted to national parliaments and decisions taken at intergovernmental level by the council acting unanimously in accordance with police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. we also believe that the proposal goes far beyond the expected benefits. member states should facilitate the exchange of information between themselves in order to combat terrorism and organised crime more effectively. however, such cooperation does not require harmonisation at eu level for the storage of this huge amount of data. the proposal also raises considerable concerns about civil liberties and rights, where citizens are generally suspected. the junilist does not want to contribute to the creation of a european control society. if a member state wishes to introduce mandatory data retention, it should do so only after a proper national debate with decisions in national parliaments. to sneak such a sweeping legislation into the back room is highly unreasonable from a democratic point of view.
in writing. good laws are not made under time pressure and with insufficient decision-making. i am very critical of the way the process around the proposal for a decision on the storage of traffic data has been handled. it is a difficult question to answer, one that requires thought and a solid factual basis - both in terms of the privacy aspect, the technical implications and the real costs to telecom operators and thus consumers. we owe it to the citizens of europe. there is no doubt that traffic data can be of value in various criminal investigations. but that does not mean that we should give the go-ahead for a major stockpiling. traffic data should be used, but only in the context of very serious and well-defined crimes and following court decisions. the harmonization of eu rules is desirable, but far more restrictive than today's decision. the proposal to amend the directive adopted by parliament's committee on civil liberties and human rights was a step in the right direction. but this proposal was voted in favour of proposals that go too far. that is why i voted against the proposal for a directive. i would have liked to see a decision with shorter retention times, better privacy protection, the exclusion of e-mail and the use of traffic data only for certain serious and well-defined crimes.
in writing. good laws are not made under time pressure and with insufficient decision-making. i am very critical of the way in which the process surrounding the proposal for a decision on the storage of traffic data has been handled. it is a difficult question to decide, one that requires thought and solid factual support. we politicians owe it to the citizens of europe. undoubtedly, telephone records can be valuable in various criminal investigations. but that does not mean that we should give the go-ahead for a large-scale and systematic storage of boat calls and emails. traffic data should be used, but only in the context of very serious and well-defined crimes and following court decisions. the harmonization of eu rules is desirable, but far more restrictive than today's decision. in addition, telecommunications operators must be reasonably compensated for their additional costs. the proposal to amend the directive adopted by parliament's committee on civil liberties and human rights was a step in the right direction. but this proposal was voted in favour of a proposal identical to the one negotiated by the governments. that is why i voted against the proposal for a directive. i would have liked to see a decision with shorter retention periods, the exclusion of e-mail and the use of traffic data only for certain serious and well-defined crimes.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is good that the rules of the accession process are clear, and in my view they are. there is no doubt that both romania and bulgaria understand what is required of them. in my travels to these two countries and in my conversations with the people there, i have witnessed this for myself. everyone there knows that we are concerned about the remaining areas of improvement. everyone knows very well that we have eyes on them and are following every step of their development. but none of those with whom i have spoken, from government representatives to the people outside the cafes, are so strongly convinced that we really want to see them as members already in 2007, despite our saying so, despite our resolutions and reports. why is that? obviously, we send signals that are very clear about the problems, the difficulties, the demands, the negativity, but our signals of encouragement, of appreciation and, most of all, our sincerity in welcoming them are not as clear. i think it is good that we are closely monitoring the reforms that are being undertaken and how romania and bulgaria are meeting the requirements for membership. with so many repetitions in this chamber of words such as safeguard clauses, delaying accession, the debate on the eu's external borders, absorption capacity, i am afraid that the signal we are sending not only to romania and bulgaria but to the whole region is that europe has changed into a more closed and more cold europe. that is not my europe, that is not the europe i am fighting for, working for and defending. i believe that all the reforms that romania and bulgaria have carried out in recent times are proof of the efforts of these countries and the fact that they give high priority to their membership. the accession of romania and bulgaria to the eu is a strong catalyst and a factor of security for the whole region. i am convinced that with our help these countries can join in time for january 2007. i am also convinced that this will not be possible without our help and support and without a positive outlook.
the social model you choose has a huge impact on gender equality. recent studies i have seen show that the social model of a general welfare system, relatively high taxes, etc. is the model that best promotes gender equality. my question is whether the council shares that view of its importance for gender equality and its link to the welfare state, jointly financed by the public.
thank you for your very brief answer. we have a community of values in the european union. i wonder if it is possible for the eu countries, as with the social situation in france, to exchange practices, with the council at the forefront, to ensure that children are not exposed to violence at home and at school in our european democracies.
in writing. we swedish social democrats have today voted in favour of the agreement on the 2006 budget reached between the commission, the council and parliament. the eu budget is primarily used to create full employment in europe and to contribute to sustainable social, economic and environmental development. we particularly welcome the response to our repeated calls for investment in the lisbon strategy, including more money for student exchange programmes and for eu research and development programmes. the payments in the agricultural category are reduced compared to the original proposal, which we think is reasonable. direct agricultural aid is oversized and leads to inefficient farming which damages the environment and widen the gap between the world's rich and poor. we cannot therefore support the writings deploring the cuts in agricultural aid decided by the council.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have not yet ratified the convention to include the european union. in budgetary matters, parliament's role should be limited to priorities within the budgetary framework proposed by the council. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. as a result of these proposed increases in expenditure, new negotiations with the council took place. unfortunately, the council has accepted some increases in expenditure during the negotiations that have taken place. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of member states that have not yet adopted the euro. this development is extremely regrettable and shows the importance of not increasing the european parliament's influence.
in writing. i voted against because of the grounds relating to growth and turkey. i am saying no to short-term growth and yes to turkey, not the other way around. i regret that i could not support this proposal to reject the budget.
in writing. we moderates want to develop and modernise the budget of the european union. this means that we want to seek less subsidies and more investment in what the modern economy, global competition, requires, while at the same time we want to strengthen the union's capacity to be a strong international partner for freedom, peace and security. the current budgetary focus is old-fashioned and places too much emphasis on agriculture and subsidies to the old member states for tasks which they themselves should be able to fulfil. the new member states and the poorest regions are the first to benefit from the structural and cohesion funds. we have therefore worked against support for tobacco growing, against export subsidies and for the phasing out of agricultural aid. in return, we want to increase support for research and development, as well as security and neighbourhood policy development. the union needs a budget and we therefore vote in favour of the proposal, even if we believe that it needs substantial changes.
in writing. this report deals with the issue of heavy goods vehicle charges, which is of great importance for the proper functioning of the internal market. at present, there are several different models of road tolls in the european union, which can distort competition. road tolls may be eligible to charge for road wear and environmental pollution. the junilista has voted today to support several of the amendments in the report. we believe that heavy goods transport is an important part of the internal market, and that environmental problems are transnational and that there is therefore an added value in dealing with these issues at eu level.
in writing. the junilists welcome the reform of the eu sugar regime and consider it positive that this sector is being brought more closely into line with the market. we are critical of the eu's export subsidies to domestic sugar growers and are positive that trade in sugar will be able to take place under more reasonable conditions in the future. the acp countries have enjoyed special access to the eu market through preferential agreements. the new sugar market organization will therefore have consequences for certain acp countries. however, the change in the market organisation is necessary and in the long term in the interest of all parties. the eu parliament's rapporteur recommends that significant financial adjustment aid be paid to the acp countries. we would stress that such measures hardly guarantee the necessary restructuring. we call for clearer strategies and priorities for the specific use of financial resources. otherwise, there is a significant risk that the long-term restructuring needs will not be met to the desired extent.
in writing. the junilist believes that the eu should immediately stop concluding fisheries agreements with third countries. the common fisheries policy has led to the overfishing of many european waters and irreversible damage to sensitive marine environments. moreover, fisheries policy has devastating global consequences. the eu's fisheries agreements with third countries generate short-term revenue for the contracting countries. in the longer term, however, the agreements lead to overfishing and to difficulties in the development of local fisheries. the compensation paid goes to the local population to a limited extent. the agreements should be financed by the countries or fleets that choose to use them. fisheries agreements should not be concluded within the eu framework at all. the report contains a positive amendment, namely that the financial contributions should also be used for the benefit of the coastal population which lives off fishing (amendment 2). the report as a whole, however, stresses that the agreements are beneficial for both the eu and third countries. we do not share this view and have therefore voted against this report. the position expressed in this explanation of vote is our position of principle on this matter. the explanation of vote is thus relevant to future cases of a similar nature.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. we believe that the commission's main priorities should be to develop the internal market, strengthen the eu's foreign and security policy, continue the work on the planned enlargement and work to strengthen the eu's competitiveness. however, we are doubtful about certain parts of the resolution which do not respect the principle of subsidiarity, such as the desire to review family leave in the eu and to increase efforts in the field of tourism.
in writing. the rapporteur believes that the public and businesses in the 10 new member states are not aware of the rights and opportunities offered by the harmonised eu legislation in terms of consumer protection. we fully share the view that consumer protection is an important issue. however, we are critical of several of the measures proposed in the report, such as the following: that the rapporteur advocates that consumer awareness should be given higher priority in school curricula throughout europe, which we believe should be decided at national rather than eu level; the commission should carry out a 'strategic information and education campaign' to prepare consumers for the introduction of the euro in the new member states; the commission should draw up a specific strategy to promote the development of a consumer culture in the new member states. this can be done independently by the respective member state; the report also stresses that the commission's proposal is not a simple one, but that it is a comprehensive one. that the governments of the new member states be called upon to finance the formation of consumer organizations, which we believe should be decided at national level; we regret that the european parliament is once again using a pressing political issue to introduce new budget lines and overreaching eu measures.
in writing. this report deals with the question of state aid for the development of disadvantaged regions. the junist party's position is that regional policy can be conducted at national level as long as it does not distort competition in the internal market.
in writing. we share the view that it is urgent to make eu aid more effective and that there is a need to coordinate existing aid efforts. it is good that the resolution addresses these aspects of development policy. the junilists, however, believe that the eu should not be involved in aid issues. this important area is to be dealt with primarily at national level. international coordination of action will be carried out within the framework of existing international organisations with legitimacy and experience. we are critical of certain phrases in the resolution, such as the eu's extension of current aid efforts. for the reasons stated above, we have decided to abstain on this question.
in writing. the resolution raises a serious issue. however, at this point, what are speculation and empty claims and what are facts? we welcome the establishment of a special committee of inquiry in the european parliament. any investigation that seeks to establish the facts of the case is welcome. but various party groups are now trying to make politics of this issue. we feel that there are insufficient facts to express our firm opinion on one side or the other. the european parliament's debate on motions for resolutions and amendments is, as usual, late in the day. so at this point we have tried to avoid taking too emotional a position before the facts of the case are known. we only wish to express our firm opinion that cooperation in the field of intelligence is a matter for the member states and is something they themselves decide in bilateral and multilateral relations.
in writing. this report calls for far-reaching eu action to improve the situation of women, particularly in the fisheries sector. the junilist believes that the eu is a union of values and that women and men should be treated equally and have the same opportunities and rights. we believe, however, that research projects, action programmes, specific vocational training and women's networks should be developed at national or local level and not regulated and supervised by the commission and the eu. we have therefore voted against this report.
