i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you've said everything you need to say about the reasoning. it is good that the council's question time is not shortened by this. i wanted to draw your attention to that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to point out, also on behalf of our group, what the commissioner first mentioned, namely that our chairman of the committee on transport has done his job as chairman of the committee on a matter of air transport regulation, which is not spectacular but nevertheless important, particularly because he has succeeded in organizing a broadly uniform opinion in the committee on this matter. we hope that by unanimous vote we have sweetened his life and his work, and i just wanted to emphasize that once again.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the debate on airport charges and their community regulation has not been so extremely long in vain. another symptom was the endless number of interventions during this debate in the committee on transport. this dossier has been the subject of extreme lobbying. that means that there are a lot of monetary interests involved and you have to ask yourself as a member of parliament in this case: what is behind this? why is that? why is there such a hard fight, such a hard conflict, here? the clue is always: who benefits from opacity? the old question of cui bono, which the latinists taught us, helps us to get further here. transparency always benefits the one who has the market power, who can dictate the terms. this is rarely in the interests of the consumer or fair. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that's why it was very important to me that we find a common solution here. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the application of the directive. i would have liked to have included the smaller airports, because they are often in unfair competition with the larger ones, because they favour the low-cost airlines. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the airports are not subject to the same environmental impact as the airports. here we have the opportunity to reduce the climate damage caused by air traffic and also to reduce the noise pollution for the extremely stressed neighbours.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the question of deregulation or overregulation can be discussed in a very general and abstract way. in the case of individual cases, however, one or the other makes more sense. the commission has rightly presented a draft directive on airport charges, even though we were right to praise administrative simplification in the costa report. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the agreement between ryanair and ams. the commission has put forward an interesting proposal, perhaps a little too small-minded. we in the committee on transport have made some changes, which i hope and believe will be for the better. our rapporteur, mr stockmann, has worked out good compromises in long working discussions with all the stakeholders, but above all with the groups in this house, and we have largely agreed to them. i would like to emphasize three aspects in particular. firstly, we want the directive to prevent individual airports from abusing their dominant position. secondly, we need community-wide rules to establish a well-functioning, non-discriminatory, transparent and comprehensive method of calculating the fees. thirdly, it makes sense to set up an independent regulatory authority in each eu member state to implement these provisions. i expect that we will be able to agree to this result by a large majority in the plenary tomorrow, and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again on his good work.
in writing. the new regulation on the import of certain dangerous chemicals and pesticides has introduced some useful technical changes to this procedure. in the past, international exchanges have been hampered by administrative obstacles. this was mainly due to the 'express consent' of the importing state, which was necessary for import. there is no doubt that such consent is essential, and must continue to be maintained, particularly in the case of potentially dangerous substances. the principle of subsidiarity is one of the founding principles of the union and the member states should be able to determine for themselves what dangerous goods may be transported across their borders. however, in the spirit of free trade, a certain degree of flexibility should be maintained. a slightly greater degree of flexibility can also help to prevent countries with insufficient import control systems from being outmaneuvered by exporters with less control. the current compromise takes account of these considerations and guarantees both the responsible handling of potentially hazardous chemicals and the necessary margin of manoeuvre to maintain the smooth flow of international trade.
i have to say, madam president, a community strategy on health and safety at work is absolutely necessary. while technical worker protection is showing markedly increasing successes, the rapid change in the world of work brings new dangers. the problems and dangers of new chemical substances in the world of work are evident. but above all - and this is the spirit of the times in today's working world - the increasing pressure to perform brings with it not only physical but also psychological problems. uncertain working conditions and fears of survival lead to psychosocial problems. new additional aggression potentials are intensified, additional stressors lead to psychological violence and bullying is commonplace. smes are particularly vulnerable to such phenomena if they are not prevented, informed, monitored and trained. that is why this resolution is more important than it is likely to be approved. i congratulate the rapporteur.
i have to say, madam president, health at work must be a priority. there is also some need for action in the parliament in brussels and strasbourg. if i just look at the ambient temperature in this room, it's almost a health hazard. but i think there's also a role model. a few months ago, i was locked in a hotel in greece, surrounded by a forest fire. and i have to say, this hotel - this was a typical sme - had prepared itself in the best way for this situation. if all the safety precautions had not been perfectly designed, well organized and prepared, many people would probably not have survived. i therefore believe that this learning - as my colleague mr ettl has said, this training and preparation for crises - is of particular importance. here too, incentive schemes would be useful, for example, that the insurance companies grant correspondingly cheaper premiums to those companies that have trained employees and that the social security system also offers corresponding training measures.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would only ask this: article 159 of the rules of procedure states: 'parliament shall, as a rule, vote by show of hand.' it is therefore necessary to examine whether the request of the group of the european people's party that each vote be by roll-call is also in accordance with the rules of procedure. i think that is against the rules of procedure. please do this by tomorrow. i believe that we shall vote today exactly as provided for in the voting list, but i would ask that the legal admissibility be checked by tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have a very liberal and, above all, a minority-friendly rules of procedure in this house. that is what we want and that is what we should be sticking to. however, this also requires that the groups concerned use their minority rights correctly and not in an abusive manner. if that happens, and today's case was one of those, then we should reconsider this practice.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would just like to say that it is true that the president who chaired the morning session forgot to ask who is going to speak for or against the proposal. but it is also true that the clear majority of this house voted that we do not debate or have the explanations of vote now, but at 10 p.m. tonight. now there is a new proposal, and i would like to support it on behalf of my group - and i think also on behalf of other members of this house. i think the regulation you have proposed is reasonable and we shall see what the vote says. and as you yourself have said, the house is sovereign. the house decides by majority vote. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already done so. i should like to take this opportunity to make two fundamental remarks. the first is that i urge and hope that, once the work programme has been drawn up, the appointment of the director of this human rights agency will be made immediately, because there is no point in setting up an agency unless it is made operational as quickly as possible. the second point of principle: i would like to use this debate to call once again for an evaluation of the performance and the usefulness of all agencies. i am not convinced that all agencies work the way we want them to and that they must last forever, but i am rather convinced that there are some parallel structures here and that some agencies will be able to be dispensed with without anyone noticing and without anyone suffering. i would like to ask you when the commission intends to start such an evaluation.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the good cooperation she has shown. we agree with all that has been said on many important points. i would like to emphasize two points which are particularly important to me, namely, firstly, the right to education as a basic condition for the social development of children. member states must ensure that access is free of barriers for all children and young people, irrespective of their ethnic and social origin and their marital status. this also means that all forms of exclusion, discrimination and violence against children must be prevented. the launch of the helpline should be pushed as soon as possible. the second point which is very important to me is the promotion of languages as a european cultural asset. we should also not forget one innovation: the rights of the child also include the fact that we include them in the new developments in education and training, namely also in the field of media literacy, and promote this as a very important educational tool.
i would be interested to know: we have these top-down guidelines with minus 30%, and there seems to be a great deal of agreement. you are quite right in saying that others will do this to achieve these goals. i want to ask you personally: do you have a plan for how you will personally achieve this 30% reduction in your personal environment?
the european parliament has set a target of -30% by 2012, using emas, and we are also curious to see what concrete measures are being taken by the european parliament and those responsible. commissioner, you said that the result of emas is a reduction in electricity consumption. i would like to know what concrete measures have been taken, what concrete measures are planned for the coming years and what role will renewable energies play in this?
- i'm not sure. you have pointed out that there is a lot of work being done to remove dangerous goods from the market. this is an important step. now some of these products are also being placed on our markets with well-known marks, including the well-known ce marking. this is according to all the rules of the art, for example if the safety is not given or if the toy is actually dangerous, not only abuse, but this is actually fraud. is there any possibility of considering criminal consequences?
i'm not going to tell you. i am sure you are right in calling for us to start with school education here, to actually put consumers in a better position to a) know their rights and b) then deal with them. but now we have a generation or generations in the financial services sector who think differently, who have heard and are acting in the knowledge that financial services and financial markets have strong government oversight and that they can rely on that government oversight. there's been a lot of talk about the market's upswing lately. in this state surveillance, can't we do one or the other?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i was recently invited to a rotary club and there was a very interesting debate: a very europe-critical rotarian complained that there was a lot of fraud in europe, that there was no control here and that we had a lot of problems in the agricultural sector. the interesting thing was that a few minutes later a farmer came forward and said that he had just had a control that was very thorough and very precise, and that he had never known a better control than in the agricultural sector. i think that shows very clearly what the citizens want, namely information on what is actually happening. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of farm prices, the introduction of a new system of farm prices and the introduction of a new system of farm prices.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i believe that democracy in europe is constantly evolving, and we have a lot of attacks on our democratic system from outside europe. of course, the members of the european parliament decide on a great many issues which directly and directly affect the citizens of europe. meps do not decide for themselves, but they represent their constituents. the european parliament's members must not therefore be placed at a disadvantage compared with national members, and vice versa. i therefore believe that the commission should examine the impact of the new statute for polish members of parliament, which will apply from 2009, the changes that have been made and whether it is possible to implement these principles in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask that the temperature in the room be set to a human-friendly level. it's sometimes so cold in here that it soon becomes necessary to put on a coat. i'm asking the administration to ensure a proper temperature. thank you, thank you!
in writing. - the truck tolls introduced under the guise of transport transfer did not, as expected, make rail transport more attractive, but were passed on to the consumer. the focus on road transport will exacerbate existing problems such as congestion, noise, pollution and particulate matter, particularly on major routes and in urban areas. the carelessness with which some transports are carried out is also a cause for concern. weekly truck spot checks have led to a significant increase in truck safety in austria and should become the standard across the eu. if the european union is serious about the health of its citizens and the protection of the environment, it is important to replace very quickly the main sources of pollution emissions, such as commercial vehicles with aging diesel engines, to make rolling country roads economically attractive and to ensure the implementation of the alpine convention.
in writing. − unscrupulous traders try to circumvent the special requirements for the transport of chemicals and other dangerous goods, such as special driver training, labelling and so on. the small vans of parcel services contain highly toxic acids, explosive liquids or ammunition - often without the driver's knowledge. if there is no marking and the transport documents do not show what is really happening, accidents can be fatal to some of the workers involved. a fire would have unforeseeable consequences, not only in terms of permanent damage to health, but also in terms of pollution of the environment. it is sensible to simplify the requirements for the transport of dangerous goods while maintaining safety. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! as a member of parliament from carinthia, slovenia's immediate neighbour, it is a matter of great pride and joy for me that a nation which was still suffering under the yoke of communism 20 years ago is now leading the way in the european union for six months. this is proof to me that the path of european integration from the disasters of the 20th century to freedom and unity is in itself a right one. when i hear that slovenia's main objective in this council presidency is also to bring all the states of the former yugoslavia closer to the european union, i believe that this is correct and that it is important to complete this process of european integration, so to speak, territorially. i believe that this is also much more important than, for example, the accession negotiations with a country like turkey, whose primary territory is in asia, in anatolia. i believe that this process of bringing the former yugoslav states closer to the eu should be carried out in the first place in a way that allows europeans to act without the influence of non-european powers such as the usa and russia. i hope that slovenia will be able to take account of croatia's wishes to join the eu in the first place and that conflicts such as the one over the fishing zone between croatia and slovenia will not be an obstacle here. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. the fact is that on the kosovo question, which will undoubtedly be the most burdensome for the slovenian presidency of the council, we must take account of the right of self-determination of the peoples, the right of the majority of kosovo albanians, on the one hand, and the historical rights of the serbs, on the other. we cannot allow kosovo to become something like a us satellite state, and serbia, on the other hand, cannot be driven into the arms of moscow, into the arms of the kremlin. the independence of kosovo should not become a precedent for turkish northern cyprus. the aim should be stability in the balkans and the territorial completion of european integration. let me turn briefly to a bilateral problem between slovenia and austria: the question of topographical signs in carinthia. i hope that the austrian federal government will soon find a fair solution that is satisfactory for the slovene minority in austria, which is in itself extremely well protected. i hope that slovenia will also find a sensible solution to the problem of the german-speaking austrian minority in slovenia, recognizing them as an indigenous minority, and that the austrian-slovenian cultural agreement can be given substance in this respect.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, do not let yourself be reduced to your role in the balkans! the european union must remain a european presidency. i would like to start small, however, and i hope that my country, austria, will also make a good contribution to your presidency by solving the outstanding problems of the slovenian minority in austria and that the slovenian minority will finally have its due. as rapporteur for croatia, i hope that croatia can make great progress during your presidency. you must contribute to this, and croatia must contribute to this. i expect you to continue to implement the agreement you reached with prime minister sanader during your presidency and to resolve the border disputes through a third party assessment. i expect croatia to make greater efforts and, as regards the ecological fishing zone, i expect it to keep its promise not to extend and apply this zone to croatia and italy. the biggest problem is certainly the kosovo problem, and i think you are on the right track. you're moving with caution, you're moving calmly, but with purpose. this is the solution we must seek in kosovo, because a coexistence of kosovo within serbia - let us be honest - is not possible and does not make sense, neither for kosovo nor for serbia. but that does not mean that we cannot share serbia's concerns and understand that serbia has big problems here. but one thing must also be said very clearly to the serbian people, and in particular to prime minister koštunica: we believe that the future of serbia - a democratic serbia, a serbia that also cooperates with the icty - lies in europe! if mr koštunica believes that serbia's future lies in russia, that is his problem, but i do not think that the serbian people agree with that. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. we are making a sincere offer to the whole region, and in particular to serbia, to continue on the path to european union in due course. this is a great task for you to accomplish, and i am sure you will do it well! (applause from the centre)
mr president, we are very much in favour of the presidency of the council. as children, we were taught very intensively how general marshal tito was pushed through the streets of belgrade, people were pushed to the side, he was stopped, there were no traffic rules. for us, in this juvenile, childish understanding, it was the epitome of the arbitrariness and recklessness of a particular system. we have heard, later on, of the arbitrary prosecution of dissidents and critics in the country from which you were able to escape. now that you're here, your joy is understandable, but be alert! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and arbitrary proceedings are unfortunately also available in this eu against unwelcome critics.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. on the night of 20 to 21 december 2007, we extended the schengen border. we have gained a little more freedom and have come one step closer to each other. the barbed wire is finally removed and slovenia took over the presidency of the council of the reunited europe on 1 january. i am very happy about this as a european, but above all as an austrian, as a friend, as a neighbour, as an ally. mr president-in-office of the council, i'm interested in six points in this debate: first, the fact that you are in office is not just symbolic. it makes us aware of historical developments which for many people have either become a matter of course or are unfortunately perceived as a threat. secondly, the ratification process has begun in hungary. they must structure and dynamize the process and ensure that european citizens are given sufficient and coordinated information. thirdly, please use the climate targets and the strengthening of european energy independence to give new impetus to the implementation of the lisbon strategy for growth, jobs and social cohesion. fourthly, your geographical situation, your historical experience and the timing of your presidency give you a special responsibility in connection with the accession of croatia, the freedom of kosovo and the agreement with serbia. fifthly, we are launching with you the european year of intercultural and interreligious dialogue. let this be a presidency of togetherness, of mutual respect, of consideration and of mutual understanding. the sixth and final point: do not confuse your european responsibility with the bilateral issues to be resolved or austria's commitment to the slovenian minority in austria. bilateral treaties concluded between two member states under international law do not fall within the competence of the european union.
mr president, the prime minister, mr janez janša, is very much appreciated. we have a number of dossiers which are very important to us, including the dossier on research for small and mediumsized enterprises. i would ask that the council's conclusions insist that we can conclude this at first reading, because i believe that this is an urgent matter for our small and mediumsized enterprises. the second point is that energy efficiency in production and consumption should be the focus of our debates. there is a lot of employment to be created here. the lisbon agenda for new jobs and employment is very important to all of us.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we can agree on an exceptional basis, but i would like to draw the commission's attention to the fact that it is parliament which sets the agenda and it is only in exceptional situations that we can respond to the wishes of individual commissioners. but today, for once, we can agree.
i have to say, madam president, i speak on behalf of the epp-europe club. we voted against all the articles which include the right to sexual and reproductive health, because the interpretation of this text can of course also include abortion at any time and we are against it. we voted for paragraph 127 concerning the ban on headscarves because we do not want to force young people to wear political symbols and because we want to guarantee that young people are guaranteed freedom of choice and decision-making. we also voted for paragraph 116, but that does not mean that there are necessarily legal consequences to be drawn from it.
i have to say, madam president, the report by mrs pack 'adult education - you never learn' is, in my view, one of the most important action programmes of the european union: the motivation to participate in adult education programmes, the learning of foreign languages, the motivation to graduate from university and thus the chance of better employment opportunities and thus a better income, and the chance of better integration of immigrants. it is important, however, especially for women, that the appropriate framework programmes for childcare are in place. in particular, we must also pay close attention to the possibility of exchanging knowledge between generations. the european club of the austrian people's party has therefore gladly agreed to this report.
in writing. the european union is a global community of civil society. children who are taught to hate the decadent western culture then act out their hatred in schoolyard and street violence or even become potential terrorist activists. here, out of a misunderstanding of tolerance, early warning signs have been ignored and an explosive dynamic has been allowed to develop. the increase in child trafficking and pornography is also a cause for concern - particularly offenders are known to have a high rate of recidivism. in this context, questionable adoption procedures for children from third world countries have been brought to light, where child trafficking, organ trafficking or prostitution are also not deterred. given the large number of orphans - especially in the east - waiting to be adopted and the millions of unborn children in europe, a strict ban on the adoption of non-european children would be a major blow against child trafficking, as would the introduction of a europe-wide sex offender register and the increase in penalties for sexual contact with children and for possession of child pornography. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. - it is counterproductive to keep your own people learning and then to come up with blue-card schemes. the increase in atypical conditions and the increased pressure of competition mean that a good basic and continuing education is no longer a protection against unemployment. there are enough well-educated people who are rejected by companies just because they are looking for the cheapest mac job, doctor or master, or just want to offer more atypical working conditions. in principle, the shortage of skilled workers, which is used as a pretext, must be eliminated by training campaigns. if this is not possible, a seasonal model is preferable. this will ensure that there is no further mass immigration. despite the contradictions in eu objectives that have been identified, efforts and programmes in the area of lifelong learning are of course worth supporting.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to join the question put by my colleague, mrs glenys kinnock, to commissioner michel. what are the main points? how can you imagine that? in what direction will budget support be changed? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and whether he has not made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. i am expressly in favour, on behalf of the epp-ed group, of the council's proposal to integrate europol into the european institutions, for several reasons. firstly, because we will have a new legal basis which will save us lengthy ratification procedures and thus allow europol to adapt flexibly and quickly to new circumstances; secondly, because not only the minutes will be included but the responsibility for preparation and funding will be extended; the operational possibilities will be extended because the funding will be provided by the union budget and thus more independence will also be created for europol and better control possibilities will be provided for us as a parliament; and last but not least because data protection will continue to be guaranteed at a very high level in the future. i thank the rapporteur for his very realistic amendments, in particular on the tasks of the joint committee, on the immunity of europol staff in operational matters, on the role of parliament in the appointment of the director, and again on data protection. he has done an excellent job here on behalf of parliament. if all these proposals are accepted, europol will become more decisive, more adaptable and more controllable. i cannot understand the liberal proposal to wait until the treaty enters into force for all these measures to strengthen europol to increase security in the interests of the citizens. because we need security now, which means we need europol now. we have to do the work now and we will certainly look at it again if necessary after the treaty enters into force. i therefore ask the liberals to reconsider their proposal and if possible to withdraw the amendment altogether.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my question is: how will the increase in food and energy prices affect the wto negotiations? we know that the biggest obstacle so far has been the subsidies and the farm bill in america and that of course europe has suffered from the rising world market prices. is there any new way of adjusting quotas and duties accordingly? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the situation in the baltic sea region.
mr president of the council! you have rightly pointed out that bilateral contacts can help to solve such problems. the council, however, together with the president of this house and the president of the commission, signed the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. we are talking about human dignity and the prohibition of inhuman and cruel punishment. would it not therefore be the council's task to make this claim on behalf of the union throughout the world?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament also respects the commission's right of initiative, as the council has just said. we are not going to be able to do that. criteria such as unemployment or increased emigration would certainly be topics that could be brought into the discussion. as you mentioned in the previous question about the slovenian brown bears, i, as a styrian, am grateful for these exports and hope that the open schengen border will lead to even more immigration.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. i am grateful to you for your reply, which is at least in some respects acceptable. you must understand that we are impatient with these matters because the recent events have again shown how urgent the problem is. firstly, as regards the roma forum, we have given our consent. i think it's a good idea, especially with the involvement of the roma themselves. it is important, however, to act quickly, because i fear that now the proposal is coming, it is being discussed, and there is a back and forth. i believe that the roma forum should be set up as soon as possible, and that it should be established this year. parliament will certainly help. secondly, it would be important to involve the local authorities. because governments often have good will and make promises, but then the problem ends up with the mayor or somewhere in the region and is not really addressed. thirdly, thank you very much for your commitment to the proposals on equal treatment outside the workplace. this is an important issue in general and one which my group supports very much. however, madam commissioner, i would like to make it clear on behalf of my group that these inter-service groups - we all know them from our own administrations - are both difficult and helpful. we think it would be important if a commissioner were responsible for coordinating the subject area or at least if there were a commissioner or commissioners below a commissioner to do this. i still do not know why the romanian commissioner has the job he has. if he could at least help me do that, it would help. i don't know, man. but we want to strengthen these things. you're going in the right direction. i thank you for your report, commissioner, but a little more power and a little more speed would be very important in the interests of the roma.
mr president, commissioner ferrero-waldner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has been working on this matter for some time. first of all, i would like to reject the criticism that commissioner špidla is too lazy to deal with this problem. i don't think that's the right way to discuss it in this house. it is important that we focus on the roma to improve the education provision especially for the youth. we all know the system of compulsory education, and i believe that language skills, mathematical skills, many things that are simply necessary for a good life, should be made possible in this area. on the other hand, i understand that not everyone wants to integrate. we must of course offer initiatives for those who do not want to integrate into our society. i believe that the concept of free access to these problems is the key solution for the future.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs for their excellent and very cooperative work. i also thank the commissioner, because i know that she is rightly very involved in this area and because i feel that she wants to do even more than some member states might want. we are very supportive of them. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank mr semneby, who represents the council and is also very active in this region. i think we must come to something that at least in approaches corresponds to what i and my colleagues keep calling the eu black sea region. mr sarkozy has used this in a different way for the mediterranean, namely in the sense of a division of the european union. no, the whole of the european union and this region of the black sea and the south caucasus must work together in the spirit of partnership - as others have already mentioned - to solve the common problems that exist: the political problems, for example in terms of stability, also in terms of migration, and of course also the economic problems, i am thinking only of energy transit. if we want to be a little less dependent on russia, for example, we must remember that there are other channels, and they go through this region and especially through turkey. whatever one thinks about membership now - i know there are different opinions - turkey remains an important partner for the european union in this area and therefore, of course, turkey must be included. i agree with mr severin when he said that we should try to solve these problems together with the great russia. but that does not mean that we should put aside the independence and autonomy and the self-healing power of the countries in this region and say that we can only solve things with russia. russia must also know that we support these countries in their quest for independence and also in resolving their conflicts. europe must be a partner that is clearly on the side of these countries. the black sea region is therefore a very important region for the european union. we must not fail to develop this field with her. only by acting together against russia will we be able to pursue our interests together.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her good cooperation. we had very good opportunities for cooperation across all party lines. thank you very much. i would like to begin by saying that we have already submitted a great many reports on this subject. the demand for equal pay for equal work is a demand that has been made for over 30 years, but we have not yet been able to implement it. we are taking small steps, little by little, and we are producing paper after paper, but the success of women is still really very far behind everything we have worked up. for example, in manufacturing 85% of the workforce is female, in ict 15% while in high technology women are hard to find. this does not mean that women are less educated, but that they are simply not given the opportunity to take up other occupations, especially in rural areas. women also continue to work in the low-wage sector, and even in this sector there are still differences between men and women. the inequality and discrimination in terms of wages, but also in terms of employment, are still there. we therefore also call on the trade unions to take a stronger stand against this type of wage discrimination in wage negotiations. support for continuing vocational training is largely lacking or very inadequate. training and continuing training are necessary to enable women to pursue careers in less skilled fields. companies are also called upon to implement family and women-friendly staffing schemes which benefit everyone. because when everyone is happy, the economy is happy, especially our women who work there.
in writing. - kenya was a holiday paradise for many people until recently. the vast majority of the population living in absolute poverty, massive corruption could be well hidden. since the elections at the end of december, the fraud in the presidential elections, kenya and its political problems have suddenly become the talk of the town. the parliamentary elections were widely regarded as successful by election observers, but doubts were expressed about the results of the presidential elections. with today's resolution on kenya, we once again deplore the widespread irregularities and the attitude of president kibaki, who has rejected president john kufuor's offer to resolve the crisis, seriously undermining the efforts at mediation. the political leaders of kenya are called upon to do everything in their power to prevent further violence in the country and to ensure respect for human rights. the debate on this subject has once again raised and questioned the effectiveness of direct budget support. it's a subject that will continue to concern us, as it does kenya.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. with today's resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo and rape as a war crime, we call on the european union and the united nations to formally recognise rape, forced pregnancy, sexual slavery and other forms of sexual violence as crimes against humanity and as a form of torture. and we demand that pressure be put on the congolese government to end the situation of impunity. these steps are necessary to improve the terrible situation of hundreds of thousands of women. the violence that women in the democratic republic of congo suffer is unimaginable. in kivu province, more than a third of all women are raped, many repeatedly over a long period of time. it's been going on for years. the perpetrators are mainly soldiers of all factions, members of the congolese security forces and the police. the un special rapporteur on violence against women reported last september. the atrocities committed by the armed forces are of an unimaginable brutality and are aimed at the complete physical and psychological destruction of women. adding to the trauma of rape, many of the victims suffer social discrimination and ostracism from their families and communities. this is one reason why only a fraction of rapes that actually occur are reported. we therefore call - as my colleague borrell fontelles has already said - for the un mandate to be extended to include the protection of civilians against sexual violence. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the conference on peace, security and development opened in goma a few days ago. we urge participants to address the problem of sexual violence against women and girls and commit to bring perpetrators to justice and end impunity.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank you very much for reading out the names of those who said this morning that there is no democracy in this house because they cannot speak. if you look at the benches of those who have come here and loudly demonstrated and declared that there is no democracy, you can see that they do not even take the time to stay until the end of the session. you are not a good example for europe! i would ask that this be specifically noted in the minutes.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. on behalf of my group, i would like to thank you personally and the commission for their work. the right objectives, as set and pursued, both in terms of ecology and economic issues, have already been discussed. in the implementation of this we must - as my predecessor has already said - look at individual points. you know that we are very sceptical about biofuels as far as current technologies are concerned. we must invest much more in research and development - and this applies to the next budgets - in order to achieve the second generation as quickly as possible, so that we can really achieve an ecologically positive balance. it is absolutely crucial to have a traceable positive ecological footprint for biofuels. as far as co2 and greenhouse gas emissions are concerned, many people will say - and i agree with them - minus 20% is too low to guarantee the targets we want to achieve on climate change. but i must agree with you on the other hand, and i would like to underline twice what you said: it is not right that europe should be left to its own devices, unprotected, and others left out and unwilling to join in. because we do not want to export dirty technologies and jobs. we want to develop clean technologies in europe and also export them so that we can keep this environment clean together. that must be our goal. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if that is not possible, mr president of the commission, we are in favour of having our own ideas. i think the commission is too hesitant on this point. i do believe that decisions will have to be taken later, but i do believe that we must start thinking now about what we will do if there are no international agreements. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. we must, however, make a strong case for taking both the ecological and the economic aspects into account. i don't take any of the industry's outcry for granted. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. you announced it. we will have to look at this in the legislation. what we really need to achieve, mr president, and ladies and gentlemen of the commission, is what we have achieved with reach, namely an alliance of ecology, but also of industry and workers, to ensure that all interests can be brought to a common denominator. reach is a good example of this. mr sacconi and many others have helped us to achieve this with this parliament and with this commission. the environmental objectives must guide us, but we must also take account of the economic issues in order to ensure a clean industry and a clean economy in europe.
i have to say, madam president, unless energy-hungry emerging economies and energy-wasting developed countries take environmental considerations more seriously, all efforts at eu level will not even be able to repair the damage they have caused. i think that the success of the so-called 'trade in allowances' is also questionable, since its hidden development aid does not reduce overall emissions but at best redistributes them. to date, austria alone has spent €280 million on allowances, while renewable energy is only supported by €20 million per year. so i think that rather than postponing energy policy considerations as a pretext for turkey's eu accession, it would be more sensible to rethink eu-russia relations in this regard. last but not least, the eu must finally use sophisticated, environmentally friendly power and energy technologies, put a stop to water waste, cut transport subsidies across europe and increase pressure on the biggest climate offenders.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you for making it very clear in the introduction that the cost of inaction or not enough action at european level and in the member states will be at least five times the package presented here. i would like to join the speakers who stress the importance of renewable energy and i am glad that the commission does not consider nuclear energy as renewable energy, which is not at all a matter for discussion. i would also like to stress the importance of energy efficiency and of measures to be taken in this area, because all the studies show that energy efficiency is the most economical way of reducing co2 emissions. i would like to emphasize that i am extremely sceptical about the storage of co2 and that i am against the mandatory 10% for biofuels. as a development politician, i would also like to say that i am looking forward to the commission's proposals on how to bring more projects under the clean development mechanism to the poorest countries on the planet, because we know that the poorest countries are suffering the most from the effects of climate change.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to mention once again transport as one of the main causes of the climate problem and to put it at the centre of our action. the european union has not yet made a name for itself in reducing emissions from transport. but we do have a second chance. we have the opportunity, for example, to make the external costs of the euro-vignette really accountable and thus to shift more transport volumes from road to rail, where we are much better off in terms of emissions. if we don't address the issue of transport, we will have no chance of ever reaching the climate goals. this applies in particular to all the countries in the heart of europe. in order to get these countries to take action and reduce traffic on the road, we also need to impose sanctions on those who cause further increases and are not prepared to reduce traffic.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is about three things: human rights, the nuclear issue and free democratic elections in iran. what we are not discussing today is whether or not to blacklist mujahideen, which we will deal with separately. as far as human rights are concerned, we are particularly concerned about the many, sometimes very cruel, cases of the death penalty in iran. i agree with what mr gahler said and i hope that our publicity can make a difference. secondly, as regards nuclear weapons, we are in full agreement with the view expressed by the high commissioner. we do not want nuclear weapons in iran, we do not want nuclear weapons in the whole region. it was a scandal, as, unfortunately, the united states of america, among others, watched as the bomb was developed in pakistan and watched as, among others, the bomb-making technologies were transferred to iran, because in pakistan they saw only the joint struggle against the soviet union and thus also afghanistan. but what we need is control - and i ask you, mr high commissioner, to work particularly towards this - that enrichment and disposal in the nuclear industries in particular should be more multilateralised and more closely controlled. we must do more because this is not just about iran, but about other countries as well. what we also need - and the americans have to make even more concessions - is the recognition of legitimate security needs, not of any government, but of the country of iran. this security must be guaranteed, and then we can certainly make progress in our dialogue with iran. i also support the un resolution because it is an important step forward. i can only agree with you, mr commissioner, on the elections. elections and democracy only make sense if there are really free elections, and if mr ahmadinejad thinks he has such broad support in iran, then i can only call out to him from this place: mr ahmadinejad, make really free elections possible without outside intervention, and you will see if you have such broad support! free elections in iran are an important aspect of the democratization of the entire region. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good that we can have this debate today, so close to the dramatic events in gaza. it is also good that parliament can express its views here to commissioner solana and the commissioner. but it is also important that we use this opportunity to inform ourselves better. daniel cohn-bendit said that it's not enough to give food, we need to talk. we now have new mechanisms, such as the pegasus programme, to achieve better dialogue and cooperation here. perhaps we can get more information from the commissioner.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we all, including myself, have repeatedly complained in recent years that even on important legislative projects the council's benches have remained largely empty. we should therefore welcome the fact that the slovenian presidency is taking part in this important legislative debate at a high level, and in this way anticipates to some extent the future of the lisbon treaty, which it has just ratified. the single market for postal services has a long history. we are pleased that with the text we have before us today we hope to contribute to a good end. the commission proposal at the time was in principle coherent and acceptable, but for us in the european parliament the principle was often a little too global in many cases, and important details remained open in our view. in this context, it was good that, under the leadership of our rapporteur, mr markus ferber, to whom i extend my warmest congratulations on behalf of the group of the european people's party and the european democrats, we added a number of important aspects to the commission's proposal, or interpreted and made it more concrete, in the first reading by a very large majority. we have added another option, especially in the area of financing, which is important so that this very central issue is not overlooked. we have strengthened the social aspects, especially the working conditions, working hours, holidays and the like, and we have also introduced a temporary reciprocity clause in particular to ensure that there are no windfall profits for some who could spread themselves in other areas here. in return we have postponed the entry into force of the directive for two years. we believe that this was a balanced proposal on the whole and we see our position confirmed by the council's attitude, which then largely agreed with the european parliament's position. we should accept this position tomorrow and rejoice with the council, the commission and the rapporteur in the outcome.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not in favour of cheering on the basis of the facts. fact number one: who benefits? it's those consumers who love commercials and live in a city. they'll benefit. it is also those companies which specialise in mass and advertising broadcasting that will benefit. the blind and the visually impaired will not benefit. i therefore urge you to support our amendment on this point. the low-paid postal workers will not benefit, and the stress will increase under the present conditions. and people who live in the countryside or in hard-to-reach areas and who depend on private mail will not benefit, because here there will be a stealthy reduction in services to the limit of what is possible and permissible. the taxpayers will not benefit in particular, because they will have to finance the universal service again, which was previously financed internally, so to speak, by a subsidy between mass dispatch and private mail. that's why my balance sheet is negative. i think this is the wrong way. competition is good, but you have to make sure it's fair. this is not the case here!
the eu-wide liberalization of the postal services is coming. but not in 2009, as originally planned, but in 2011. the postal sector is economically important and has an impact on other sectors. as in all other areas, it makes sense to increase competition in the mail delivery sector. of course, not only the economy but also the consumers will benefit enormously. but only if the conditions are right. this means that it must be ensured that mail delivery continues to be of the usual quality and at reasonable prices. it is necessary to ensure that universal postal services are provided on a permanent basis. everywhere. so also for those who live in remote areas. good and above all safe working conditions for all those employed by the post office are particularly important. it is also important that all postal providers operate under the same conditions. it was clear from the beginning that this was not to be a brutal liberalisation. we must create a good and lasting system for all postal operators, their employees and, of course, their customers.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what is the council presidency worth? you, from a small country, may be able to judge that we are not coming to solutions. is it the power of the economy and the economic interests, is it the dysfunction of the international system, or is it the lack of awareness among the population? i think the latter is the case - at least when it comes to decision-makers - no longer. it all comes down to economics and politics, and i think we make a lot of mistakes there. the only way we can get into the process with credibility and actually come up with constructive solutions is if we start with ourselves. in practical terms, this would simply mean reducing the co2 emissions of the policy operation. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the eu, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take part in the discussions on the future of the eu. that would be quite achievable for your presidency of the council, and not the very big things which will be passed on to someone else in six months anyway.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the bali conference was a step in the right direction and i would like to thank all the members and the commission for what i consider to be a positive outcome. the increase in global average temperature is already having an impact in many areas of the world. the objective of keeping global warming at a maximum of 2°c above pre-industrial levels is therefore imperative. this objective must be supported and promoted by new innovation, investment in research and development, but above all in education and training. agriculture is affected by climate change in three ways. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the environment. third, agriculture can also see and take advantage of climate change. as a producer of renewable raw materials and especially in the second and third generations as a producer of substitutes for petrochemical products or also through new possibilities in the cultivation of the soil, we have an opportunity here. i would like to stress once again the importance of research and development and education in this particular area. the production of renewable raw materials, however, requires the development and observance of sustainability criteria. the commissioner, climate change is a global problem affecting society as a whole and not just one sector. it can therefore only be solved by this global approach, both at eu level and worldwide. the european union should play a leading and mediating role here!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a point here of what happened in the plenary this afternoon. the socialist group, chaired by president pöttering, and chaired by martin schulz, called out to me from the front row, loudly and clearly enough to be heard from the back: 'shut up, you idiot!' this is a really unacceptable behaviour, it is offensive and it is also degrading. i expect that appropriate action will be taken, especially against a man who is seeking the position mr pöttering currently holds. that is not the way it should be in a parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. specialists who can carry out high-risk jobs make a valuable contribution to safety - we agree! the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. in view of the rising crime rate, however, the present trend is in some respects worrying. police stations are being dismantled, special forces are being reduced, while we are increasingly faced with increasingly ruthless criminal gangs who can rub their hands together with every new border opening. in this situation, the eu also wants to make it as difficult as possible for the adult citizen to protect himself with weapons, and has contributed to a multicultural society with a growing 'no-go area' and an increasing willingness to use violence through failed multicultural visions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat terrorism, including the creation of a european police force. the absurdity of withdrawing police officers for terrorist units and dissolving functioning special units, only to be able to form new special units - for example against youth gangs - must, in my view, be put to an end!
the commission has already done so. unlike my predecessors, i welcome this initiative and put forward the slogan: 'good things take time!' this is because the austrian initiative dates back to a heads of state or government initiative in 2004 and addresses the question of how best to support all member states with special forces in the event of a terrorist attack. it is therefore not related to what my predecessor mentioned, and i do not understand the gue/ngl group simply rejecting such an initiative of mutual assistance by special units. we know that no member state is really in a position to be protected at all times against all contingencies, and so parliament has also tried to find ways of providing the best possible and, above all, rapid assistance across borders in such a special case, in the case of terrorist attacks, hostage-taking or kidnapping. i particularly welcome the additional proposals put forward by parliament, because they simplify the situation, for example by determining who ultimately has to bear the costs, namely the member state requesting the assistance, or by determining the rules under which officials carry out their duties when they become active in another member state. this is also a matter of liability rules. i welcome the fact that there is also joint training to bring these special forces together and to actually optimise the operations if they are needed. i congratulate the rapporteur. the epp-ed group will support this initiative.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have never used the word 'dictatorial' in relation to the european institutions, despite all my criticisms over the years. i think and i am convinced that what has been made possible today by this incredibly broad empowerment of the president opens the door to arbitrariness. we cannot always - and especially not in this house - expect the president to act fairly and with balance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the citizens of europe do not deserve this! i think that a certain gulf has been crossed here, and that will lead to major democratic problems!
in writing. − it is an open secret that many eastern states have a huge threat potential, with organised gang crime, prostitution, human trafficking and drug offences all too often being directed from the east. and many of our new member states are seen as transit countries from which to continue their march towards western europe. the eu has a long-standing policy of promoting the free movement of goods and services, and the eu has a long-standing policy of promoting the free movement of goods and services. that is why i voted for the cashman report.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo. the rainforests play a crucial role in the world's climate. they store a huge amount of co2. they are also the largest reservoirs of water on earth. like a sponge, they store water and cool the atmosphere. but deforestation and burning are seriously jeopardizing this vital function. a halt to deforestation and forest fires would therefore be a crucial contribution to the fight against global warming. the increased demand for biofuels in europe is diametrically opposed to the protection of rainforests. to meet the increased demand for biodiesel, thousands of acres of rainforest are already being cleared to produce palm oil. certification and labelling of sustainable biofuel production are therefore essential for the protection of the rainforest and the global climate. in addition, production aggravates the social situation in the countries concerned by the massive rise in the prices of basic foodstuffs. i am therefore against the commission's proposal in the climate and energy package to make 10% biofuels compulsory by 2020, because this does nothing for climate protection and is far from a sustainable policy.
in writing. − energy saving measures and increased energy efficiency are desirable for environmental and economic reasons. i therefore voted for the hall report, but i hope that we will have more success here than in our ambition to reduce energy consumption by 2020 or to increase the share of renewable energy - both lofty objectives which, as things stand, we are unlikely to be able to achieve.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i want to make this very short. i wonder why there has been active and massive, and sometimes aggressive, opposition to a treaty for weeks and months, when the treaty is not known to the colleagues who are opposing it. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are different opinions. this is acceptable in a democracy, and it is also good that there are different opinions and that they are discussed vigorously. but we should also take each other's views into account and vote on them. we have been discussing this treaty very seriously for weeks and months, and it is time to give a clear signal whether the majority of this house is for or against it. the demonstrations and the blocking of speeches that we have seen here could give the wrong impression in public. let the majority of this house decide this week whether it is for or against the treaty! that is democracy! (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health conditions in the community are not affected. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the worst part of this story is that these atrocities are not happening in distant countries, but - as committed activists from austria have told me - right on our doorstep. recently, cases of animal cruelty have been reported in the czech republic. it is also worrying that the commission has only stated succinctly that the protection of domestic animals remains a matter for the member states. the commission seems to be acting too often where it should not and too little where it should. this needs to change, because member state competence does not imply that the eu should stay out of a subject altogether. i therefore appeal to all members not to remain silent on the subject of slaughterhouses, even in their own countries. i would also appeal to the commission and the council to condemn such cruel machinations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think this debate is particularly good. however, i would like to warn against the abuse of transparency. some populists -- even if they're not in the room today -- abuse this debate in public, but they don't address the distinction between what's private and what's meaningful and good in public. we must not lose sight of this debate about privacy. we know that data protection has its justification. the european parliament's response to the future is to strike a balance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the union has known for years that it was struggling to get its finances under control. we are supporting large companies which then move from one member state to another, while small and mediumsized enterprises are left empty handed. the union often seems not even to know who it is supporting and who is influencing it. i think it is long overdue for a register of lobbyists. the number of irregularities, especially those directly linked to the eu institutions, is also a matter of taste. in this context, the freezing of eu funds to bulgaria until the corruption cases are clarified is an important signal. and then there is the fact that some member states seem to have little interest in recovering funds wrongly paid out. if we wait until now to complete the procedures of the 1990s, the mills of the european union are simply grinding too slowly!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. it is not easy to re-enter such a vast dossier, and i think we can be proud that mr musotto has done so brilliantly. we can say that today, since there will be no amendments to this report tomorrow. that too is a prize for the rapporteur. secondly, it seems that a section of the budgetary authority is not at all interested in what happens to taxpayers' money. the council is avoiding its responsibilities once again. it is simply not there when discussing the use of european taxpayers' money and looking for ways out of problematic situations. but we have seen - and i am also speaking about the question of how to proceed with the discharge in our committee - that for years in the field of agricultural policy, where we have acted decisively and developed systems to control direct expenditure, mismanagement has decreased. we see that in the area of structural policy, where nothing has been done, where we have been watching for years, the figures are going up. the fact that we, commissioner kallas, have a problem in this area in the discharge for 2006 and that we expect you to take action and not just watch has been clear for years, it has been repeated in the fraud reports for years. i would therefore like to ask you - and the rapporteur is saying this with the full support of all the speakers who have spoken so far - to say to those countries which are simply pretending that the rules we have jointly drawn up do not apply to them: 'ok, we are putting 10% of the funds in the freezer. we'll put in a reserve, and you'll get the money back if you've acted accordingly. this is a very specific demand of parliament. that means action, not action plans. we expect the commission to do so, and we are very pleased with you. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur again.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union is undoubtedly much more than a customs union. we are not going to be reduced to a customs union by today's discussion and tomorrow's decision. nevertheless, customs policy at the external borders is an important part of the european union's activities and of the functioning of the internal market. the ppe europe club in the european parliament welcomes the proposal for a regulation laying down the modernised community customs code. why would you do that? because the customs procedure has been streamlined, because the basis has been laid for simpler, faster, common customs procedures at the external border, because the radical changes in the environment in which international trade takes place, e.g. information technology, electronic data, etc., are taken into account, because customs agents are clearly defined and subject to clear common criteria, because professional reliability is strengthened and the necessary expertise is required. this regulation strengthens cooperation between the member states and the european union. it creates more common ground, as is also shown by the fact that all the parliament's amendments have been adopted by the council. i think it is easier, faster and more common to deal with them together, and that is good for business and for the european union as a whole.
the commission has already done so. once fanatics have wiped out innocent lives and bombed democratic societies, it's too late. it is therefore necessary to take all possible measures, particularly in the field of prevention, as commissioner frattini has also supported. dialogue as a key to tolerance must be placed at the forefront. but we also need to strengthen police cooperation, data exchange: everything that goes beyond the european union must be strengthened. i particularly welcome the fact that the commissioner has stressed the need to provide assistance to victims. it is not just about tolerance, but also about practical help. i want to emphasize here that there must be a monitoring of hate preachers, that is a necessity. but there must be consequences. the glorification of terrorism must never be accepted. so we need a zero-tolerance strategy for crimes against our society. i am very sorry that, on a subject which we have always discussed very seriously, national political disputes have once again been so strongly incorporated into this report.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to join the many congratulations to the rapporteurs. i have rarely seen in this house that a dossier which includes both increased consumer protection and facilitation for businesses has been discussed with so little controversy. i wrote the opinion on the schaldemose report. we in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety rejected the commission's proposal for a decision because we still do not know exactly why the legal form of a decision was chosen and why there is no binding legal regulation on such an important subject. nevertheless, i would like to wish the rapporteur from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection well and thank her. there was also great scepticism about the widespread application of the new approach because it is only a matter of self-declaration by the manufacturers and the new approach also weakens market surveillance because it reverses the burden of proof. we therefore strongly support the compromise that the new approach should be applied only on a case-by-case basis.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. i am the author of the opinion of the legal affairs committee on the proposal for a common legal framework for the marketing of products. we all agree - and the commissioner has also mentioned this - that product safety is a matter of credibility. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market is not a mere 'space' for the development of the single market. the legal affairs committee considered that the regulation had three main objectives. first, the design and manufacture of the product must comply with the applicable requirements. it is not just a question of the responsibility of the distributors, it is above all a question of the responsibility of the producers. traders and consumers must be able to rely on the economic operators who place the products on the community market. the obligation on traders should be limited to certain controls. the second point we focused on - and this is why i was particularly concerned - was the question of the role of importers, who have a special responsibility. importers cannot control the design and manufacturing of products, but they are obliged to ensure that products comply with all applicable legislation when they place them on the community market. the third point was a clear definition and demystifying of the ce marking, which is not a quality mark but only a mark that communicates that the products are in conformity with all applicable community legislation. we thank you for your cooperation and welcome the reports submitted for decision.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you for this report and point out that the eu ce marking stands for european quality and reliability of products. it must be clear that in future imported products will meet the exact same standards as those we have for products produced in the european union. only then will there be a level playing field. but it must also be possible to continue to display the recognised marks of the member states on the product, because we know that many consumers have great confidence in them. in conclusion, i would like to say that the additional labels for regional products or the organic labels for foodstuffs are very important, because we know that they enjoy great recognition and trust on the european market and beyond, and that must continue to be maintained.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report originally presented was a good report because it provided for clear support measures in the fight against terrorism, such as prevention, which should be strengthened, or enhanced police cooperation, increased data exchange and also assistance to victims of terrorism. but today's votes have changed the report completely. the report does not contain any essential elements, such as the fact that the jihadists are suddenly no longer a terrorist organization. other unacceptable positions have been incorporated into the report, so i had to vote against the report, as did the majority of the house. it is a pity that the original proposal was rejected, because it would have been good to have had in hand better political and technical instruments for combating terrorism and for greater security.
in writing. − a step in the right direction to shed some light on the jungle of aid and to make it easier for the ordinary citizen to access or gain insight into what is usually opaque. however, in this context, it is important to ensure that not only high-paid lobbyists benefit from such databases, but also that smes and ordinary citizens are given the opportunity to profit from the aid or subsidies of interest to them through logically understandable processes. as far as professional ethics for bodies is concerned, it is certainly to be welcomed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, caution is needed, for such control cannot go so far as to scan the organ and its members completely and create a glass man. in the context of data protection, however, such a regulation, i.e. a definition of a kind of professional ethics within the above-mentioned limits, is in any case to be welcomed. the establishment of a 'blacklist' will certainly require some discussion of how such implementation can take place, as data protection will again play a key role here.
in writing. - the fight against terrorism will be the challenge of our century. a decisive action against the propaganda machine is therefore a first small step to prevent the further spread of terrorism in the autonomous islamic subcultures that exist throughout europe. we must face the fact that terrorism in europe is purely islamic in nature and that radicalized muslims are completely immune to integration measures. the radicalization of europe is progressing, and there is often a sense of denial of reality on the part of the political class in this area. the european union must be able to take a more active role in the fight against terrorism, and this is why a strategic approach to combating terrorism is necessary and vital for europe to ensure the survival of the european peoples and their cultures. the approach must be taken by the young, but they must also show a certain willingness to do so. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the human rights situation in the world. however, toughness will be appropriate against terrorists. any illegal perception in the new media is, of course, to be prosecuted and punished like any other.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are basically two models for the future of the common europe: the model of a coherent, deepening common europe, as envisaged by the lisbon treaty, and the model of 'everyone chooses what is good for him'. now sweden has been in the european union for quite some time, along with austria and finland, but sweden is not a member of the eurozone. i ask the prime minister: are there any particular reasons for this? we would be happy to have the swedes in the eurozone.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr prime minister! you have referred to the common agricultural policy as the only truly community policy of the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there must also be continued planning and security for agriculture. i would remind you that in 2013 the european union budget for agriculture will be reduced to 35%. agriculture takes its responsibility to the citizens very seriously, as also stated in the treaties of rome: research, development, sustainability, environmental protection and employment in all regions of europe must be our common goal. i am really looking forward to an exciting swedish presidency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. the commission's communication on the integrated guidelines for growth and jobs, the joint text of the resolution of the five political groups on the 2008 spring european summit and the report by mr starkevičiūtė all praise the fifth freedom, the freedom of knowledge, which is intended to complement and level up the four freedoms hitherto known: the freedom to move goods, services, people and capital. i am reminded of a classic quote: "i hear the message, but i lack faith". for years we have heard this slogan of the knowledge-based society. now we're going to get back to it. but when it gets real, you hear very different messages. in recent years we have repeatedly discussed whether and to what extent the european union should have more powers in the field of knowledge and science. the argument has always been that this is something which the member states must not allow to be taken away from them, that this is their sacred reserve. we have heard the same thing over and over again on the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. vice-president verheugen has just mentioned the deplorable figures on research and development. i remember that there were repeated attempts to cut back, especially in the scientifically important exchange programmes. i think that this approach is therefore wrong. we need new instruments and we need new financial resources. a very specific proposal: 10% of all young people between 15 and 25 should study abroad for six months in europe. that would bring more knowledge and more flexibility and joyful learning!
the paradoxical situation, commissioner, seems to be that one european aviation safety authority is banning flying, while another, like the austrian one, is saying that it is possible. my question to you is: will the easa now find it easier to expand the powers we have decided in this area, especially since it seems that - as you have said - the company which manufactures these aircraft is currently experiencing some difficulties? if easa can now do what we have decided, namely impose penalties and not immediately withdraw the licence, will it feel better? i think that easa will have an easier time in the future with this enlargement we have decided on.
i'm not going to tell you. you said yourself that 60 percent of companies have no intention of doing anything. i ask you now: what does the commission intend to do? and my second question: we have also learned from a recent case in germany that these men - and they are mainly men - not only earn very well, but also do not want to tax what they earn, and therefore go to liechtenstein and elsewhere. what action does the commission intend to take in the future against such practices?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the house of lords! it took eight years, two conventions, three intergovernmental conferences and two draft treaties to reach the result we are now assessing. let me take this opportunity to thank you personally, after so long, for the privilege of representing this house in both conventions and of being rapporteur for both the charter and the constitution with andrew duff. it was the greatest honor of my political life. thank you, thank you. the content and achievements of this treaty have been described in detail. it's not a small thing! the foundations of the first supranational democracy in history are being laid. the most modern and comprehensive code of fundamental rights is to become european law. the establishment of social objectives and rights points the way to the next task: the creation and construction of a european social union. the union's legal personality transforms it from a forum of loose cooperation between states into a historic actor with its own responsibilities. if we succeed in bringing this treaty to life, then political union will go from being a project of the elites and the state chancellery to becoming a res publica. i am not sure, however, that we are aware today that we are making this assessment in a very difficult and special situation in european history. i read in the last issue of der spiegel the words of henry kissinger, former american secretary of state, who said that 'europeans do not want to understand'. although i understand mr schulz's first instinctive nod, i would like to quote an outside voice in this case. 'the first challenge of this era is the disappearance of the nation state in europe', says henry kissinger. and he writes: "the problem today is that the nation states have not only transferred parts of their sovereignty to the eu, but have also closely linked their vision for the future with the future of the european union. but the eu has no sense of vision and does not generate the same loyalties. a vacuum has been created between europe's past and its future. that is the best way to describe the moment we are in over this treaty. it throws a spotlight on what governments have done with the draft constitution. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good example of the need to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the use of asbestos. the power to make new beginnings, to create new orders, to bring new solutions, to start anew, over and over again, every day, that is europe. this power has been greatly weakened by the - i will say this once more quite openly - reactionary attitude of national governments and state chancelleries, which have taken away the power of the language of the european constitution and the spirit of departure associated with it. we must not lose sight of this awareness in the light of the real achievements of this treaty. after failing to make citizens sovereigns of the european union, the first task for the future of this parliament is to fulfil the spirit of this constitution, to make the union a union of citizens and no longer a union of states, and to find the strength to make european integration a res publica and to show the strength of europe to create new identities together with the citizens. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. there has been a lot of talk about what the people of europe want. i can therefore join my predecessor in saying that you want a stronger european union. why would you do that? some see globalization as a great opportunity and want europe to seize it. many - probably more - people see globalization as a threat. they are afraid of it, and they want europe to help them overcome the disadvantages of this globalisation. the question naturally arises in this context: what does the reform treaty achieve? the two rapporteurs have produced a very good report on this contract. the answer is clear: the treaty of reform strengthens this european union without, however, renouncing democracy. on the contrary, there is more democracy for the european parliament, for the national parliaments, and yet a capacity for action of the european union, which is established by this treaty. that's the key. i therefore believe that many of the interests of european citizens are well represented. what should we do with this capacity for joint action, which is certainly also and above all expressed in a high representative who, as vice-president of the commission, can do more for a common foreign and security policy? together, for example, with energy issues and with the additional energy competence that the treaty on the reform of the european union gives, we could finally pursue an effective energy foreign policy that puts us in a better starting position vis-à-vis russia and other major energy powers. together with our foreign trade expertise, we can also better represent the interests of our workers and our economy in international trade relations. together with the environmental expertise we have, we can also ensure that our mission trading and the other environmental goals we want to achieve do not result in our economy, our workers being harmed, but that the environment is seen as better globally. it is a great achievement of this reform treaty and i therefore strongly support the work of the rapporteurs to make the european union both more capable of action and more democratic.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is always said that this treaty of lisbon will make europe functional. they say this contract will be fruitful. as someone who is very critical of this treaty, i can only hope that this is the case for the sake of our children and grandchildren. because if it's not, if this contract is gonna lead us to a dead end, god help us. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the national parliaments are naturally marginalized. the plebiscites in france and the netherlands were, of course, reversed in a cold way. and it is likely that should ireland vote against this treaty, a means or a way will be found to ignore that vote. i am against this treaty because i am for europe!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the so-called eurobarometer always shows that around 30% of people in europe are eurosceptic and dissatisfied. that 30% is very interesting. they are particularly attractive to those protest parties and others who do not have their own content but who wish to participate in this 30%. they're attractive to those who don't have content to show off. europe-skepticism is a good way to hide. or they're attractive to those who have content that is fundamentally not accepted by others. the european parliament has a duty to protect the european union from the threat of terrorism. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. and against this background we also see the call for referenda. the people concerned are not interested in referenda. they are not interested in more democracy, but they are simply interested in activating this 30% protest potential and pushing it towards their goals. the same 30% of europe-sceptics are also interesting in another area. they are market potential for certain media. eu protest is a great selling point. newspapers are reporting it day after day. in austria - my country - one glance at the headlines is enough to know what is going on. it is not about the so-called high treason, it is not about the so-called eu theatre, but about asking those 30% to buy the daily paper again and again. who can be against a referendum? no one can be against a referendum, but then it would have to be called for much more often, and on many other issues as well. but that's not going to happen. so the protest is basically serving its own market potential, its own power potential, and not democracy. that's something to say on a day like today. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to know, commissioner, what the acceptance of the various protocols and texts of the reform treaty looks like. is there any analysis of which points are particularly well received by the population or which points are seen as problematic? do you have market research results on what the population thinks are the three most important objectives of this reform pact, so that we can see where the interests of the 500 million citizens lie in the fact that this reform pact is absolutely necessary? is there any analysis or market research on the quantitative and qualitative information of the population on this reform contract? this is the basis for recognizing the importance of this reform step for the european union. what steps do you, as commissioner, intend to take in the near future to make this information available to the public?
the european parliament's pes club voted with conviction in favour of the corbett/méndez de vigo report because the lisbon treaty strengthens the citizens of europe, the member states and the european union. the citizens of europe and the parliaments, the representatives of the citizens of europe, are the winners. we see the importance of this treaty in the light of the kosovo debate, because it gives us the possibility of a common foreign and security policy much more easily. we see that by enshrining the charter of fundamental rights we also have a working guide to make fundamental rights possible for all citizens in the european union. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not excluded from the decision-making process. we should continue to stand by the people and bring this treaty closer to the people.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the report with full conviction because there is a balance between economic and social measures which must be established, because for the first time a social europe is involved and because for the first time the member states are called upon by a large majority of parliament to introduce measures for the introduction of a minimum wage. i am glad that the majority has succeeded in preventing measures aimed at abolishing social gains such as the working time directive or taking social benefits across borders. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report on a european parliament resolution on the treaty of lisbon because this treaty is indispensable for the further development of europe, which is essential for the further development of the austrian prosperity model and the security of our citizens. i share the view that the treaty as a whole represents a substantial improvement on the previous treaties and ensures greater democratic control in the union. i see the democratic value of the european union firstly in the extension of the codecision procedure, secondly in the double majority voting mechanism, thirdly in the election of the president of the commission by a majority decision of the european parliament and lastly in the greater involvement of the national parliaments through the possibility of an objection against breaches of the distribution of competences and because of the possibility of an opinion by the national parliaments on all legislative initiatives of the eu.
in writing. - cultural differences can escalate at any time, as we have seen. in this respect, we in europe, particularly in the large urban centres, are sitting on a powder keg which should not be underestimated. in view of the periodic outbreaks of ethnic conflicts, it is therefore welcome that the eu finally seems to want to ask questions on ethnic origin and religion in an eu-wide census in 2011. statistical data on the ethnic and cultural composition of the resident population could be useful for violence prevention.
in writing. − this monday, the european parliament's research committee gave the go-ahead for the final adoption of the legal basis for the eiti. this means that all the questions of financing and content are settled and the eiti is ready to go. the european institute of innovation and technology is a key part of getting more for our economy, more for our science and more for sustainable jobs in europe. a rapid decision on the location of the eiti is therefore urgently needed. i therefore urge eu heads of state or government to agree on a precise timetable for decision-making at the eu spring summit. the decision must be taken at the eu summit in june at the latest. the austrian chancellor gusenbauer must also be committed to this timetable, since austria submitted an application that was very appropriate. the timetable for this decision must be agreed at the spring summit and be part of the summit's outcome document. in view of the excellent application of vienna as the location for the eiti, chancellor gusenbauer has a great responsibility for a quick decision and the establishment of a precise timetable.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the proposal for an eu strategy for central asia, as the five central asian republics are recipients of official development assistance and it is a special obligation of the european union to support these countries. i would like to emphasize the role of the european union as a mediator between the central asian countries in order to balance out the great differences in political, economic and social conditions between the five republics. i would like to draw attention to the fatal situation in the health sector, which is caused by a poorly developed medical care system. access to drinking water and electricity for the entire population is also a major problem, particularly in tajikistan, uzbekistan and the kyrgyz republic. it is important to me that by voting for an eu strategy for central asia i also vote for an improvement in the living conditions of the people of central asia in terms of social, health and legal aspects.
in writing. - strategic planning for central asia is certainly a sensible thing to do, and is necessary, particularly with a view to economic cooperation and market development. it is also, of course, sensible to speed up the pace a little to keep up with developments. but it is unacceptable that certain standards which are respected at european level should become negligible in central asia. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and consultation services, which will be available to all the countries of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of women's rights. however, child labour, which is particularly widespread in china, falls within the same standards as those already mentioned, which trade partners must respect. the fight against terrorism and drug trafficking, which are in some ways interrelated, must be at the top of the list of priorities and must be fought with all the necessary rigour.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, in your introduction you said that the commission does not want to go wild with this, but rather wants to explore, in consultation with the member states, whether something can be done about it. the commission itself, which is a collegiate body, does not always have a clear and uniform position on certain questions. in the transport sector, i see an issue which will present us with increasing difficulties in the coming years - and probably the commission as well - namely that under the heading of so-called cross-subsidisation, money earned in a less environmentally friendly sector - road tolls, parking fees and the like - is to be diverted to more environmentally friendly forms of transport. this is of course also a subsidy. is there any discussion and what is the situation?
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i understand the joy and the exultation of the kosovo albanians at their freedom and independence. but i also understand the distress and the grief of many serbs in kosovo, and of course in serbia itself. unfortunately, no other consensual solution has been found. the milošević regime has done everything but promote the integration of the population and show respect for the kosovo albanian citizens. i particularly welcome the decision of the european union to launch the eulex mission. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mr rupel very warmly for the way in which he has tried to reach agreement in the council in this difficult situation. this is very positive and should be clearly mentioned. but all the european aid that will now come is of no use unless the majority in kosovo itself commits itself to the creation of a multiethnic society in the european sense. much of what i have seen in the past few days, including the behavior of prime minister hashim thaçi, gives me courage and reason to hope that this multiethnic society is firmly anchored in the responsible minds of this country. we will see some demonstrations in the next few days, especially in serbia. we should be patient. we should shake hands with serbia. we should understand that there are almost collective feelings of loss here, and we should emphasize above all what minister jeremic said in committee today in parliament, namely the refusal to resort to violence and boycott measures. this is an essential element and also the basis for further talks with serbia. we want to accompany serbia on its way to the european union, but the decision has to be taken in belgrade. we cannot take that decision away from serbia. i know the situation in kosovo. a lot of people live next door. they may be at odds with each other now, but i believe that in kosovo they can be together. this cooperation must be the aim of our policy here in the european union and in the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
i welcome the fact that you are able to see the whole package here and to distinguish between medium and longterm strategies. you have indicated that there will be another summit soon. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
mr president, if there is one area in which the european union should take responsibility, as the people of europe have requested, it is the area of illegal immigration and immigration policy in general. i am not sure that the council is doing so, but i think that parliament and the commission are very committed here. you said that everyone knows what the council is doing on this issue. i know what he is doing, namely, to prevent, if possible, the creation of european competences which would be absolutely necessary. he's been doing that for years. i'd like to know what makes you so optimistic that things are going to change here, and what concrete actions are you taking to make things change here?
as the word flexicurity suggests, it should ideally be the link between flexibility and security. in this connection, there was a debate this morning and also a proposal from parliament to introduce a minimum wage in the member states in accordance with the standards of the member states. what will the presidency of the council do to ensure that the minimum wage is actually implemented in the individual member states in the foreseeable future?
i think, in principle, that this mission -- and it has to be done professionally, of course -- makes sense because it does exactly what we talked about earlier in the migration debate, which is to create security where migrants come from. i do not understand why some hypocritical austrian right-wing populists are against this. what concerns me is that there is a constant debate about whether the french army in particular is neutral in this mission vis-à-vis the parties to the conflict. i'd be interested to know what information you have on this and how you can ensure that the mission is neutral overall to all parties to the conflict. i would also like to take this opportunity to wish the soldiers there well!
my question relates to the telecommunications package presented by the commission, which provides new opportunities for television activities through the digital dividend, i.e. the new use of the digital spectrum allocated by the commission. do you see a need to amend the television directive in the light of the new technical regulations?
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. - mr president, i have to say something. yeah, why are we having fewer and fewer babies? the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. thank you, mrs castex. so how can you help women to fulfill their desire to have children? first, equal pay for equal work. only then can a couple decide on equal terms who will take parental leave when a child is born. secondly, both parents are equally responsible for the education of their children. we need the fathers' help. if i had not the support of the fathers of my four children, it would be impossible for me to work here. thirdly, employers must encourage parental leave for their employees, with government support if necessary. a state that wants children must put children at the centre of its policy. fourthly, quality childcare and a child-friendly environment, regardless of the income of the child's parents. if you don't want to hear about it, you can't expect a child's laugh.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are discussing today, at a late hour, a report on the demographic future of europe, and this almost to the exclusion of the public. the rapporteur deserves the highest praise for this report, because it has dealt with our existential socio-political and social questions. the result should be a must-read for all parliamentarians who hide behind everyday political pragmatism and ignorance of reality. the report shows how and where the coldness of the economy and the exclusive pursuit of profit can be corrected by social warmth. development forecasts are there to open our eyes and to develop a political philosophy of a non-exclusive society. this concerns the question of the constantly changing and supplementary concept of the family and the question of whether child wars in our rich society today are linked to fears of poverty. in the industrial sector, it is still the custom for managers who have never learned to live in society to refuse parental leave. in addition, undefinable and above all incalculable employment relationships and jobs call into question the "affordability" of child warfare. the additional measures outlined in the report are necessary to make a demographic development a win-win situation. one thing is certain: tomorrow's society will look different. whether the generational conflict becomes a socio-political apocalypse and whether the potential for conflict between rich and poor is intensified depends, at this moment, on the willingness of politicians to think politically and to act socially. this report is more than a bad weather forecast to be expected today, because it may be nice again tomorrow. this report is a clear mandate to change and expand our social society and, above all, an opportunity to improve our personal understanding of society. i thank the rapporteur again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when do the citizens need european solidarity? when does the member state need european solidarity? but first and foremost in the event of a disaster. it is therefore incomprehensible to me that a decision taken by parliament in 2006 to adapt the solidarity fund as mentioned in paragraph 45 of the cohesion report has not been implemented to date. i therefore ask everyone, parliament and the commission, to urge the council to find a solution to this problem very quickly, because the next disaster is certain to come.
the commission has already done so. i am the rapporteur on urban mobility. the question of the relationship between the city and the surrounding countryside is of particular importance in our reflections. we are also aware that the new member states are facing major problems in organising their infrastructure in such a way that we can stick to more environmentally friendly modes of transport rather than having to restructure everything back to cars. in this context, may i expressly ask the commission to help us, within the framework of its regional policy possibilities, to seek and find solutions to the problem of urban transport and social cohesion in the new member states.
in writing. the enlargement of the eu on 1 may 2004 has widened economic and social disparities within the eu. in january this year, a new programme period for cohesion policy began. this will focus on new priorities or objectives: environmental protection, competitiveness and the creation of more and better jobs. the eu's cohesion policy is designed to help make europe and its regions more competitive, through four individual programmes, for example through innovation, building the knowledge society and strengthening economic competitiveness. the aim is to improve the attractiveness of regions for investors and residents through sustainable regional development. the aim is to create better and, above all, more jobs and to develop the regions to promote opportunities and reduce disparities. with the enlargement of the eu, eu funds must now be distributed among the 27 countries. the funds must therefore be used more efficiently, better and more transparently. as regards the financial framework, the european council has allocated eur 307.6 billion for the period 2007-13. that's a lot of money. it is important that regions with development problems in rich member states such as austria also receive a fair share of the funding. in particular, mountain regions need to be further promoted.
in writing. - i am in favour of the 'single market package for goods' because it is essential that there is a single european framework for the marketing of goods abroad. in particular, in a common internal market based on the principles of technical harmonisation of the rules governing the marketing of products on the european market and the principle of mutual recognition, the marketing of products already authorised in one member state must not be seriously delayed or, at worst, prevented on the market of another member state by official means. i therefore welcome the reports by mr schaldemose and mr brie, who support the reduction of the number of routes for the authorities and the establishment of a common legal framework for future sectoral legislation, so that in future as much coherence as is politically and technically feasible is guaranteed. in conclusion, however, i would point out that the two proposals still need to be refined in order to clarify important concepts and, above all, the scope of the legal framework. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer is a very important one.
in writing. the package on the marketing of products in europe agreed today is undoubtedly an improvement for consumers. the problems with imported toys over the past year have clearly demonstrated that there is a clear need for action and that it must be possible to hold importers more accountable for the safety of products. the important thing is that parliament has achieved a lower level of implementation of the new approach and that its application needs to be assessed on a case-by-case basis. the current handling of the ce marking cannot be satisfactory. it is certainly not a quality mark of a product made in europe, which is suggested to many consumers in the form in which it is presented and which is therefore very misleading.
in writing. - one thing must be said in advance: the israeli embargo is clearly an act contrary to international law and cannot be accepted in this form. the embargo and the denial of drinking water and food by israel artificially creates a situation for the people of the gaza strip that is unprecedentedly inhuman and degrading. the egyptian government and the cool head of the border police there have avoided a major disaster and provided the most necessary for people who were not even involved in the conflict. it is irresponsible, however, to shift the blame onto egypt, which in the present situation is not to blame for the escalation. in the 21st century, it is unacceptable that the civilian population should be made the scapegoat for hamas' terrorist acts. the infrastructure must therefore be restored immediately and the supply of the population must be guaranteed. the palestinian side should do all it can to bring about de-escalation in order to conclude an agreement by the end of 2008. in the present situation, however, this noble task seems to be a long way off.
in writing. - i am in favour of a cohesion policy in relation to the demographic development of the european union, since the structural change in the age pyramid of european society is leading to a worrying future. i would point out that all the industrial countries of europe are faced with the same serious social problems which are seriously endangering the very model of european social statehood which is fundamental to our prosperity today. in this context, i would like to emphasise in particular the increase in the population over 65 to 53% by 2050 brought about by the extremely low current birth rate of 1.5 , which not only leads to generational conflicts and is therefore seen as an obstacle to social cohesion within a society, but could also affect europe's international economic competitiveness. this demographic change requires a general adjustment of the individual social systems and a rapid and efficient implementation.
in writing. - mass immigration and ageing threaten the survival of the indigenous population. the former is touted as a miracle cure for rejuvenation, but it only leads to ethnomorphosis, that is, to repopulation. if the eu establishment does not finally advocate a pro-natalist policy for the indigenous europeans and for the traditional family with more than one child, and if it does not oppose attempts to destroy the traditional family, such as through gay marriages, and if it does not also implement zero immigration in the area of family reunification, we will probably be talking about the kosovoisation of europe in about 50 years, as we are talking about the kosovo issue these days. the report once again attempts to sell immigration as a cure, whereby the indigenous population will soon have to adapt to the migrants. that is why i have rejected today's report.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to join in the expressions of solidarity with the severely wounded president of east timor, but also with the expressions of solidarity with the people of east timor, who have had to fight for a very long time for independence and for their rights. parliament condemned in the strongest terms the attempted assassination of president ramos-horta. the attacks were carried out after the president tried to negotiate a settlement with the rebels. as the exact sequence of events is still unclear, we are calling for a thorough, rigorous investigation of the attack as well as an investigation of the failure of the security system. we welcome the joint investigation already initiated by the united nations and the east timorese police forces. we call for a ban on all paramilitary groups and armed gangs and for more funds to support the necessary reforms of the security sector in east timor.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the situation in north kivu is worse than in darfur, according to aid organisations. north kivu is not in the spotlight of world politics, no one looks at north kivu. since the official peace agreement in 2002, the kabila government has been trying to integrate regional militias into a national army without much success so far. the civilian population continues to be exposed to the consequences of armed conflicts. msf points to the difficulties humanitarian workers face in accessing civilians due to the ongoing fighting, and identifies malnutrition as another form of extreme vulnerability faced by the population in north kivu. we therefore call on the council and the commission to release aid immediately and to launch without delay large-scale medical aid programmes for the civilian population in the east of the democratic republic of congo. we also call on the council and the commission to ensure that the recent reinforcement of the un mission leads to a significant improvement in the security of the population.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a request to make of you . there's a discussion on the lamfalussy trial on tuesday afternoon. i understand mr. mccreevy can't be here today. we have to accept that. the commission is a collegiate body and each commissioner can represent another commissioner. i appreciate mrs fischer boel's work as commissioner, but in this case, would it not be possible to ask mr almunia, who is more experienced in this matter, to represent the commission? mr president, i believe you have received the news that commissioner frattini will no longer be acting as commissioner as from 14 march. we see here a certain difference between the frattini case and the louis michel case. mr michel has not been in office since the day he stood as a candidate. perhaps the president can ask the commission to explain why a distinction is made here and to explain why in one case the commissioner concerned has not been in office since the day of his nomination, while in the other case he has not been in office for about a week. that is my request on behalf of my group!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we want to support this, for once. i would also like to say to mr posselt that his group has specifically requested 'instead of afghanistan'. you're not supposed to talk yourself out of it now, you're supposed to think about what you're asking for beforehand. but in this case, mr president, we can support this compromise.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have discussed here many times whether the beijing olympics are positive or negative for the human rights situation in china as a whole. that's a bit of a moot point. it is not disputed in my view that these games seem to be terrible for animal welfare in china. i read today that beijing plans to kill 200,000 cats, cage them, starve them, dehydrate them, or poison them, on the grounds that the guests might not like the fact that there are cats there. this is something that cannot be taken for granted. i think you have to think about whether you should watch these games at all. as an athlete, you should be thinking about whether you should participate in these games, and as an organizer, you should be thinking about whether the award was a good decision. but what we should not consider is that you, madam president, might say that this is not right for this house. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the history of data exchange between the us and the eu has been fraught with enormous problems from the very beginning. the debate on passenger data sharing and the difficulty of the convention and the legal basis for it have already shown us that there is simply no balance in the negotiations. the demands of the us side are constantly being increased and extended to other materials, while the european union is having difficulty speaking with one voice and constantly rejecting the excesses of these demands. these questions are of great concern to european citizens, particularly in the field of data protection. there is a fear that the data may be misused, and this is why the european union's approach - whether in terms of data transfer or visa policy - is being followed with enormous interest. we must not allow the differences that are being made here, because we weaken each other by doing so. but we cannot allow the united states to pick out a few countries which are treated differently with special demands and special desires. the commission is required to do two things in this matter: it is not just the common approach, but above all backbone, backbone and backbone again. the constant bowing to the united states only leads to further lust.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have a case here which is somewhat at odds with competition law and does not fall under it 100%, but which nevertheless exceeds a critical mass which is very problematic. it will ultimately be more than difficult for national data protection authorities and data protection laws to prosecute violations of these mergers because the processing of the data that is then done through doubleclick is further processed in a very different way. we have a technical difficulty to solve. that is why i believe that the concentration of so much potential in one hand is more than negative for the market, it excludes new competitors from the market.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not this dossier has a very long history and i would like to take this opportunity to thank mr costa once again. in the negotiations with the council, he has always felt bound by the position which was jointly developed and supported by the members of parliament in committee. one of the points of contention, as mentioned earlier, was the question of funding security measures - the reason for this is also quite obvious. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the airlines is not compromised. i think that is why there has been a certain amount of resistance in the council to a regulation which has called for more transparency here, and it was quite clear and unanimous in our group that we want transparent rules on funding which are understandable and are intended to help to avoid problems. the second point was the provision for parliament to be more closely involved in the development of the safety rules. there was also enormous resistance here, which was not understandable to me, because the european parliament was basically just trying to show a way out, for example, of how to get out of measures once adopted, if they no longer prove to be effective. i can barely bear the compromise, but i wish i had more.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. passenger safety is a high priority. but how is it actually protected? in the words of the italian trainer trappatoni, it would probably be: "lower your seat belts, empty your bottle, take off your shoes!" do these measures really guarantee anything other than additional jobs for poorly paid and poorly trained security forces? in addition, the long lines at airports and the hassle and economic disadvantages are once again linked to europe, even though it is often the diligence of local and regional sheriffs that has these unpleasant consequences. this can't be the ultimate wisdom! let us revise the implementing rules on liquids as quickly as possible and replace them with more and better technologies and better cooperation between the security services.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, and i know that commissioner barrot is also a champion of a sustainable transport policy. transport in particular can threaten our economic growth in europe if it does not function properly. we need more europe here, not less. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must therefore try to find european solutions, as in the case of the air transport package and the railway package. i can only ask the commission to step up its efforts to find other, better european solutions. but one prerequisite for this is certainly that we find prices for the different modes of transport which reflect their total costs. the commission's approach is right here too, starting with road transport. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. commissioner, you have been to tyrol, a sensitive alpine region, and you know what heavy goods traffic does there. we also see from these effects that there is a great need for action to introduce the eurovignette, to really put forward the framework you have announced and to continue working hard to implement cost-effectiveness in road transport. i must also criticise my own group. the group of the european people's party has voted in favour of amendment no 1. i would like to expressly oppose this and assure my austrian colleagues and myself of our full support for ensuring that the commission presents this overall framework in june, starting with road transport, and not postponing its presentation until st nimmerland day, on the grounds that the package must apply to all modes of transport. there is a great need for action! let's start with the traffic.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to focus on three points in the excellent report by our colleague mr gabriele albertini. first of all, as rapporteur on urban mobility, i am pleased that he has already given us some very important and groundbreaking messages in his report on this important subject. i think we will continue the discussion in our committee and later in the plenary in this direction. mr barrot, vice-president of the commission. you 've already mentioned it . we hope that the initiatives which the commission will take in this particular area during this parliamentary term will be very pleasing. the second point concerns the internalisation of external costs, which has also been mentioned. each transport operator must bear the costs actually incurred by it. in this respect, it is a very important issue, which we have already raised in the eurovignette debate, that heavy goods traffic in particular should actually bear all the costs which are reasonable because they are caused by it. the members who have expressed their criticism have already fled into the night. i am assuming that there will be not only supporters of amendment no 1 in the epp-ed group, but also a number of opponents. we shall in any case vote against amendment no 1. the third point which i think is important is addressed in paragraph 22: the subject of research. the point here is that the industry must be given clear objectives, clear directions on where the journey in the european transport sector should go, only then will they deliver what we need on time and at reasonable prices. i would like to thank commissioner barrot once again for having such a dedicated programme for this parliamentary term. we need it, and the environment, but also traffic will thank him. i would like to say to the parliamentary critic in the back row: i walk to and from the hotel every day in strasbourg for half an hour, so i don't need the limousine or the tram.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not mr nassauer, our president of the commission is not so weak, he will be able to withstand some criticism. but i believe, mr president of the commission, that our common objective - as i listen to your speeches and read your interviews - is that in 2009 we will continue to build up a social and ecological europe in a globalised world. you know that we are particularly concerned about social matters and you also know that we were particularly affected by the findings of the european court of justice in the laval case. we hope that we can work together - parliament and you from the commission - to ensure that citizens do not feel that hard-won social gains are being destroyed by a false competition in quantity. we are in favour of quality competition within europe, which europe must of course conduct in a manner which takes account of environmental concerns. but the social element is central to us as social democrats. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we are committed, as they are, to the sustainable development of this continent, but for us, sustainability also includes the industrial centre of europe, an industrial centre which must adapt, which must adopt ecological objectives, where there must be constraints and incentives. we must work together to ensure that industry and the economy continue to play a major role in the future in terms of production on this continent - in the interests of jobs - because the environmental objectives are fully compatible with the industrial location of europe. this is also a task which we must carry out together. we can only do this if we get the other partners - the us, china and india - to adopt similar environmental objectives. and we can only fulfill them if we reach out to our neighbourhood, if we make common policies with our neighbours. you know that we are not entirely satisfied with some of the strategies that have been developed. as regards the balkans, for example, we recently proposed that there should be a so-called ljubljana process alongside the lisbon process, with the slovenian presidency, to promote the economic and social development of this region, because hatred and the conflicts that exist there can only be overcome if there is also a healthy economic and social development in the balkans. the commission's position on the mediterranean union - which is now on everyone's lips, including the foreign ministers - is clear. you have already indicated this, mr president of the commission, but you must make it clear again and again: we cannot have a union which does not include the whole of the european union. it must be a community which does not cross the european union but which includes the european union and the mediterranean countries. the same is certainly true of the black sea region, and we are waiting for initiatives from the commission. because it is not just our neighbours to the south, it is also our neighbours to the east. we cannot offer new memberships at short notice here either, that is not possible. but we can offer to develop closer cooperation with these countries, and we expect more initiatives from the commission than have been contained in the present papers. mr president of the commission! you've cut it: it's also an election year. it is an election year and hopefully the year of the entry into force of the reform treaty. we do not expect the commission to interfere in the political debates of this election year, but we do expect the commission to have a clear vision of how this europe should work in the future, as an ecological and social europe. we expect the commission to make it clear that it has a strong voice also vis-à-vis our partners . because only if we speak with a strong voice to the us and china and so on can we assert the interests of our citizens. we want this in an election year too: a strong commission with visions for the europe of tomorrow!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not alone in its concern. with an annual strategy, you have a choice between two paths. the first would be maximum clarity and a high degree of consistency between statements and financial action. this would be particularly appropriate in an election year, as the promise is to put the citizen first. citizens have a right to clarity. the commission has unfortunately chosen the second possible route, namely to remain as general as possible in order to cover up any objections. first of all, the context is interesting. we have to ensure that the treaty of lisbon is implemented. we have an election year and we have a year in which europe has also made a very strong international commitment to climate protection. unfortunately, too few words have been followed up by action, and the strategy does not make this clear enough. if we remain so hesitant about concrete measures, such as the emission levels for cars, then europe's credibility is at stake, and we cannot afford to do that in the long term in the international debates with our partners on climate change. this is a negative example of the fact that the big lobbies have been duped, as was the case with the introduction of the emissions trading system in aviation, where too little has been done and too little has been done, so that the necessary measures to reduce the climate damage caused by aviation will not be implemented in a sufficiently efficient manner. there is also a contradiction between the ambitious objectives and the actual funding of research. if we talk about new sources of energy on the one hand, but on the other hand the lion's share of research funds is still allocated to nuclear energy, to the nuclear industry, then this contradiction cannot be resolved, and we cannot have a viable solution because there are no opportunities to invest in a truly targeted way. what i find very lacking in this strategy is a clear commitment to the implementation of community law in the member states. there are far too few mechanisms, far too little attention to it. on the contrary, new plans are developed before the old ones are implemented. i am simply referring to the energy action plan. if we care about our citizens as you rightly say, then the complaints of citizens and the new referendum opportunity must be the focus of our attention in this house.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. priorities 2009: priorities are credible if we can also point to how we have dealt with priorities of the past in a serious, efficient and understandable way for the citizen. i would therefore ask you, in the 2009 election year, to take stock of the priorities of the past few years, how they have been implemented and to develop a communication strategy with the citizens. and secondly, cutting red tape is a permanent priority, which also builds trust among citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises . i miss the small business act. please build trust so that we can also increase the turnout for the 2009 european elections. this too must be a political priority! (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to start by apologising for leaving after my speech because i have to speak to president pöttering. i would like to thank my colleague, mr paasilinna, very warmly for his commitment to this matter and also the commissioner, who has always been very supportive. in fact, i believe that this eit is an important european instrument. mr paasilinna has already said that we in europe are spending too little on research and development and too little on research excellence. in europe as a whole and in most countries - at least in most member states - there could, should and should be more. the eit is not a competitor institution, but it is supposed to promote this research, to set new initiatives. i think, for example, that it is important in the energy sector alone that we make more research efforts to develop new energy technologies. and because it is so important, i ask the commissioner to really insist that the necessary decisions be taken quickly. a decision is, of course, a decision on the seat of the administrative unit. as a viennese and austrian, i would naturally wish that the seat was vienna. but whatever decision is taken, it should be taken quickly so that the eit can start work soon.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i didn't understand you at first. i voted for this report because this new regulation strikes a good balance between meaningful counter-terrorism measures on the one hand and passenger rights on the other. i would like to draw attention to one point which has not yet been satisfactorily regulated, namely the regulation on the carriage of liquids. we know that the controls are supposed to prevent terrorism, but the different interpretations of these controls at the various airports cause a lot of trouble for passengers. it remains to be seen whether this is an effective instrument or not. i very much doubt that, because terrorists have long since developed other strategies and found ways. i would like the following assessment to be made: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of passengers is not compromised.
the new institution which is to be created here seems to me to be absolutely justified and sensible in view of the objective pursued, and i therefore support the report and this institution. the european union - and we - must make a huge effort to be able to compete successfully with the other economic areas in the technological field, but - and here i come to the crucial point - i would like to ask the commission once again to examine the 32 agencies, and this is another one of them, in terms of their usefulness and efficiency, to carry out a health check on agencies, so to speak, and to close down agencies that are no longer useful and are not working efficiently in the interests of the taxpayers. i hope - and this is a request to the commission, which is meeting this afternoon and has this on its agenda - that the commission will finally get around to having this health check for agencies done today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the report because i believe that it is firstly good and secondly that it points in the right direction. the transport sector must assume its overall responsibility, particularly when it comes to environmental objectives, but also when it comes to achieving the lisbon target. i am particularly pleased that amendment no 5 has been adopted, which calls for the european union to finally ratify the alpine convention, not just sign it. it is also good that amendment no 1 was rejected and the original text was retained, i.e. that we should start internalising external costs with road transport. it is a pity that amendment no 7 has been rejected. the aim would have been to integrate the seventh research framework programme better and to make it more traffic-oriented. in conclusion, i would advise my british colleagues who are so critical of the union to read the texts a little more carefully, because a lot of it is in the conjunction. these are can-do provisions and whether a country as large as the united kingdom will then introduce these measures or not is a matter of national discretion.
in writing. - it may be useful to look at new technologies at community level or with financial support to reduce co2 emissions from steel production. the increasing demand in emerging countries and some natural disasters that have made mining impossible have led to a shortage of this raw material, which has resulted in record prices for coal and steel. it is high time that we finally looked for alternatives to the increasingly depleted coal resource. it is also highly questionable how former associations such as the ecsc or euratom, which have long since been absorbed into the eu, can still have their own assets, programmes, etc. this is also in the context of the fact that member states which are opposed to nuclear power, for example, are nevertheless constantly obliged to finance its research and development. it's time to think about that.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i am very much in favour of harmonizing standards and regulations at european level, since only an efficient and rapid adaptation of the new directives will protect the safety of air passengers and their rights. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, and i would like to thank him for his work in this area. i also support the safety provisions which allow the carrying of weapons only in the cargo hold and only in exceptional cases with a governmental authorization. on the controversial question of financing, i support the compromise reached that each member state should decide for itself to what extent the costs of security measures should be borne by airport facilities, airlines and users themselves. however, it is clarified that the costs are directly related to the provision of the security and only the actual costs may be covered. the commission is also asked to present a report on the financing of the costs by the end of the year and, if necessary, a legislative proposal.
in writing. - after natural disasters and so on, the focus is on rapid temporary accommodation, on temporary repairs to essential infrastructure such as power lines, roads and bridges, and on getting hospitals back up and running, with the solidarity fund being a great help. the thousands of hours of unpaid work by the emergency services and the suffering of those affected are priceless. the solidarity fund must strike a delicate balance between disbursing funds quickly and without red tape, while ensuring that they are not misused. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the people of the european union. however, these incidents should not be used to establish an eu civil protection agency or an eu disaster response force, as these would not be able to provide effective protection against natural disasters, but would only add to the red tape and costs.
in writing. - i am in favour of harmonising transport, environment and energy policies within the european union, because only a concerted effort in these three sectors can lead to a lasting improvement in each. i would like to support the development of a generally valid, transparent and comprehensible model for the assessment of external costs of all modes of transport. i therefore vote against amendment no 1, which i believe is aimed at delaying the internalisation of internal road transport costs. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. the constantly increasing volume of traffic and the resulting environmental impact make it necessary to promote intensive cooperation at european level in the field of new technologies and alternative fuels in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and improve the quality of life in areas with heavy traffic. i also call for the average emission of new vehicles to be reduced to 125 g co2/km through technological improvements in the transport sector and the use of biofuels.
in writing. − to discourage people from going to work despite the many action plans, motorists are now being urged to cycle, walk or use public transport more often. but then one must also be aware that this is the result of poorly coordinated, dead-saving public transport, the boom in the settlement of shopping centres on the outskirts of cities with the simultaneous decline of local services, declining quality of housing in the city centre, increasing crime rates and ghettoization in foreign neighborhoods and not least the extension of working distances through displacement and the increasing flexibility of working hours and conditions and the associated role of the car as a prerequisite for employment. in this sense, and given that cars themselves account for only about 10% of particulate matter emissions, the eu is only going to take on more responsibilities and set up pointless monitoring stations. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's transport policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road.
in writing. − the albertini report notes that better internalisation of external costs can help avoid market disruption and the increase in emissions. i therefore voted against amendment no 1 because it aims to delay the internalisation of external costs for road transport. this is a false signal, as road transport is the main source of transport emissions. i hope that the revision of the road costs directive announced by the commission will bring rapid progress in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. milk is a very sensitive product and i would like to thank mrs jeggle very much for the good compromise. i particularly welcome the voluntary increase in milk quotas in the member states. but i would like to point out the following: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think this is where we should start the discussion. it is also essential that milk production can continue in the mountain areas and in disadvantaged areas, because it is often the only production that takes place there. we need a special program here.
in writing. the health check is an important process in the reform of agricultural policy, especially in mountain areas. in these countries, the extension of the milk quota is essential. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the work of the miners is made difficult by difficult access and steep transport routes, which must be taken into account. the milk quota system is essential for austrian farmers. eu-wide balancing or trading of quotas should be considered. if the quantity regulation were to be abolished in 2015, financial compensatory measures with additional budgetary resources would be required to maintain milk production and processing in mountain and grassland regions. the specific situation of mountain farming must not be overlooked in any way in the review of the efficiency of market support instruments and their restructuring and adaptation to the present situation. milk production and processing is a very important part of agriculture in these regions and is of very high importance. particular attention must be paid to the economic, social and environmental consequences of any increase or abolition of quotas, particularly in mountain areas. the complete abolition of eu quantity arrangements is the wrong way forward in europe's common agricultural policy.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! i also thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. it also shows that the approval in the committee on agriculture and rural development was 82%, including the 17 major compromises it has made. the reforms in 2003/2004 were important steps in the process of reforming the cap. a thorough review of the cap, without implying a fundamental reform of existing policy, is another important step towards ensuring a modern, multifunctional and competitive common european agricultural policy. it is scientifically documented that good agricultural practice is the basis, whether large or small. the first priority is still food production, the second priority is animal feed production and the third priority is energy supply. as regards the environmental impact of bioenergy, austrian agriculture, for example, has reduced co2 emissions by 14% since 1990, thus effectively meeting the kyoto target. i also welcome the end of degression. the progressive modulation model is the way to go, and i support the numbers here as well. i thank the commissioner for her comments on milk. i would like to say that we need not only a soft landing and a gentle transition by 2015, but also sustainable solutions after 2015. for mountain and less-favoured areas and peripheral areas, it is necessary to ensure that after 2015 farming with raw fodder-consuming livestock units can continue. i therefore look forward, madam commissioner, to the commission's legislative proposal on 20 may, and i hope that we will find in it much of what the goepel report brings now, so that we do not have this long debate again ... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker.)
i have to say, madam president, financial stability through crisis management must now be a precondition for enhancing regulatory convergence. the aim is to draw lessons from the financial crises and from the unprecedented developments in the financial industry, which are no longer compatible with an adequate macroeconomics. this means that a lasting foundation for the lamfalussy procedure has to be laid before 2008. the needs of market participants require a flexible regulatory procedure. the conditions for this must be that the supervisory action is guaranteed by parliamentary control and that the rights of parliament are guaranteed. there is no transparent control without parliamentarism. our path leads straight through the lead supervisor into a system of european supervisors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial markets are not affected by the excessive deficit. and for the commission to be able to take intermediate steps towards that end, it must be an actor, not just a facilitator.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the lamfalussy procedure has been a welcome accompaniment to this particular focus on financial mechanisms for many years. on the other hand, we have also tried time and again, in the normal constitutional debate, to keep democratic legislation in place where we have delegated legislation from european institutions. in both cases we have the same problem: to ensure that we can ensure a minimum of transparency on the one hand and that parliament is also adequately involved in this control on the other. is there any concrete effort to bring the general discussions in the context of comitology and the lamfalussy procedure in particular closer together so that we do not continue to have this multiplicity of procedures and thus lose some of our transparency again?
there is also a lot of historical tension in the relations between the three countries - the czech republic, germany and austria. is there any specific programme or does the commission intend to set priorities in this area, for example to involve the displaced persons' associations, which would be very important for a better common understanding of this particular issue in such european programme work?
i would like to know, commissioner, whether the partnership agreements with developing countries include renewable energy strategies, because it is of course important to us that wherever production is at an exemplary level, costs are reduced as much as possible, while the consumption of harmful goods is also taxed accordingly. can you imagine that being included in such agreements?
the commission has already done so. all that we are hearing today and all the demands we are putting on the table are not new. we repeat this, whether in the report 'women and industry', 'women and health' or 'women in rural areas'. we have not yet achieved equal pay for equal work, more women in leadership positions and more flexible childcare. all these problems are multiplying in rural areas. the distance between home and work, and the poor transport links, are a major problem. the lack of training on the ground is also problematic. as mentioned earlier, broadband access is also a must today, but a lack in rural areas. this means that we need action and above all we need to create awareness of the situation of women in rural areas. but it also means that we need to make all eu funding programmes - whether for rural development, the social fund or the like - more gender-sensitive and make programmes dependent on how they are used. austria is a pioneer in this field and will have a law on gender budgeting from 2009 onwards which takes all gender aspects into account. i think that's a good example.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this report is very important to all of us because, of course, the data is the basis for policy decisions. it is therefore important to distinguish between financial and commodity transactions in future. we all know how energy prices are affected by the different sectors. but the distinction between production, trade and consumption also plays an important role. we should start here with intelligent metering, not just at the consumer but at the various measuring points. in addition, we are interested in the methods used to manage the various costs of statistics. we want to avoid bureaucracy and also to make statistics more efficient. the methodology used here will therefore be important for future application: random sampling, fully automated evaluation, just-in-time, non-decrypting, comparable across the eu, but also comparable globally. proportionality for the different carriers is also important. we should ensure that the criterion of security of supply is transparent for all, that there is a distinction between costs and prices and, of course, that the sustainability of the whole system is guaranteed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is the second report on statistics today, and i would remind the commission that we have actually set ourselves the objective of reducing administrative expenditure by 25%, because there is a constant cry from those concerned, particularly in the field of statistics, not to have too much effort and expense involved. i am very much of the opinion that the sustainable use of plant protection products is very important for the future development of genetics and biotechnology, and i also believe that the risk indicators for human health and the environment are of particular importance. but we should not forget the general objective of the lisbon agenda, which is employment and ultimately growth in these areas, and we should not make the requirements more burdensome by bureaucratic requirements such as the collection of statistics, which in many areas can be obtained very easily.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the spring summit will also seem to be about the mediterranean union, for which neither the structure nor the framework, nor even the financing, have been clarified at present. this discussion may put other economic policy issues, such as the implementation of the lisbon strategy or the economic recovery in the wake of the international financial crisis, in the background. first we had the baltic sea council, then the euro-mediterranean partnership. so the ocean regions are working together in many different ways. the argument that a mediterranean union would strengthen cooperation between governments in order to deal with illegal migrants is, in my view, only an excuse. it would also be wrong to continue to give financial support to african countries under the guise of neighbourly relations without any conditions being attached to it. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. in general, therefore, financial assistance should be linked to the conclusion of a readmission agreement for illegal refugees or packages of measures to prevent illegal flight.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. unemployment is falling, the european union is the winner of globalisation, we are better than the united states, the european union is on the right track. let us continue along this path with consistency, commitment and confidence. let us make the member states more committed. let's make our achievements and goals public. secondly, climate change and the reduction of energy dependence must give new impetus to research, innovation, growth and employment. thirdly, let us be frank: the euro/dollar exchange rate is moderating the increase in energy prices: the increase in the euro is 160%, the increase in the dollar is 340%. fourthly, the euro, enlargement, the internal market, the lisbon strategy, the lisbon treaty, the strengthening of the social market economy and the consolidation of fundamental social rights are all part of the overall package with which we want to continue the successful course of the european union. fifthly, education, training, research, innovation, and the reform of social, health and pension systems are the major additional tasks we face. sixthly, mr president of the commission, the barroso eiti must be included in the final document of the spring summit, namely with the date on which the location will be decided. parliament has created the financial conditions. seventhly, the small business act, i will make it clear, will also bring about an additional initiative by parliament. the sme intergroup will present the principles we have in mind by the end of this month. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. our opponents are the lack of competence, the political incapacity and the lack of leadership of some governments and parliaments of the member states. our opponents are selfishness, nationalism and protectionism, not europe anymore and not a strong commission!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the house politics committee has commissioned a study on the problems that climate change will bring us. the damage in europe is estimated at between 24 and 194 billion euros. i would suggest that, following the barcelona target, we take 3% of that amount - that is, 1 to 6 billion - and equip the european institute for innovation and technology with its own climate change kick, focusing on energy efficiency, in the areas of production and consumption.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the situation of women in rural areas deserves our undivided attention. the aim is to improve their situation and thus to exploit the full development potential of rural areas. new communication technologies and, therefore, new jobs must be created. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. all this and much more is driving the rural population away. today, more than half of the eu population lives in rural areas. rural areas generate 45% of europe's gross value added and provide 53% of existing jobs. women in rural areas in particular have more responsibility than is sometimes assumed, especially in terms of the social commitment they show.
in writing. - drought and feed shortages, for example in australia, have led to an increase in milk prices. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the milk quota currently set is not exhausted in some member states, while others are reaching or exceeding the limits. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the milk sector. if a further 2% increase in the quota were to take place at the same time, this would seriously affect the delicate balance between supply and demand and lead to a fall in milk prices. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quota is not exceeded. the farmers do not feel that they are being exploited unjustly, the consumer is being asked to pay for the increase in milk and food prices, and the small producers do not care. it's high time we started. the planned scheme, with its long-term effects, must not be the result of a temporary market situation. i therefore rejected the jeggle report on an additional increase in milk quotas.
in writing. - i am in favour of promoting women in rural areas, since this group of people is particularly affected by unemployment and, as a consequence, by poverty and possible social exclusion. as mrs klaß has already mentioned in her report, one of the priorities of european union policy is regional policy and the development of these often disadvantaged regions and their inhabitants. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european framework for the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos exposure. in particular, i would like to point out the poorly regulated insurance benefit for working spouses, of which the female share clearly predominates. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a fair and transparent manner. the unsatisfactory arrangements for maternity and sick leave, especially for selfemployed women, and for co-working spouses also call for improvement.
in writing. − smallholder biogas plants are useful because they complete an ecological cycle by using manure and other residues to produce biogas and then composting it into high-quality fertiliser or by linking it to the drying of feed material. however, increased support for biogas plants should be rejected to avoid wasting high-quality food products for fuel and energy production. we cannot allow large companies to lease land from farmers for the production of so-called bioenergy and biofuels, and then lose it for food production, and we cannot allow ourselves to be inundated by monocultures, pesticides and the use of genetic engineering, and to lose our ability to be self-sufficient in food technology. optimization of existing facilities and procedures to make them more efficient is welcome, but other points are problematic for the reasons i have mentioned, which is why i voted against the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my question relates to the consolidated text. i thank the president-in-office for pointing out the important difference between private and official texts. i would also welcome a concerted action, perhaps across the member states, in addition to publication in the official journal, to make the full text available to interested citizens - not in huge quantities, but if a citizen wants to, he should be able to request this text from national governments.
mr president of the council! in the context of the development of a common asylum procedure, one objective is to bring about decisions as quickly as possible and to determine whether or not someone is granted refugee status. the commission has also been asked to draw up a list of safe third countries so that decisions can be taken quickly. how far have you come in discussing the establishment of this list? the second point we have repeatedly called for is the implementation of information campaigns so that people know what asylum procedures are like, what legal immigration is like or what the consequences are of a rejected asylum application or of illegal immigration.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have repeatedly called for appropriate measures to be taken in the fight against terrorism and, in particular, in the prevention of terrorism. this measure was introduced for this reason. but is this instrument really still effective, or have terrorists not already found other ways of circumventing these controls? what will be done to ensure that the controls are uniform? the rules are uniform, but the implementation is completely different from airport to airport, which creates problems and problems.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you, claude. you've had a lot of meetings on this subject. it is a very complex issue and i would like to thank you in particular for always being very transparent in these negotiations and for allowing us to present the full dimension of this project. the challenge around the world these days is to think about efficiency - in energy consumption, but also in production. this can be done not only in the large dimensions, but for us the saying always applies here: think small first think small first. if it works there, it will work in the larger unit. we need to focus on using the best technology available in the world. this can be a simple, clearly structured technology, it doesn't have to be just electronics and nanotechnology. we must try to make simple, easy to understand, best available technologies as cost-effective as possible so that everyone can afford to use them. on the other hand, of course, we must take the consumer sinners of the world to task. the commissioner has also been faced with the challenge of dealing with this global situation, which is to put the burden on the consumers and relieve those who produce with the most efficient technologies. this is also one of the key principles of climate policy. studies in the european union show that climate change will cost three-digit trillions of dollars. the council should therefore consider making available fresh money for research and development in efficiency, particularly in the new european institute of technology.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer, among other things, to rule 146 of the rules of procedure. you just said you were here to follow rules. i do not understand why the meetings here are always late, sometimes by a minute or a quarter of an hour. a lot of taxpayers' money is wasted! they are so strict in applying formalities to political opponents who simply want a referendum or fair democracy, but not to themselves! if you were to treat everyone in this house equally, you would have to bring a case against the presidency for serious fraud because of the numerous incidents that have occurred, because it is nothing else in my view if meetings are held late all the time and taxpayers' money is wasted accordingly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, i would like to take up a point you made in your introduction, namely that we should not just give development aid, but that we can and should link it to general concerns, not in the sense of a contemporary power politics and string-attached politics, as the united states, the former soviet union and also present-day russia or china do, but in the sense of our concerns: good governance, human rights, the fight against corruption. these are concerns that we should all have on our flags, not just for the new member states and their development aid policy, but for all of us. perhaps this idea can be made more emphatically clear on this particular occasion.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to congratulate the commission and the rapporteur. i regret that this debate is very much focused on sexual and reproductive rights, because there are many issues that are important in this context. i have the impression that the un, some conservatives, are making it seem as if sexual and reproductive rights only apply to abortion. so i want to recommend to you: read it, look at it: if you are against contraception, if you are against education, if you are against women's access to these services, then you increase the number of abortions even more. i find it more than cynical that the same people stand up and pretend to have leased ethics and morality. it is unethical and it is immoral, given the numbers we hear from the united nations and the world population report every year, to speak out here against sexual and reproductive rights. (applause from the centre)
in writing. - i am in favour of co-financing the 'living with the environment' programme by the european union, as this would benefit not only older people but also other groups of the population, such as the disabled. the strong demographic change in the european population and the increase in life expectancy over the last few decades make it necessary to support the use of new information and communication technologies, which would make it much easier to cope with the everyday challenges of old age. as regards the overall reduction in costs in the health sector through the use of these new technologies, i would also like to point out studies on mobile health monitoring, which in germany alone would reduce annual health expenditure by eur 1.5 billion. i would also like to stress the advantage of cost-shared financing, which would also have a positive effect on the private sector, since it would also indirectly promote small and mediumsized enterprises. i am very much in favour of the aal programme because the use of new technologies continues to respect the privacy of older people and thus enables them to age with dignity.
in writing. - i know, of course, that we voted in plenary on the draft report by my colleague, mrs ana gomes, on the role of the european union, and not on the explanatory statement she gives us for her report. nevertheless, it is important to me that the rapporteur's explanatory statement once again underlines the fact that the invasion of iraq was a strategic and humanitarian disaster and that iraqi society has been traumatised anew by the war and the resulting chaos and violence. i welcome the fact that the rapporteur - among all the important points she makes - explicitly mentions the need to ensure a stronger role for women and respect for the rights of women, minorities and children in order to do good work in iraq.
in writing. - i am in favour of gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation. the disadvantage suffered by women in developing countries due to religious rules, cultural practices and poverty is often exacerbated by a lack of education. in this connection, i would like to point out in particular the enormous potential of the social pressure which could be achieved by raising public awareness of women's fundamental rights and which could ultimately improve the living conditions of women in the regions concerned. i also support the idea of not only treating the issue of violence against women as a female-only issue but also of integrating the male-perpetrator aspect through concrete programmes, as proposed in mrs uca's report. i too strongly criticise the fact that a strategy against cultural or religious violence against women is not included in the commission's catalogue of measures. poor access to education also causes disadvantages in other areas of life, for the simple reason of lack of information. in developing countries, in particular, where health care and sanitation are often catastrophic, poor information can be fatal. i would like to point out here the alarmingly high percentage of hiv-infected women in sub-saharan africa, 57%. i am very positive about the support for the 'development of gender performance indicators' which would also take the sting out of the provocative issue of quota regulation.
in writing. − this report on the theme of equality and participation the role of women in development cooperation addresses a wide range of different aspects and also contains important concrete demands. it is therefore absolutely necessary to support it as a whole. the theme running through the report is sexual and reproductive health and violence against women linked to the promotion of women's right to self-determination. the development of microfinance networks is also important, for example, in order to enable women to make economic progress through micro-credit. i do not understand how the various amendments are being used to try to water down the report and simply to deny the un documents before us.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not in fact, that is our wish. i do not mean that the report is a bad report - i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on behalf of my group on the very good report - but there are still one or two critical questions to be answered. we want to be able to discuss this in peace, and that is why we are putting this motion forward, and as you have just said, mr president, if the house were to agree to this - although that is not the reason - we could then vote at 11 a.m. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i take this opportunity to inform my colleagues formally that i will also be making a request - not now but tomorrow - that the vote on the fyrom and macedonia reports be postponed to the strasbourg meeting. i shall explain why tomorrow, but i wanted to tell my colleagues that now. there's just one small open question there, too. that is what our group wants!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs, and in particular the other colleagues, who have helped to produce a very balanced and good report. the philosophy of this report is as follows: i should like to mention a visit i made to vukovar a few weeks ago. i would remind you that vukovar is the city where the war was particularly brutal, where hundreds of people were dragged from the hospital and then killed. it is a particularly painful wound for the croatian people. i saw the memorial there, too, i talked to the people. the wound is deep, but it is not hatred or rejection of neighbouring serbia that has emerged, but the attempt to work together again with the serbian population there. the mayor sat down with the serbian deputy and colleagues from other ethnic groups and they represented the interests of the people there together, and this clearly shows - perhaps even more clearly than the fact that the deputy prime minister of the country comes from serbia, which is also welcome - how this country has tried with full intensity to overcome the divisions, the conflicts, the wars of the past and create a modern croatia. of course, all of these things do not solve the problems that croatia still has to solve today. they do not solve the question of judicial reform, the reform of the public administration, they do not solve the question of the shipping industry - croatia still has a lot to do. that is why we cannot conclude the contracts and conclude the negotiations now, no, we cannot. but we are on a very good path, and this is something that is important for croatia, but also for the whole region, because the region is also given a positive, an important signal by croatia's accession: if you do the tasks, if you do your homework, then you can become a member of the european union. the european union must be committed to this, and this is something we are making clear in this report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i was saddened when the decision was taken unilaterally to establish an ecological fishing zone. it is not that there are no good, substantive or objective reasons for an ecological management of fisheries, but it was not very sensible to take this unilateral step, but at the same time to promise italy and slovenia that no unilateral steps would be taken until a common solution was found. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the fisheries sector is not affected by the current situation. and now we in the european parliament believe that the conditions are in place to overcome some of the blockages that have been imposed, whether they were justified or not, which i do not want to discuss here. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to the question of the future of the european union. of course, croatia - we have always said this - must do its part, but if we want to transfer the european spirit to the regions or to bilateral relations, we need this help. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. whether you call it mediation or arbitration or whatever, it's not the deciding factor. it is crucial that the two countries, croatia and slovenia, come together and agree the terms, also with the recognition of such a judgment to be rendered by the third institution, mediation. then things are on the right track. it cannot be that the problems that exist in the border area are unsolvable. i fully recognize slovenia's interest in access to the sea. this is a legitimate concern. i believe that this slovenian concern can be reconciled with croatian interests. it's not insurmountable unless you're directly deeply affected. in conclusion, i would like to say clearly that i would have liked to have been able to conclude the negotiations with croatia in 2008. that is not possible now, unfortunately. i therefore ask the honourable members: let us take a realistic date, let us take 2009 as the date for the conclusion of the negotiations so that the newly elected parliament can then give its consent and the ratification can enter into force. if we all work together, croatia can join the european union in 2011. that's a good goal, a good goal. let us support this cause!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. croatia is not only culturally and historically rooted in central europe, it already meets all the accession criteria. so do not put unnecessary obstacles in his way. the settlement of the fisheries dispute has reaffirmed croatia's eu maturity and the croatian government is stepping up its efforts to fight corruption. however, i do not think that the rapid accession of croatia, which is now within reach, should lead to automatic accession for other countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud and corruption. it remains to be seen whether, with the declaration of independence of kosovo in mind, ethnic peace with the albanian minority can be maintained in the long term. we must not repeat the mistakes of past enlargement rounds. i think the eu must finally realise that unresolved conflicts, cultural differences and socioeconomic problems are not solved by joining the eu in a flash.
rapporteur. − madam president, our group congratulates you on your election. we supported that very much and we wish you all the best. frau präsidentin, liebe kolleginnen und kollegen! ich danke für die debatte, die sehr produktiv und konstruktiv war. ich möchte das aufgreifen, was kollege schmitt gesagt hat, was das jahr 2009 betrifft. ich glaube, wir finden morgen eine gemeinsame lösung, denn es ist wichtig, eine gemeinsame breite basis zu haben. warum war kroatien erfolgreich? weil es einen breiten konsens im land hergestellt hat, und trotz einer kleinen differenz bezüglich der besetzung des gemeinsamen eu-ausschusses wird das hoffentlich auch in zukunft so sein. und weil – auch wenn man sich dazu manchmal schwierig durchgerungen hat – wirklich ein konsens mit den nachbarn herbeigeführt wurde, wie das etwa bei der fischereizone der fall war. daher möchte ich – wenn ich nun eine verbindung zu mazedonien herstellen kann – die kolleginnen und kollegen in mazedonien ganz klar auffordern: nehmt euch ein beispiel. versucht hier einen konsens im lande, aber auch mit den nachbarn zu finden. natürlich ist es leicht, öl ins feuer zu gießen und sich hier, wie die kollegin beer, als große fürsprecherin zu gebärden. aber wie die kollegin pack und viele andere gesagt haben: beide länder – griechenland und mazedonien – müssen einen schritt machen, und dies gerade in den nächsten tagen. jetzt daraus eine innenpolitische krise in mazedonien zu machen, hilft mazedonien nicht weiter. es blockiert den weg in die eu, es blockiert den weg, zu einer lösung mit griechenland zu kommen. daher, wie gesagt, diese verbindung zu kroatien. kroatien hat es geschafft, durch drei wirklich sehr gute regierungen, durch račan, durch sanader, die wirklich wesentliche schritte nach vorne gemacht haben und auch über ihren schatten gesprungen sind, wenn es um so genannte nationale interessen ging. daher noch einmal mein appell, in kroatien diese gemeinsamkeit weiterzuführen und weiter herzustellen, mein appell, ähnliches auch in mazedonien zu versuchen, und mein appell auch an die präsidentschaft, das, was sie in den letzten wochen getan hat, nämlich für die region insgesamt fortschritte zu bringen, fortzuführen. ich bin überzeugt, herr kommissar, dass die kommission alles tun wird, um die verhandlungen 2009 wirklich zum abschluss zu bringen.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think we should carry out such evaluations from time to time and in particular also publish the findings from the member states in a register, because over the years, of course, conflicts arise on the individual issues, for example in the context of the water framework directive, where on the one hand we are trying to promote renewable energy, but on the other hand we are wasting water in vain. there are also problems with natura 2000. we should listen to the citizens and adapt the programmes accordingly from time to time.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the slovenian presidency for doing everything possible, right up to the last minute, to ensure that this programme can be implemented in time. i would also like to thank all the members for once again demonstrating how effective european legislation can be. the report was first presented in january and we are voting on it tomorrow, and it is clear that this house, the presidency and the commission can work together very effectively and well. we can be proud of that. i would also like to thank the itre secretariat, because it is not easy to negotiate a relatively complex matter in such a short time, to prepare the bases and to implement them accordingly. we are very pleased that in recent weeks slovakia, the united kingdom and, at the last minute, luxembourg, which was only announced yesterday, have also decided to join this programme. i shall be tabling an oral amendment to this effect tomorrow and i would ask the presidency to take luxembourg into account when the member states are named tomorrow, so that small and mediumsized enterprises in luxembourg can also participate successfully in this programme. the emphasis in the negotiations in parliament has been on a transparent and, above all, unbureaucratic, but at the same time efficient research funding programme. this is also intended to enable - this was a very strong wish of ours - one-off payments to be made, decisions to be taken quickly so that companies can then also raise the necessary liquidity to carry out research activities and that they do not have to take out a bank loan beforehand and then often have to wait for a very long time for the funds. i believe, commissioner potočnik, that this programme is a sign of better regulation, that we have really succeeded in implementing the objectives of smes and better regulation in the seventh framework programme for research. the participation and leadership of eureka is also exemplary, because eureka can take decisions very efficiently and at short notice, and ultimately also bears a large share of the responsibility. the community is ultimately responsible for up to one third of the total. commissioner, you have already said that the sums involved are up to 100 million euros. another new feature of the programme is that it is a truly bottom-up programme, so it comes from the economy, from small, research-intensive or medium-sized enterprises. i am proud that the eurostat secretariat in brussels, in close cooperation with the national funding agencies, is working very efficiently and very quickly on the market, and that it is therefore possible to focus research activities on a market orientation with a short and medium-term commercial use. this is a core part of the work of small and mediumsized enterprises and it should also be cost-effective. the aim is not to create high costs for the firms or the authorities, but to ensure that everything is clearly and coherently formulated so that each individual firm can answer the questions posed in the course of its activities without much effort. we've been checking that lately. that was very good.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in conclusion, we have again set ourselves an objective which puts the lisbon agenda at the centre. the short-term implementation of research results will hopefully lead to new jobs and, hopefully, higher net wages. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the introduction of a new product, the introduction of a new technology, and the introduction of a new product. i am also pleased that the european investment bank has been able to provide an additional risk-sharing instrument, so that these amounts can be considerably increased. we have also considered an evaluation to see whether the funds are actually being collected and not, as in other programmes, the european parliament having to cut again because the funds were not fully used in the previous year. i believe that this programme can guarantee that the funds are used up, and i would ask the members to ensure that the cofinancing in the member states also works accordingly. it is in all our interests that this programme be well received. i think it should be communicated accordingly. i would also ask commissioner potočnik to agree with the vice-president of the commission, mrs wallström, to present this programme to the public as an example, which is just part of the process. i would like to congratulate the slovenian presidency once again on a product and a project that can be demonstrated.
the commission has already done so. i am particularly pleased that we are discussing the second research project in the european parliament today. i believe that steel research is of particular importance in the face of climate change, because we are naturally seeking to make production as efficient as possible and to make efficiency criteria an essential part of consumption. i would therefore like to congratulate you once again on this report and i can say that today is a real research day.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. culture is a particularly powerful and economic factor for all of us, and we have seen that multi-digit billions of dollars are being spent in europe, that millions of workers are involved, and that there are many small and mediumsized enterprises, in particular, that are very creative and very active in the population. it is important to me that these cultural operators have optimal access to the new digital and audiovisual formats. it is important to be able to present oneself to the appropriate public and, in particular, to create new offers in lifelong learning, because these new and innovative ways develop and promote creative talents accordingly.
i have to say, madam president, i thank the rapporteur and the commission for this document. once again, the central role of culture in european integration and the european union's global image is underlined. the way in which this not new but very important knowledge is dealt with and how it is to be brought into all policy areas - as already provided for in article 151 - has been well developed in this cultural agenda. it is gratifying that during the preparatory work a broad consultation process has taken place with various cultural actors who are doing important cultural work, for which we should also be grateful. we urgently need this cultural strategy, for example, not only to be able to point out our cultural diversity with pride, but also to be able to meet the challenge of dealing with this diversity and the problems that arise. the implementation of the strategy will be decisive. president barroso announced a task force on culture in budapest in november 2005, which could be an important signal to the outside world, but has not yet been implemented. i hope that's not the case with this cultural agenda. the promotion of culture is a return in the field of intercultural dialogue, the implementation of the lisbon strategy, internal relations, and above all it is also a social added value. we use art and culture. it is of great benefit to us in almost all areas of society and the economy. but we should not exploit it, use it, or starve it, and therefore we should also think about a budget for that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i particularly welcome this report because it shows that europe is growing together and that culture plays a very special role here. if we think of the cultural capitals alone - next year it will be the city of linz in upper austria - then many cultural workers will once again be able to discover a new part of europe. later on, many visitors will also travel from linz to the other cultural capitals. this programme is a great help in getting people to understand each other. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this should also be an example for the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. agriculture and forestry is one of the economic sectors most affected by climate change and therefore has a strong interest in effective climate action, including at global level. it is essential that all countries, especially the developing countries, be involved in the post-kyoto period. binding targets for developing countries are necessary, but emissions must be reduced within a reasonable period of time. agriculture contributes to greenhouse gas emissions through livestock and fertilisers. however, unlike industry, transport and space heating, these are all natural emissions. some examples: in austria, agriculture accounts for only 8.66% of emissions. since 1990, these emissions have fallen by about 14%. apart from waste management, austrian agriculture is the only sector that has already met the austrian kyoto target of minus 13%. the possibilities of agriculture range from the storage of co2 in the soil by optimal humus management to the production of biomass as a raw material for energy. i would also like to point out, mr president, that industry in austria has made great efforts to keep its emissions as low as possible. in the european union, agriculture has a 9% share of emissions and is therefore far less polluting than, for example, the energy sector at 59% and the transport sector at 21%. the commissioner said that if we are to really tackle climate change, we must aim at energy avoidance or energy efficiency.
in writing. we all know that climate change is a big challenge. many parts of the world are already struggling with the negative consequences of the rise in global average temperatures, and this trend will continue in the coming years. people across europe will also feel the threatening effects of climate change on the environment, the economy and life in general. a coherent strategy to combat climate change is therefore desirable. it is essential that we try to fight climate change on two fronts at the same time. europe must not only drastically reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, but also adapt to global warming. this is the only way to tackle the effects of climate change in the future. the more efficient use of energy and the already scarce water resources are among the measures to be taken. it is important to me that member states which have already done more to combat climate change than others are not put at a disadvantage. all countries should be forced to make an appropriate contribution to mitigating climate change. the price of inaction would simply be too high.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i announced it yesterday and also told the services that i wanted to make a request that the vote on the fyrom, or macedonia, report, not be held today. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore ask that we vote on whether we can postpone this vote to strasbourg, not further, but only to strasbourg.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i would ask that we include the word 'luxembourg' in this proposal.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. as far as i am aware, the epp has withdrawn amendment no 4, but it wants - and i very much support - a vote on paragraph 8 in two parts. the first part goes on to on public opinion in croatia and the second part starts with urges the croatian government. if amendment no 4 is withdrawn, then these two parts would be put to the vote.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, i am simply exchanging the word 'envisages' for 'envisaged'. it's outdated, so it's in the past.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. after yesterday's debate in this house, it emerged that a large majority would be in favour of replacing the word 'could' with 'should in any case'. that could provide a broad consensus in this house and that would be very important in this case.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not sorry i was so early. i want to make it really short, too. we are very much in agreement with the basic lines of the meijer report. he did a very good job. there is a delicate question, and that is the name question. we want to make it easier for macedonia to get through these cliffs. we therefore want to find a solution together with the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs by the next strasbourg meeting so that we can at least vote on it at the next strasbourg meeting and postpone the vote today.
in writing. - the military and police response to demonstrations in china was predictable. china is not a democracy, but the actions of chinese security forces against the protesters are to be condemned. the boycott of the olympic games, in whatever form, would probably be perceived by the majority of the chinese population as an insult and would not improve the situation of the local minorities, but would even worsen it. the eu's alliances will be ineffective in terms of their weight in world politics. and if the european union makes a laughingstock of itself in front of the whole world, it will not help anyone, especially not the tibetans. even if the situation calms down, new, possibly even more violent riots are to be expected. however, the eu can work with allies to improve the lives of minorities in china gradually and to bring about a slow change in the consciousness of the government and the majority population.
in writing. − europe's cultural wealth is a precious asset that must be preserved. the idea of providing legal support for artists in this respect, alongside financial support, is one aspect of the problem, but it must be ensured that any infringement that occurs in private without any profit motive is not punished as a crime. but it is much more important to ensure that our christian-western roots do not slip away, but are inevitable. the much-discussed integration cannot be that we are refusing to accommodate muslim immigrants in our kindergartens and schools at christmas, easter, st. nicholas and the like, or else we lose our cultural identity. we must once again take more care to ensure that our customs, traditions and moral values are upheld and respected by others.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i think we should wait for the visit of the delegation from this parliament, which will be in georgia in a week's time and will look in particular at the problem of abkhazia. there are several members of the delegation here. after this delegation's visit, which will take place in a week's time, we can put this matter on the agenda, perhaps not as an urgent matter, but in order to have a serious discussion. we should wait for the report of the parliament's delegation first.
the commission has already done so. since the september 11 attacks at the latest, security efforts in the eu have been almost exclusively directed towards the fight against terrorism. it is certainly true that we must not make it easier for potential bombers to download bomb-making instructions from the internet, for example, and of course we should welcome better cooperation between the member states. but in the fight against terrorism, the unwary citizen must not be targeted and unwelcome critics must not be eliminated. i believe that there is a dangerous tendency worldwide to curtail the fundamental freedoms which our forefathers won with great difficulty. we are in danger of becoming a deeply illiberal society, with passenger data sharing, internet surveillance. hopefully, not every nonconformist who attends a demonstration, or advocates a referendum, or even dares to criticize the eu will soon be branded as a potential terrorist. of course, it is important to be alert. but that should not affect civil liberties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must not underestimate the danger of ever-expanding parallel societies, of migration-related violence and of potential ethnic-cultural conflict.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner for the very precise information he has given us on this matter, as he always does. i have seen the problems of visas and visa restrictions, particularly in the balkans, and i still see them today, although there are some relaxations. if we take serbia, for example - because the country has already been mentioned - which, despite the current facilitations, had much more contacts with the west, the european countries, in the framework of yugoslavia - a communist regime - than now, then something is wrong with the whole system. it is really about fundamental changes. the commissioner has rightly pointed out that in ukraine over 50% of applicants benefit from exemptions of one kind or another. i wonder what kind of system is this that leaves 50 percent or more of the population unemployed? but it's not his fault, i admit. i would like to come back to belarus. i was happy to join the initiative of mrs grabowska and mr paleckis because i find it particularly problematic that the citizens of this country suffer twice because of a bad regime: not only because of the regime, but also because we do not develop an action plan because of the bad regime. sometimes you have to go unilaterally and do something on your own to help those who are not helped by your own regime, your own government. you mentioned that this is already happening to some extent. but there is more to be done, we must pursue a more aggressive policy towards belarus! i would be interested, for example, if you could answer this question at a later date: which countries make what exceptions? which countries in the european union are particularly helpful and which might not be? it would be important to act as a european union, and if some countries are good, it would be disastrous if other countries are very restrictive. i ask the commission, together with the council - these are the main responsible parties, we know this - to work together to ensure that we get more out of the benefits for the citizens, for those affected in belarus, than we have already done in the past.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we are to act in a networked way in health policy, the call to the commission to submit a proposal for a directive on organ donation and transplantation is timely. the total shortage of organs in some member states leads in many cases to waiting periods of several years with fatal outcome. the european union could benefit from a good supply of organs if there were 20 to 30 organ donations per million inhabitants, from deceased people and living donors. but the essential prerequisite for this is a transplantation law that ensures the removal of organs from the dead. unless it was already contested during the deceased's lifetime. only member states with such a legal basis have a chance of solving the problem in a fair european manner. there are 11 of them now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in austria, for example, despite our legal certainty for organ harvesting, relatives are still being consulted by icu doctors who have been trained in psychology for this purpose, and this is very successful. but if the survivor's point of view is not accepted, then it is accepted. but if it is handled differently - as in austria's largest neighbour, for example - then there are major supply problems, and the whole thing becomes a european problem. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the european union's external action. if we do not take care of this, everything else will remain waste and arbitrary and, in the worst case, will become a questionable business of poorer countries, mainly non-european countries. i am telling you this because i was responsible for organising this question in austria as minister for health and we have good experience with it today. the european parliament is not putting forward enough proposals to solve the problem in a european way. i expect more from you, commissioner.
in writing. currently, there are almost 1000 patients registered for transplantation in austria. unfortunately, not all of these critically ill patients experience the life-saving transplant. about 150 patients die each year during the waiting period, because the number of available donated organs is very limited. organ shortages are a major challenge we face in europe. for these reasons, a directive on the quality and safety of organ donations is necessary. however, cooperation between member states and the exchange of good practice are equally necessary. there are currently considerable differences in the number of organ donations and the transplantation rate within europe. cooperation between member states should focus on identifying the most efficient systems, exchanging experience and promoting best practice. member states must learn from each other. i am convinced that live donation should always be complementary to postmortem donation. it is also important that the donations remain voluntary and free of charge. money transfers between donors and recipients are unacceptable. the commission and the member states must take measures to combat transplant tourism and the illegal trade in organs.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to congratulate mr audy on his excellent point of view on the importance of the transeuropean networks for us. i would imagine that the eib would also provide an incentive instrument, namely for ownership unbundling. we now have the commission's proposals to increase ownership unbundling in the energy and telecommunications sectors. i would suggest that we should create incentives here and not focus so much on the legal obligation. the second point is that the export industry is currently having difficulty maintaining its performance, particularly with the strong euro. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, my speech today is addressed to all those who ...
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. what i have to say here is, for all those who are interested in how political decisions are actually made, a lesson in the lack of control in this house. so if future political science students or politically interested citizens are going to take up the cause, this is a classic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is noted, for example, that decentralisation and delegation of tasks was one of the main results of the commission's reform process from 1999 onwards, but that to date the commission has not carried out a study, an accounting report or an interim balance sheet on this form of management. i have also been thinking about this in my fundamental considerations. the author of this text is mrs gräßle of a large group. i would like to ask you to delete that very word from the report. there are many other examples of mrs haug, who is also in the room: critical remarks about the agencies, such as that it should be underlined that only two of the agencies are completely independent of eu grants, while the majority of them are financed exclusively from eu funds this is found in a document by ms haug. but this is where it's being painted! mr bösch, chairman of the committee on budgetary control, has repeatedly expressed strong criticism of the agencies outside. but if it is important, if it is a matter of fact, if it is possible to state very clearly that there has been an irresponsible rampage in the agencies, that there is a lot wrong, then at the request of the major groups this will simply be deleted. and that's not enough! what others may do, i as a reporter may not. the whole argument is simply censored, and i therefore take the liberty of saying what would otherwise be inaccessible to the public from the plenary. so the censored was: decentralisation and outsourcing of tasks was a key objective of the commission's reform process from 1999. but to date no such balance sheet has been produced. moreover, the commission has never been able to explain in a credible way what the added value of decentralised agencies is and why their tasks could not be done as well within the commission or as in many cases why the areas of responsibility require european union action at all. instead, irresponsible wild growth flourished. new agencies have been created on the basis of adventurous political decisions, uncontrolled and often uncontrollable, mostly inefficient and above all associated with a high burden on the european taxpayer. in all this, an unprecedented diversity of privileges has been built in. the commission has thus spectacularly failed in its reform efforts, which have been aimed at ensuring accountability, efficiency, a new political european service culture and transparency. the unsustainable confusion in the field of outsourcing and decentralisation policy is unmistakable. responsible action is different. other i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. it is of course politically correct that when the debate on the 20 reports i presented in committee began, not a single other person spoke, but that the amendments were prepared in the back and then censored in the back.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking all the staff who have prepared this important discharge for 2006 and who have supported our rapporteurs. it's perhaps the most important release we're making in this period. we see the problems, and we still have time to solve those problems. i would also like to express my gratitude to the european court of auditors. the report's authority is growing year by year. it would be good if the court of auditors could occasionally resist the temptation of populism. we remember the horse breeders' associations and the golf clubs and so on. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the community. i would like to thank the european commission, which, in the end, even under pressure from a hard-nosed rapporteur of this committee, negotiated a close follow-up with us. commissioner kallas has already mentioned how we intend to proceed in the coming months. national declarations by the member states are important. the council is absent today - we see it - they do not care about the use of their taxpayers' money, so we have to do it. we will make progress on structural policies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have pointed out for the first time that this foreign policy is not being controlled enough, even though we are spending billions here. it's actually quite common in the international financial world that you get voting rights analogous to the deposit obligations that you have. so if we, for example, as the european union, are contributing more than 40% to the reconstruction of iraq, then i would also like to see us having more than 40% of the rights of participation and co-decision. there's still a lot to do here. we shall be voting on good reports today, and all that remains is for them to be implemented properly.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - jutta haug has described my criticisms in the explanatory statement and in the main text as abhorrent and scandalous. i 'd like to read you a few quotes . the heads of state and government invent one agency after another. the agencies are eating our money. the need for the agencies is not properly checked. there's a largely uncontrolled space where no one is really responsible. it's not a recognizable concept. one agency after another is chosen to be paid for its approval of sensitive issues, even if it is only once, by the promise of an interesting agency. all these are quotations from herbert bösch. you're much more critical than what i wrote. i see. if i write this, it's scandalous. but herbert bösch is a party member, of course, and fits in. i've been there. it's all right then. that's what i mean by the double talk that prevails here. it's that hypocrisy of the upper class, that they say: no, it is quite terrible to name a scandal in an official parliamentary document. but on the outside, you're critical. that's one of the central problems of this house. of course, there may be differences of opinion as to whether or not to grant relief. but that is not what these passages, which i mentioned at the outset, were about. it was a matter of principle, where, when it comes down to it, when you have the chance to really show the flag, you cover what is going on here. and that is the very big problem for democracy in europe, that there is a system here that does not control itself, but that pats each other on the shoulder. i would also like to ask, mr president, to be allowed to make a personal remark at the end of the debate under rule 145.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - you interrupted me, mr president, when i called you a dictator. i want to explain why i'm doing this. since march 2007, when a very, very important matter involved a serious mistake by the house, both for me personally and for my political work, involving my association with a group that i have always fought against because i consider them to be masked nazis, and i have made a long personal contribution to you, i am waiting for this answer. i have now lodged a complaint with the ombudsman. if it comes to one-minute speeches, mr president, you have all your constructions ready, and then i would be speaking and you would not give me the floor. that's why i call you the "arbitrary president". i also call you a 'random' president because, in the so-called incidents of 12 december, you have chosen colleagues at random, not those who were then still in your own group, but those who seem to have been in your eye. i also call you the arbitrary president because you just keep interrupting me when i'm speaking - it's a surprise that i'm even allowed to speak now - and say: no, you're not going to give me that answer. and i call you a 'pseudo-president' because, on the basis of this interpretation of additional powers, which is not only unfounded in my view, you are actually able to conduct proceedings here which are really not in keeping with a proper parliament and certainly not with what i have learned in school. but for me, it's a very long way -- if you follow my life -- that i choose to use that term. there's got to be a lot, a lot going on. i am convinced that you are being arbitrary, especially when it comes to actually providing information on the question of secretarial allowances. you've allowed me to be put on the spot for ridiculous formal errors that can happen to anyone - yes, anyone - and i'm convinced that they can happen to anyone in this house. but they cover up the fact that, according to internal investigations, at least 80 million euros would have to be recovered from parliamentarians if there were equal treatment and proportionality of resources. there is no such thing, and that is why i stand by it: yes, for me, as a political representative representing 14 per cent of the austrian electorate, you are unfortunately an arbitrary president who is doing unnecessary damage to this house and to the important idea of europe. i would like to see a genuine, fair and democratic parliament where such a term can and should be avoided.
chairman of the committee on budgetary control. the commission is not i would like to draw the house's attention to the fact that the resolutions on the discharge of the agencies are adopted without any reasoning. in accordance with our rules of procedure, in accordance with rule 48, i, as president, deleted the explanatory statement, since the explanatory statement of the rapporteur had no connection with the text adopted by the committee. just for the record.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i wouldn't have done this to you if herbert bösch hadn't come forward. it's just not true. you can read about this in the relevant resolutions: at first, only a small part was submitted as a censorship proposal. i refused, giving the reasons in accordance with the rules of procedure, and mr bösch - in my opinion, quite arbitrarily and unjustly - then deleted the entire explanatory statement, which referred to criticisms which, moreover, had been repeatedly expressed in the same way in public by his group. that 's double standards . if you say it yourself, it's okay, if someone else says it, it can't happen.
in writing. - hundreds of thousands of people in europe live a life on the waiting list, waiting for a second chance at life. it is certainly helpful to improve common structures and cooperation, for example through a european organ donor card, a common organ donor pool or a transplantation hotline. austria, like other countries, is exemplary in this respect, since anyone who does not object to organ harvesting during his lifetime automatically becomes an organ donor. for those countries where this is not the case, we will need a change in consciousness. because the glaring shortage of organ donors is closely linked to a lack of awareness among the population, but also among medical personnel. only by addressing these problems, improving structures and providing education can we improve organ donation and transplantation and curb the illegal trade in organs.
in writing. - the general public needs the free services of volunteers. in particular, disasters such as floods or major fires would be impossible to manage without the help of volunteers. we have to be aware that many things would not work without volunteering and are not financed by the state. in many voluntary organisations, the number of active members is steadily decreasing. the reasons for this range from shortened civil service to relocation to increased pressure at work or school. for example, members of the volunteer fire brigade are also denied leave from their workplace due to staff shortages, even if the country reimburses the wage costs during this time. companies need to be made aware that they too can benefit from volunteering, and we need to compare best practices on how to keep volunteering attractive so that it can be effective.
in writing. - since the beginning of the eu, we have been fighting to control waste and abuse. we need a high-level anti-fraud system where money wrongly paid is actually recovered and we need to exploit savings potentials. this includes, for example, not only limiting the number of seats to one, but also making more sense of the use of funds for eu agencies. we are playing a double game, as in the case of the fundamental rights agency, and at the same time starving the financial resources of sensible agencies such as frontex. this has to end.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. there are a number of objective factors which contribute to or cause price increases. it is also speculation, as mr schulz has explained at length. does this mean that we can do nothing, that we must stand by and watch? i don't think it was. the commissioner and the representatives of the presidency of the council have made a number of statements. i would now ask you, commissioner, to work with your colleagues in the commission over the next few weeks to develop a comprehensive approach to the answers we can give. because citizens - not just globally, but also in europe - want an answer to what we can and cannot do. one is the development of healthy, sustainable agriculture. this is an absolutely important aspect. i do not want to repeat what has already been said. i would like to make a brief comment: we were recently in kosovo, where there is a lot of land, but where we as the european union are not helping to ensure that the common people there also have the opportunity to develop agriculture. so in our neighbourhood - in the balkans, in ukraine and in other countries - we also need to do more to develop sustainable agriculture. secondly, we cannot just say, "okay, prices are going up". because we know who's particularly affected. we know that the poorer classes of course have to spend a much higher proportion of their income on food and are therefore more affected. so we must also send clear distributional and social signals that wage increases, and especially pension increases, are primarily for the lower income groups here in europe. of course, we must also support the lower income groups globally. we must also point out - since we are dealing with social unrest - that in democratic countries the response to famine and shortages, for example, is of course much better. the development of democracy in all our countries, but especially in the third world, is an important aspect of countering these needs. fourthly, as already mentioned, the speculative effects. does that mean there's nothing we can do? can europe not also be active, for example, in the framework of the undp, the world bank, etc., so that we can at least partly counteract speculation by keeping stockpiles and releasing stockpiles? we cannot say, well, this is just speculation, but we must see what we can do in this area. the same may be true of oil and gas. there's a lot to do here, too. and as for our energy policy objectives, we should not throw the baby out with the bath. it is absolutely true that there are exaggerated hopes here, particularly as regards the first or second technology. we must also carry out energy research in order to move towards a second or third technology, and i agree with you completely that we should use biomass and other raw materials, which do not have this negative effect, this displacement effect, as is the case now. the commission must also join us in thinking about not abandoning the objectives but adapting them. finally, my clear and unequivocal message is that we must help the poorest of the poor - worldwide and in europe too - to obtain healthy food despite the difficult situation. that is our main social democratic objective.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to join my colleagues in expressing their appreciation of the long breaths of vice-president barrot, our rapporteur, mrs barsi-pataky, and of mrs angelika niebler. we need a functioning galileo system as soon as possible, a european system of its own. we have a lot of tasks that we want to handle with this system. we want to manage our traffic better, whether on the road or on the water, and we want to manage our air traffic in such a way that we save energy, if possible, by better organising it here, and in this way also do something sensible about climate change. with that in mind, every month that we are faster is a win for all of us. that is why we should continue this path intensively.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think the european union is on the right track with this system. but we must also take very seriously the concerns expressed by mr pflüger, for example. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's satellite navigation systems are not used in the same way as those of the united states. it will be good if we can do something to counteract this. it is particularly good and important that this system is being used very massively in the area of heavy transport, in the area of transferring traffic flows from road to rail, because there are so many possibilities associated with it. you can do kilometre-based or type-based, you can do uniform across europe. i think this is important for transport in europe and it is important for all of us.
the commission has already done so. you have rightly pointed out that tax evasion and avoidance must be combated, and there is no question about that. you have pointed out that we need legal means to do this within the framework of the european union's rule of law. now, according to media reports, some of this data in this liechtenstein scandal has been leaked to the tax authorities because german authorities have paid money for criminally obtained data. is this the right way?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. whether this was the right way or not, it's a good thing it got caught. the commissioner, there has been a system created which still favours those who are already making sure that large companies pay less and less tax, and who now seem to be refraining from paying tax. i think that is an unacceptable development. i would like to know what exactly you are negotiating with liechtenstein and what exactly you intend to do to stop these - and i say quite deliberately - crimes in the future.
we hear from the media repeatedly about human trafficking by european or american organizations. in austria, france and other countries, adoption societies are suspected of trafficking children. and there have long been reports of dubious circumstances in adoption proceedings, but also of cases of baby organ trafficking and later prostitution. what measures does the commission intend to take to prevent this from happening?
new skills, the internet, technology and the like are certainly important in the labour market. however, we have all experienced that, particularly in the case of youth unemployment, the lack of key skills in reading, writing and arithmetic is often the main reason why young people cannot be integrated into the labour market for the first time or at an early age. are there any special priorities in this area?
i have to say, madam president, the example of africa shows that the much-vaunted development cooperation does not always work as planned as one would like to imagine. all too often it is used to promote the exports of donor countries, sometimes to support dictators, or even to create new dependencies through debt policy. in this context, the latest ambitions of china and india on the african continent are to be viewed with the greatest scepticism from a european perspective. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. such continued neo-colonization - as i like to call it - of africa by china and india would destroy all previous efforts of western policy in one fell swoop. it is not possible for beijing or new delhi to encourage newly-indebted states to take on debt and build new dependencies, just to secure supplies of raw materials. nor can it be that african states are too eager to get their hands on development funds, but are not even prepared to take back their own citizens when frontex apprehends them as illegal immigrants off the european coast. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. china is not shy about doing business with internationally prominent governments, such as sudan. it is not afraid to supply arms to zimbabwe. for a country where human rights and democracy, environmental protection and sustainability are still of such low priority, this approach is probably not entirely illogical. we need a policy towards africa which demands stability, democracy and human rights, but also - and this is the most important thing - which takes account of european interests. the european union cannot spend money indefinitely in africa without linking the allocation to substantive and political objectives. the current approach has created a vacuum which has led to waves of migration, human rights violations and extreme poverty. the chinese and indian ambitions are likely to give further impetus to this unless we finally make a turnaround. it cannot be that we europeans are always financing humanitarian projects, and other powers, like in this case china and india, are doing big business.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to congratulate you on the report. it shows very well that china can also be a model. the development in china, especially its economic development, can be a model for africa. the market conditions and the gains achieved are considerable. china is also our partner in the wto. we can see that if the negotiations in the wto on tariff and quota reductions are successful, there can be a win-win situation for both sides. africa and china need europe. europe is currently the most powerful trading area in the world. i can imagine a good partnership developing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good that governments are engaging in dialogue on important issues at the eu-latin america/caribbean summit. malgorzata handzlik has just brought it up. it is important that parliaments are increasingly involved in this intercontinental dialogue and that they contribute to it. i think it is very important that people from latin america and the caribbean and europeans in particular should have a greater dialogue with each other than they have had so far. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we need them to actually achieve better relations here. we have had excellent experience at european union level with exchange programmes between member states. we must also intensify this system in relation to latin america and the caribbean. we need young people to help us find future-oriented and sustainable solutions to important questions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we usually say, "our machine is not working". in this case, the lifts are not working. there's a lot of colleagues waiting to come down here. it would be sensible to see that explanations like these might be preferred.
in writing. − gps already offers many of the services that the european satellite navigation system galileo is intended to offer. but we must not become dependent on a us-american satellite navigation monopoly created by the us military. also, the gps satellite routes are mapped so that the us war zones are well covered. with our own system we can determine the most optimal flight path configuration for europe. i voted in favour of the report because of the strategic importance of the project, although the financing is still not completely clear.
in writing. − the possibility of converting poppy cultivation to the production of medicinal products is questionable, but may be worth trying. in any event, the us policy in afghanistan and the eu's inaction in the face of increased opium production have exacerbated the problem. a future-oriented drug policy can only consist in the effective dismantling of drug trafficking, the immediate expulsion of foreign drug dealers and targeted focused actions, as well as in the strengthening of the supply of therapies. the call for the legalisation or liberalisation of drugs is being heard again and again. but even in switzerland, after nearly 15 years of heroin use, the hope that addicts would break free has been dashed. i have rejected this report because it has strong tendencies towards liberalization.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are discussing frontex here, and that is what we should be focusing on. frontex is, of course, seen in the context of a comprehensive approach to migration, which on the one hand controls legal immigration, but on the other hand combats illegal immigration. in this overall context, frontex is the security instrument that counts in the fight against illegal immigration and trafficking, and is used where member states are overwhelmed. we must therefore ensure that frontex as a security concept is actually successful. parliament has managed to double the budget and extend the duration of joint operations considerably. i'm glad to see that hera and nautilus are already in action and that poseidon will be launched in the next few days. but - and this is addressed to the council - any action will only be successful if the member states have created the conditions and the necessary instruments are available. i therefore ask the council, and i urge it, to do everything possible to prevent the same thing from happening as has happened in recent years, namely that the member states have been negligent. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european project is based on the motto 'unity in diversity'. but this diversity, as we know, has been declining in nature in the last 150 years in a worrying way. the current loss rates are about a thousand to ten thousand times higher than the average in earth's history. the world conservation union now lists some 15,600 species worldwide as threatened with extinction. the world food organization (fao) estimates that the main wheat and maize producing countries have lost more than 80% of their original varieties. and these numbers are just the tip of the iceberg, because we know that only about 1.7 million of the estimated 13 million living species have been recorded and described to date. at the same time, we know that climate change is making things worse. but we also know that this loss of biodiversity is actually reducing our ability to respond to this very climate change. so we are really in a dangerous situation here. i am therefore sorry to have to ask the commission why there is no mainstreaming of all our policies in terms of their sustainability, as far as biodiversity is concerned. why is there not more research and development on the coexistence of species and of humans? if you follow the debate here, you might get the impression that the establishment of a few ffh areas and the protection of birds would have been enough. this is really just the tip of the iceberg. why not involve our citizens in this task which we all have to face? the commission has a lot of homework to do, as do we of the european parliament and the council. but just going to conferences and signing declarations is really not enough. it's high time we got some action here!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to know whether the commission has already given some thought to the health check for agriculture, to how we can develop further in this area, particularly in the next financial perspective, because renewable energy and biofuels are obviously major challenges for us, which must also be incorporated into the financial framework of the health check. this is also a very important factor in the development of co2, which we have to reduce accordingly under the kyoto protocol. my specific question is: what proposals will the commission make?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are discussing how we can preserve biodiversity for future generations, and at the same time we are taking measures that are clearly counterproductive. we know from the initial euphoria of producing agro-diesel that there are counterproductive results here. not only does one litre of agricultural diesel require 9 000 litres of water, but it also releases nitrous oxide, which is much more harmful than co2, and we know that the production of energy crops is the very one that endangers and even destroys biodiversity. in the light of these new findings and in the interest of preserving biodiversity, do you now consider that we should suspend what we have decided to add to agricultural diesel, invest in new research and perhaps develop an alternative approach, because we already know about the negative effects and results?
i have to say, madam president, the enlargement of the schengen area in december last year has led to more security, not less security. the statistics prove this, and we should be glad of it. the next step is to include switzerland and liechtenstein in this schengen area, but i hear there could be problems because some member states may wish to express reservations about liechtenstein's inclusion. i hear remarks from the czech republic. a question to the council: are you aware of these possible reservations and what will you do to avoid problems associated with the non-acceptance of liechtenstein?
mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to disagree with you on your last remarks. of course, the individual states are responsible, but the thinning of these regions is also due to something that is happening in the european union, namely the liberalisation that we are facing. the postal services are disappearing from the small towns because they are no longer profitable, the municipal savings banks are disappearing, the communal bathrooms are disappearing because the public services are perhaps being privatised. these are all things that make life in these communities a little bit less worth living. i've seen it myself, i'm from the mountains. i would therefore like to ask whether there has been any deliberation here at council level. madam president, may i make a brief comment on the previous question: in graz too, people are taken by bus for five metres! so you're not alone. the same nonsense is being said, that the schengen agreements are to blame for this, which is of course not true.
mr president-in-office, you were right when you said that dialogue can really help to resolve conflicts. my question is: can you imagine us creating new platforms with china, whether it's in education or research? learning from and understanding each other should be the focus. we have not only sports, music and business, but also personal, interpersonal relations. we need new platforms here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is very important for all of us to focus on improving relations with the gulf states. europe and the gulf states are very interested in supplying europe, the most powerful market in the world, and in obtaining resources that are unique. in this context, it is necessary to intensify relations in a global context. we have the question in the wto, "everything but arms", that should be the standard. we should get a reasonable solution as soon as possible, because it is in the interests of both parties. we should also make greater efforts in the field of research and the exchange of knowledge and know-how, and we should also try to develop closer links in the education sector. it would also be important to conclude the energy charter together.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the agricultural debate we are currently faced with the challenge of health checks. i would like to know whether the debate on the cmo is relevant here and to what extent it is discussed. we all know that there is a heated debate around the world about food and energy security. here we should see what effect this debate has on us. i myself have always been in favour of zero tolerance on labelling. the consumer should know what he is getting. from this point of view, we should see that the regional legislatures also had the opportunity to decide here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i welcome the report by alexander radwan and this debate very much, because i have the impression that we are really putting our finger in the wounds, and we are doing it together, regardless of party affiliation. this debate makes it clear that we need uniform standards for corporations worldwide, but we are against a single company. secondly, we are not opposed to appropriate, specific sme regulation, but the regulatory framework must be determined by us the european union ; thirdly, the measures currently proposed are too complicated, too expensive, useless for smes and therefore to be rejected. fourthly, the questions 'who makes the rules for whom' and 'who controls them' have not been satisfactorily answered to date. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. fifthly, when commenting on this issue or answering these questions, some people forget that two thirds of employees are employed as private employees in private companies family businesses and that the majority of these family businesses are smes that do not get their money from the capital market. we should also bear this in mind when proposals are made that are all over the same place. thank you for this serious debate!
i have to say, madam president, i can follow up exactly what our colleague has just said. we assume - and this is also confirmed by the report by mr radwan - that such an institution is acting without a political mandate, but that it is nevertheless adopting to a relatively large extent measures which are relevant to the economy and in some cases binding. it is not just about improving good governance, the framework, but also about political authorities being more involved in this issue than they have been in the past. what we are doing here in the european parliament is a good step, but others must follow. a second aspect: what is done here at the level of a regional organisation - namely the european union - should then also be reflected in the global context. it is not just that we want to restrict these rules to our region.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not we shall have no choice but to agree to that. only, you said the council can't be present. i doubt he can't be present. this is not directed against the slovenian presidency, which is very helpful. i have already said on several occasions that it should be possible, since political life is not governed by the council's deadlines, to tell the council when setting the agenda that a certain flexibility is necessary so that when new issues arise it is quite possible to discuss them with the council. i would ask that. secondly, mr president, i would ask that we put this on the agenda for the next part-session because it is an urgent matter. under these conditions we can then agree.
the commission has already done so. we are rightly celebrating the introduction of the single european currency as a success story. some of this has already been pointed out. but there are a few question marks, and i wanted to address two of them. firstly, there is a country in the european union which, unlike many of the candidate countries at the time, has deliberately opted to remain outside. that is his right under the terms of the current contract. the british can stay on their island. but there is another country which, by virtue of its accession conditions, did not reserve this option, namely sweden, but which has since then consistently acted as if it, like the united kingdom, had the right to decide the question of its accession to the euro and to the eurozone itself. this is contrary to the promise made at the time. maybe we could do a little work on this one.
the commission has already done so. the task of creating the euro has been more than fulfilled. the euro and the single market are our most successful response to globalisation. the euro makes the single market our home market and the euro, the flag and the anthem are our three identity-building symbols. the maastricht criteria and the stability and growth pact have motivated and supported necessary reforms in the member states, thus making possible the success story of the euro. but i would like to conclude by saying two things: the criteria must be met and slovakia must be treated in the same way as lithuania. we must not create the impression that we interpret the criteria differently in each individual case. everything we say here is not well-established in people's minds. i call for an information campaign 10 years of the euro explaining the benefits to the citizens in the member states and i call on the commission, the ecb and the member states to communicate to the citizens in concrete terms the added value of the euro this year.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i had the opportunity last week to be with the delegation not only in tbilisi but also in abkhazia, or the occupied part of gali province. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis, and that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. what also concerned me is the representative of the de facto government we spoke to who showed that he doesn't have much competence. i am therefore afraid - and you have mentioned this, commissioner - that russia will hardly give the abkhaz people the chance or the opportunity to accept the peace plan themselves. our sympathy goes, of course, to georgia, a small country which is being pressured by a very large neighbour. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. i am not satisfied with what the deputy prime minister of georgia said yesterday in committee, nor with the way in which he said it, because it also expressed a warlike language which should be avoided at this critical stage. the elections are coming up and, of course, some of them are being used, also in the direction of the elections, and russia is falling into exactly this trap and is even indirectly and unconsciously supporting those forces in georgia who may well be looking to use the conflict for their political purposes. i would like to say again that we fully support georgia and its aspirations for independence and integrity, and there is no question of that. and we hope that the elections that are coming up will be truly free and fair. there are two things that georgia is particularly pressing on the european union, and i think that is also important: firstly, visa facilitation. it is not to be seen that russia and indirectly now also the abkhaz or georgian citizens who get a russian passport have visa facilitation, but the georgians themselves do not. this is unfair and unjust and it needs to be corrected. and secondly, that we get a truly multilateral peacekeeping mission there. it is not possible that a peace group is operating there, appointed unilaterally by a partner in the conflict, namely russia, and moreover by the major partner in the conflict, which is occupying the territory in a way and is also providing the peacekeeping force. i think it is a legitimate wish of georgia to prevent this, and it is absolutely important - the commissioner has already said this in committee - that we maintain the capacity for dialogue. of course, we cannot go into all the details and all the rules of the georgian language. we are the european union, but these two demands of georgia are particularly to be supported. i hope that the commission will take action and really support these concerns of georgia.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's message to europe's social partners as a collective 'try it again together' shows a certain ignorance of political reality. there is no willingness to negotiate on the part of industry. the commission has also failed to see why the social partners' mechanism is so inefficient. in a rapidly changing industrial world, where rapid adaptation is required, unanimity-based decision-making, as is the case with businesseurope, is useless. the ituc, after all, votes by qualified majority. it allows for movement and change. it was this decision-making mechanism of the social partners that led politicians such as helmut kohl and the european parliament to act in 1994 and to enforce the european works council directive. but even then, a review and further adaptation of the practice was planned for the period after five years. today we are in 2008, and the commission is once again seeking to trigger the negotiating procedure which will inevitably extend beyond this legislative period, and this in the face of a willingness to negotiate on the part of industry which is still not really there or is blocked by its internal decision-making mechanism. for your information, we had the same situation back in 1994. so are we going to improve the much needed instrument of the european works council, as commission president barroso has also stated here in the plenary, or are we going to pretend that we wanted a revision anyway and have failed in the end, as in many other social issues? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it can't be!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are living in a european union in which much is being done away with and increasingly in favour of the big corporations. the influence of lobbying in parliament, the commission and the council is certainly the main reason for this. it is therefore no surprise that the alpine-adriatic convention, which is so unpleasant, has still not been implemented. and who is to be surprised that more and more small and mediumsized enterprises are having to throw in the towel, faced with a veritable avalanche of bureaucracy and regulations, and of course because they are literally starving to death from the bottles of subsidies, while the giants, the multinational corporations, know how to use them to move like grasshoppers from one member state to the next, leaving behind a trail of destroyed jobs. if the citizens hear that, for example, during the debate and adoption of the much debated and hotly debated draft reach legislation on the better control of chemicals, 132 amendments were identical and accompanied by written recommendations from the chemical associations, if the citizens hear this, then naturally they will lose more and more faith in european politics and they will feel that european politics is implementing the wishes of industry, of multinational corporations, to do something. if we want to prevent this, if we want to curb growing euroscepticism, then we must undoubtedly get to the point where it is clear who is influencing european policy-making and who is advocating for which donors to participate in the legislative process.
mr president, number one: we congratulate alexander stubb on his elevation to foreign minister in finland. number two: we congratulate ingo friedrich and thank him for taking over the report and, hopefully, bringing it to a good end this afternoon. number three: we support the concept and the direction of the stubb/friedrich report. but... und jetzt weiter auf deutsch: nach diesem doppelten tribut an alexander stubb ein notwendiges aber. lobbying-regeln sind gut, aber wir im parlament haben bereits gute regeln, und ich bin mir nicht ganz sicher, ob dieser versuch der kombination tatsächlich der weisheit letzter schluss ist. transparenz ist gut, aber sie ist keine wunderwaffe, und sie ist es vor allem dann nicht, wenn sie letztendlich stückwerk bleibt. die registrierung und bekanntgabe der finanziellen verhältnisse registrierter lobbyisten ist sicherlich in ordnung. aber wie behandeln wir unsere zahlreichen briefschreiber, experten, sonstigen kontakte? verlangen wir von ihnen allen in zukunft auch die registrierung und bekanntgabe ihrer finanziellen verhältnisse? ich hoffe wohl nicht! und dann gibt es ausnahmeregelungen: im besonderen werden uns in zwei änderungsanträgen zwei ausnahmeregelungen vorgeschlagen, die allem anderen als der transparenz dienen. wenn es hier darum geht — und der änderungsantrag 3 wurde bereits angesprochen — die kirchen zu offiziellen lobbyisten zu erklären, so hat das mit dem thema transparenz überhaupt nichts zu tun, sondern ist schlicht und einfach ausdruck einer bestimmten antiklerikalen geisteshaltung. da sollten wir nein sagen! und das, was in änderungsantrag 10 in ähnlicher weise versucht wird, nämlich über eine ausnahme von der ausnahme eine regelung zu treffen, ist auch etwas, was der sache nicht dienlich, sondern in wirklichkeit der versuch ist, bestimmte bereiche zu pönalisieren. wir sollten sicherstellen, dass wir ein transparentes system haben, dass wir es verbessern. aber wir sollten nicht von vornherein davon ausgehen, dass das nun die große veränderung der situation ist.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have been in the european parliament for 12 years now and i have to say that i have to thank a lot of lobbyists because they have brought a lot of knowledge into the day-to-day work. i believe that it is always good, also for members of parliament, to listen to the different sides and to have an open door for the citizens. if we have 5,000 lobbyists registered at the moment, all of whom we can recognise by their badges, who are accredited or certified, then there are on average six lobbyists for every member of parliament. i think it is extremely important for us to incorporate the knowledge we gain from these specialists into our legislative work, because of course members of parliament cannot be specialists in every case. so it's important to listen to the practice to see that the lobbyists are actually an asset to us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a longstanding demand of all sports organisations has really come into force here today, namely to give sport more importance and also more visibility than it has had so far. the treaty of lisbon will make this clearer. the many qualities of sport as a social contribution, as a means of personality development, integration, etc. have already been underlined. sport is also a very important factor in health and it is therefore worth investing in sports, especially school sports. it's an investment that would surely yield a very high rate of interest. we therefore appeal to all the ministers of education in the member states: at least three hours of sport per week! otherwise, it's not much use. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am glad that the commission has taken this step. and i'd like to stick to that. the fact that sport is a very important economic factor is shown and underlined by the figures: 407 billion euros of added value in 2004, 15 million jobs and so on. that means there's rules. it is a matter of equanimity in sport, as ivo belet has just emphasized, to find a way of combining economy, transparency, the sale of clubs and the granting of licences. there must be rules that are fair here for the word fair play to have meaning. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. the media share would, i think, be more equitable. it's not all football, although i would like to invite everyone to the european championship in vienna. i'm looking forward to a big sporting event.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to say on behalf of my group that we are in favour of the report. we would like to withdraw this amendment no 3. we still believe that non-violence is not always enough to ensure the respect of human rights - i am only referring to kosovo and darfur. but this should not be taken to mean that we are against the principle of nonviolence. we shall therefore withdraw this motion. we shall vote in favour of the amendment tabled by the epp-ed group and then we can proceed in this way.
i have to say, madam president, i shall begin with the mavrommatis report. i have agreed to the report because it particularly highlights the role of lotteries and casinos in austria in the financing of sport. i welcome that paragraph. i have agreed to the friedrich report because the attack on the unique and comprehensive social role of the recognised churches has been rejected and the activity of lawyers is now considered in a differentiated way. i am interested in the expertise and information that can be gained from exchanging experience and discussing possible solutions with citizens, stakeholders, lawyers and lobbyists. i thank you for the hundreds of calls, e-mails and suggestions. a few have gotten on my nerves because they've just taken up time. i have learned and benefited from the overwhelming majority. i thank you for that, but i also want to say that the responsibility for dealing with lobbyists lies with us. we decide who we talk to, how long we talk, what we talk about, and how we work together. clear, transparent rules yes, over-regulation which makes cooperation difficult and bureaucratizes, no.
in writing. - i am voting for the excise duty rate because the goes brewery, which is known for producing europe's best beer, is not harmed by the local limitation of the decision.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the adoption of the report on human rights in the world and eu human rights policy. human rights are universal rights and must be fully respected. the eu has the opportunity to promote human rights globally, which requires a careful analysis of the current situation. that is why i welcome the initiative of marco cappato. the eu's human rights policy needs to be harmonised in order to achieve a common approach, for example against the death penalty or against torture. the european parliament has a duty to act. individual countries such as china, russia and iran show little interest in addressing the serious human rights violations in their countries. the eu must be strong and united in its approach to these countries, which can only be achieved through a common eu human rights policy.
in writing. - it is quite bizarre that the eu wants to call for a 'european year of nonviolence' but sends missions to chad, where french interests make the pretended impartiality impossible. and how non-violent and respectful of human rights has the eu been in relation to the secret cia prisons and raids? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action against terrorism, and that it is able to take action against terrorism. if the eu is really serious about its commitment to human rights, then all outstanding issues concerning us torture prisons and the cia's 'extraordinary rendition' programme must be fully resolved and negotiations with turkey must be stopped immediately. and the eu's human rights policy must also be about upholding democracy and democratic values in its own country.
in writing. - i am in favour of strengthening eu election observation missions to effectively support young democracies. i welcome the call for a european consensus on democracy, which could make the monitoring missions more effective. elections are an important step towards stable democracy and have a high symbolic value both within the country and internationally. the eu has taken a leading role in election observation and should now step up its role. i consider it particularly important to improve the follow-up after the elections. the eu must draw conclusions from the electoral process and respond in a coherent and comprehensible manner. it would also be useful if the european parliament were to support the newly elected parliament. i can also give my full support to these objectives on the basis of my own experience as an eu election observer in guatemala, since i was able to experience firsthand the need for them.
in writing. - this house likes to stick the word 'democracy' on its flags and sends observers to various elections. it is essential for the citizens of the country concerned that these are held fairly and correctly, and our influence in this matter is also an important contribution to democratic progress, provided that our recommendations are taken into account. but we really do not need to pretend to be so democratic in the eu. not as long as someone who speaks unpleasant truths is labeled a right-wing extremist. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. not as long as you let the people vote until the desired result is achieved. the european union is not a political union, but a political union.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report on the establishment of a regulatory framework for the activities of interest representatives in the institutions of the european union. in order to ensure the transparency of the european union institutions, a structured framework for lobbyists is needed. i also believe that lobbying should cover all areas of influence on policy-making in the european institutions. this means that all actors are treated equally.
in writing. - i am voting for the white paper on sport to emphasise the importance of sport in the european union and to encourage dialogue on this subject. sport is an effective means of social integration and of communication between people at national and international level. sport also has a significant economic dimension. it is therefore important to create a framework within which member states can promote sports organisations and events. since sport is highly national, countries must be allowed to self-regulate. the white paper emphasizes this and is also suitable as a basis for dealing with international aspects such as youth grants, anti-doping programmes and anti-discrimination in sport. i also welcome the creation of a special sports fund to support sporting activities and to make it easier for people to access sport.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to point out that we are going to ask for a postponement of the vote on the grosch report, which deals with rest periods and the question of bus drivers. there is a basic agreement between employers and employees, and we want to see that reflected in the grosch report. i would just like to inform the other groups that we will be requesting this postponement of the vote.
the commission has already done so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic crisis. temporary work agencies are becoming the largest employers in many countries. the increasing globalisation, with production moving to low-wage countries, is causing us to lose jobs on a massive scale. parttime work can only partially compensate for this. some 78 million europeans are now living on the edge of poverty through temporary work, one-euro jobs and mini-jobs. but you can't feed a family with a mcjob. the former guarantee of employment, good training, is also of more help in the rarest of cases. gross wages have fallen, in germany for example by almost 5% in three years, while the cost of living has risen massively with the introduction of the euro. in view of these facts, to rejoice at a mere increase in employment is, in my view, a mockery of every one of the millions of unemployed and of every one who, despite honest work, must live in poverty.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that small and mediumsized enterprises in particular play a major role in employment. after all, two thirds of our workers are employed in small and mediumsized enterprises, and these generate 50% of the gross national income. we should therefore ensure that our strategies promote vocational training in small and mediumsized enterprises, that new ways of offsetting the costs involved are created and that ultimately higher net wages are made possible for our employees. finally, it is also important to build the infrastructure to ensure that workers can safely get to work. the european union could well offer a model of best practice in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we can all agree that all possible measures must be taken to combat discrimination. the european parliament has therefore repeatedly called for the adoption of a new directive. four such directives already exist, one is in draft form so far. this means that we cover a very wide range of anti-discrimination measures. the point now is to finally implement these measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am opposed to taking the second step immediately before the first, which is to introduce a new directive with a whole host of new barriers, where equal opportunities authorities are called for. that means more bureaucracy. the fact that all laws must involve ngos for consultation and so on does not help us; if we are in favour of anti-discrimination, we must be in favour of what is currently law being implemented in the member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted in favour of this report for two main reasons: firstly, because this report urges the member states to finally implement the lisbon strategy and thus also employment policy measures. secondly, because it calls for the establishment of good and affordable childcare facilities in the member states. this is a crucial prerequisite for reconciling family and work. this is particularly in the interest of single mothers, as it will create employment opportunities and help to combat poverty. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the employment of young people.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all agree that all possible measures must be taken against discrimination. that is why we have agreed to four directives. a fifth is in preparation. it will also be supported. i voted against this report because it is following the wrong strategy, because it is not advocating the implementation of existing laws but is instead calling for a new directive, including new authorities, new bureaucracies and new control procedures. this means that barriers are being offered instead of solutions. this does not mean that discrimination is eliminated altogether. we are going to take a different path with my entire delegation. my delegation would like to see the member states finally being asked to implement all that is already law and not, as the report suggests, to take the second step before the first.
in writing. - in practice, we have still not been able to eliminate all the difficulties in the mutual recognition of professional qualifications, while maintaining the quality of work without creating unnecessary obstacles. in this context, it is worrying that the services directive has given a certain leeway to foreign service providers in the absence of effective controls and unexplained sanctioning possibilities, while domestic ones continue to have to strictly comply with the law and standards. in a few years' time our domestic companies will demand an adjustment to the rules applicable to foreign companies in order not to be lost in the merciless competition. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the eu must not encourage this development with the 'blue card'. we have enough skilled workers if we are willing to pay them a decent wage.
in writing. − it is in line with the european union's concept of solidarity to support the eu's outermost regions in order to reduce the disadvantages caused by their difficult accessibility. in particular, it is essential to ensure that these regions do not lose their capacity for agricultural self-sufficiency, which is also the general case for the european union as a whole. in this respect, it must be our common effort to preserve the small farming structures - including those of the austrian mining farmers, for example, but also those of each individual traditional small, medium and organic farmer - so that they can continue to maintain their ecologically valuable work and we do not lose our food sovereignty to giant farms or become dependent on large agricultural groups. that is why i voted for the sudre report.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. from the point of view of the idea, cabotage is a good thing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the number of vehicles on the road, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take action to reduce the number of vehicles on the road. it is a pity that this system has been abused very frequently in the past to undermine social standards and to gain market shares by dumping prices. the rapporteur has therefore gratefully chosen an approach which takes this into account. the crucial thing - and this is my appeal to the member states - is to control what is decided here, otherwise the whole thing cannot work. so i can agree with that part of the package. the bus traffic report is somewhat different. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, the opinion of the workers in this sector was not sufficiently consulted. i cannot agree to this arrangement after the amendments alone. but if there is an agreement between the social partners, that is to say between employers and others who are affected - people who are not in trade unions are also affected, we have a very low level of organisation in this area - then i want this regulation to be included. you'll have to wait and see. this is the kind of fairness that you have to have if you want to recognize the social partnership. so let us put this part off and find a better and smarter solution later, so that we don't have to renegotiate and then maybe we can't get anything done.
the commission has already done so. we in the european union are always - and often quite rightly - proud of the fact that we approach each other and try to find a solution together, and often succeed. it's not always easy. the joint debate on the two reports by mr ţicău and mr grosch today provides both good and bad examples of this: the 12-day rule and cabotage have been raised more than once. the 12-day rule is good, hopefully social. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's tourism industry is not left behind. we have heard that there are efforts to reach a good compromise, which may take a little more time. if it is a limited time, and i think that is what it is, then perhaps we should take that time. the same applies to the cabotage regulation. we all agree that we need to make better use of the different infrastructures, but this obviously has an impact on many areas, particularly the transport sector, as there are very different interests in the member states. i am not quite sure that the cabotage issue - and we have been discussing this for many years - does not involve a bit of euromythos. i would like to know whether the number of lorries that have to be overtaken on the motorway, or cannot be overtaken, is really as high as the number of empty lorries we hear about. perhaps a flag with the message 'i am driving empty' would be interesting. the real focus of our debate today is not so much what we decide in terms of legislation but what is then implemented, applied and implemented in the member states.
i have to say, madam president, i fully understand the fact that in many catch-the-eye procedures you cannot give everyone the floor. i do not understand at all that the selection then amounts to each group being given a speech. this is a massive distortion of the political weight in the european parliament. in fact, this way the small groups are always given a much greater weight. that is a legitimate political concern, but that is not what the rules of procedure provide for in catch the eye. i would also ask that in future when you come to the rules of procedure you be contacted.
in many cases, children are the victims of poverty, and a lack of nutrition affects not only their physical development but also their ability to concentrate and their academic performance. this may therefore have an impact on future prospects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i am sure it will be a good draft, especially since you have also mentioned the need for a balanced diet. that should be a priority. in this context, the commission could also give a further priority, namely to focus on products produced in a sound biological way, i.e. organic products. everyone has the right to eat slightly more expensive but much healthier products. how far will you take that into account?
is there any market research and opinion polls to determine the actual information needs of the european public about this reform treaty? is there a special focus on the politicians in europe, from the local level to the european level? what is the need for information here, and what will you do in the information offices in the capital cities to be able to provide a better offer?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i should also like to begin by thanking our rapporteur for his work. the report - as the previous speakers have said - is invariably based on the scientific facts on climate change, which were discussed in depth in the thematic sessions with world-renowned experts. agriculture and forestry is one of the economic sectors most affected by climate change and therefore has a strong interest in effective climate action at global level. it is essential that all countries, especially the developing countries, be involved in the post-kyoto period. it is also important to emphasize that agriculture is by no means a price driver of food prices, since, for example, the price of a single parcel of wheat processed here does not even account for 2% of the cost. it is also known that renewable raw materials for fuels of plant origin do not release more co2 when burned than was captured during their growth and are therefore very likely to be carbon neutral. the fact that humans are partly responsible for climate change has been recognized on the basis of sound research. this is why it is important to intensify research and to save energy by using it more efficiently. after all, it took 3,000 years for people to accept that the earth is not a disk but a sphere. i therefore hope that the house will have a serious discussion, since climate change is a global problem affecting society as a whole and cannot be solved by sectoral policies in the individual member states of the eu. a solution can only be achieved on a global scale, and the european union should play a leading and mediating role in the fight against climate change.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking mrs oomen-ruijten for her very fruitful and very constructive cooperation. i would also like to express my group's solidarity with mr langendijk, because we want to reject all unfair attacks against him. i would like to limit myself to one essential question, namely the question of the threat of banning two parties, the ak party and the dtp. in both cases we want to make it clear that these bans would be totally unacceptable to us and would be major obstacles to turkey's accession to the european union. it is unthinkable, in our democratic understanding, that a court should subsequently simply deprive many voters of the right to influence the political situation in their country by voting for themselves. this is unacceptable for the ruling party, but it is also unacceptable for the dtp. so there are fundamental legal and democratic considerations against it. as for the dtp: instead of preserving the opportunity to talk to the representatives of the kurdish population and to enter into a dialogue, because we reject terrorism together with the turks, they want to ban this party too. i know that not everyone in the dtp is ready for dialogue. we must approach each other and develop this dialogue accordingly. we therefore call very clearly and unequivocally on all moderate forces in turkey to do everything possible to ensure that these two parties can continue to operate in the political spectrum of the country. we know the process is long. the exit is open. but he must have a goal, and that goal must be accession. the european union must do much to achieve this goal, in communication with our people, but turkey must also do much to achieve this goal by implementing the necessary reforms. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, ria oomen-ruijten has presented a good and sober report. it has pointed to some progress and to many question marks and unresolved problems. the main question was only indirectly addressed: if turkey were reformed, would it have a right to membership? our existing eu law sets out a political alternative at the end of the negotiations, for us in the union and for turkey itself. that is why we in austria and elsewhere are calling for open negotiations with results. the accession is an option, not an anticipated outcome.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i assume that this is an oral amendment. that has not been said. but if it is, my group is in favour of voting on it today. it is also true that many catholics work here tomorrow, for example, on a holiday, despite the strike. this is a real situation. i would nevertheless recommend that we give our consent to this motion or that we ensure that this motion is put to the vote. if you, mr president, declare it inadmissible, the groups should try to reach a consensus on this point later.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have already announced on monday, in the interest of fairness, that we are asking for the vote on this report to be postponed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have had discussions with the political groups. we also got a big endorsement. even mr jarzembowski, who was the most difficult to convince, agreed with me this morning. so i hope we can do this in that sense. i therefore ask for the matter to be adjourned until one of the next two partsession.
in writing. − harmonisation of existing rules in this area is important to optimise road transport in the european union. in this context, a regulation is more appropriate than a directive. the regulations governing the occupation of road transport operator must meet precisely defined criteria in order to achieve the highest possible level of safety on the roads. these contain both the conditions and the sanctions. the monitoring and verification of data is key, while ensuring the protection of personal data. the networking of the national electronic registers containing the data is essential to ensure the benefits of the regulation by allowing comparability of the data. i strongly reject amendments nos 7 and 102, which seek to make the six-day rule worse. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. - i shall vote in favour of the report by mr grosch on access to the road haulage market. a combination of the current regulations and directive 2006/94/ec will simplify and improve access to the road haulage market. i agree with the rapporteur that the restrictions on cabotage transport must be relaxed and adapted to the crossborder transport of goods by road in the internal market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the railways are not left behind, and that the railways are not left behind.
in writing. - i am voting for the report by britta thomsen on 'women and science' as women are still underrepresented in science. the report contains important approaches to achieving a balance between women and men in academia. the promotion of women's academic careers must play a central role in this. the key here is to overcome gender stereotypes. the current allocation of female and male attributes in the individual scientific disciplines prevents a balanced gender ratio. new programmes and recruitment procedures can help to ensure that the focus is on a candidate's skills rather than gender. the same must apply to a person's career prospects and remuneration. a non-binding target of at least 40% women and 40% men is one way of reducing the gender gap in science, with the focus always on the skills of the applicant.
in writing. - if we in europe - albeit cost-intensively - invest in the latest environmentally friendly technology and renewable energy, while in china, for example, a new coal-fired power station is being connected to the grid every week, then everything we do here is just peanuts. we have the bizarre situation that those nations which are accelerating climate change by unrestrained industrialization and the exploitation of nature and are not prepared to provide remedies here, when they become victims of disasters, then also expect help from the west, especially from europe. we are supposed to protect the environment, often to the detriment of our industry and our import economy, and then to help the environmental offenders in the event of disaster with humanitarian aid. if we do not want any improvement to remain a wishful thinking on a global scale, we must increase the pressure on those six countries which are responsible for almost 50% of global greenhouse gas production.
in writing. − turkey has repeatedly demonstrated its eu immaturity, with human rights violations, the oppression of its minorities, air strikes against a neighbouring country and, most recently, the expulsion of the head of the austrian excavations in ephesus from her family circle, apparently because of her criticism of turkey. the cosmetic corrections to the turkish paragraph are misleading brussels about the raw violence against protesters and military aggression against northern iraq. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european community and the european free trade association.
i would like to ask a question about discrimination of another kind. your country, slovenia, is planning to issue motorway vignette from next july, in two versions, for six months and for one year. this is discrimination against tens of millions of eu europeans on their way to the mediterranean for summer holidays. what does the slovenian presidency intend to propose to the slovenian government on this point?
mr president, the enlargement of the schengen area last december has caused a number of citizens to worry that the shifting of the schengen borders means that they no longer enjoy the same level of security as before. after the schengen border has been moved outwards, can we say that cooperation between the police authorities of the member states has been successful in this respect?
mr president, commissioner vassiliou, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has been working on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. in addition to the lisbon agenda, one of our goals is of course to live long and healthy, which means to eat healthy. that is why we need healthy animals, so that a long and healthy life for all of us has the necessary foundation. i think it is therefore very important that we think about how we can create new principles in the food industry that simply guarantee food safety, that put sustainability at the centre of production and that guarantee consumer-friendly prices. it is precisely through international trade that europe has gained much. the average european family saves €5,000 per year and family through international trade. we should take this advantage into account.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this is a particularly important issue today because the european union has a special responsibility. we in europe are aware that we have a very successful concept with our small and mediumsized enterprise structures, and we must ensure that the net income, the gdp per capita, of the least developed countries can develop accordingly. self-help is a very important area here. we must also ensure that we put our concepts of energy efficiency and food security at the centre of our attention. we need income for work in these countries, and this is where the small and family farms can help, and we need purchasing power for consumers. i think this chicken-and-egg principle simply needs to be brought to a successful solution.
in writing. - it is essential to stop the rise in food prices, otherwise we are heading for great difficulties. we need multi-layered strategies that will not only boost food production - for example by temporarily suspending the set-aside premium - but also allow better coordination and distribution of food. the poor countries most affected by rising prices must be helped out of the crisis as quickly as possible, in a well-organized manner and, above all, in a sustainable way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. the debate on biofuels must not ignore the fact that their production has a very small impact on food prices, at 2% of the eu's arable land. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life. in this case, biomass would be the basis of the fuel, which is basically biological waste that is hardly used otherwise.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the staff of the house for hosting the energy globe awards, which was exemplary for the world and made a great impression on our house. thank you to all those who have worked with us!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i should like to begin by thanking mr kuhne for his report, particularly because it uses a broad concept of security and, accordingly, defines a broad range of security policy instruments, including, of course, the military, but not based exclusively on the military. mr wiersma will go into this in more detail. i would also like to thank mr saryusz-wolski for the good cooperation we have had, particularly with his report in the foreign affairs committee. i would like to mention two things. the first of these - and we have already discussed this in the group, as mr schulz has already said - is the question of energy security and the common energy policy. we are not here to criticize past bilateral agreements, which were concluded at a time when there was no discussion of a common security policy. but such agreements are being made today, and it is important to make clear, especially for the future, that such agreements, if they are made, must be embedded in a common security policy and a common energy policy. i spoke to a prominent representative of azerbaijan who is here in parliament today and he said: 'my friends, you are behaving very differently from china and russia.' this is unacceptable! we must act together if we are to pursue common objectives, and this has been rightly mentioned. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are talking a lot today about the union for the mediterranean. we as a group also call for a union for the black sea region. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i thank mr saryusz-wolski for recording this. the proposal, as far as we know from poland and sweden, is a good one. we support him! but he's not going far enough. we must go further if we are to represent our political interests in this region in particular. it is clear that we support this in the context of this report and will continue to discuss it in the context of the brok report, so that our common neighbourhood in the east and south can take part in the deliberations, the discussion and the implementation of the european objectives. finally, a remark on the diplomatic service - high commissioner solana has also spoken about this: there is a lot of discussion and we will also be making a report on this, but let me make it clear: we need a diplomatic service that is feasible and acceptable to the commission, the council and the member states, that is efficient and that can really assume political responsibility also towards this parliament. it is crucial for us to be clear that this service - however it is organised - is of course accountable to this european parliament through the high commissioner. the european union is not a party to the nuclear agreement, but it is a party to the nuclear agreement. it is quite clear that we are following the common line of being flexible, but also of being clear: we do not want any more nuclear weapons, especially not in this region. these would add to uncertainty rather than security. good luck in applying these principles. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i think the debate has shown very clearly that the european union can only become a political union under certain conditions. firstly, only if the treaty of lisbon is ratified and, secondly, only if there is a genuine european security and defence policy which deserves the name, that is, if it develops better than it has so far. the european union is also likely to evolve from a global payer to a global player. the preparations in chad are certainly not the glory of the event, but they are an example from which we as the european union have learned a lesson, because the shortcomings have simply become very obvious. this has once again shown that european security and defence policy requires compatible systems, new and rapid mechanisms for the provision of troops. the time for debate is over, the time for action should finally follow!
in writing. i am very much interested in the good relations between the european union and the acp states, and i am therefore very pleased that the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is becoming more and more political in its form and quality. however, it is essential that the agenda for the negotiations on the economic partnership agreements and more generally for cooperation between the eu and the acp states includes issues such as sustainable development, human rights, democracy and the establishment of functioning systems of the rule of law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the impact of climate change could be particularly devastating in the regions of the acp states. the eu must lead by example and respect the 2007 objectives and commitments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. another issue that we must address is water. water scarcity and drought are major problems in the acp countries and solutions must be found to prevent environmental flight.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to stress that the commission's proposals, the objectives and the demands of the members in the two reports, the impact of these reports on the citizens of europe, deserved better debate time and more audience. secondly, with these reports and the debate with the commission we are taking the next step in strengthening supply and demand in the financial services sector. i would like to thank mr pittella, mr olle schmidt and mrs starkevičiūtė for their good cooperation. the broad majority in the committee has shown that we have moved on to each other and have nevertheless made many new demands. what do we want? we want to develop the internal market for retail financial services and make it a home market for all consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises. i say this even though i know that the retail market is and will remain more of a local business than a global business. nevertheless, there is great potential, as only 1% of eu consumers buy financial services cross-border via telecommunications, compared to 26% domestically. there are - as the commission and parliament's reports say - unjustified blockages despite the differences in responsibilities, which does not mean that nothing has happened in the past. i would point out that since 1988 the liberalization of intra-european capital movements has been progressing. the introduction of the euro has brought benefits to consumers and the economy. the financial services action plan, the white paper on financial services policy 2005-2010 or sepa, the single european payments area consumers and providers benefit from these policy developments. it is not over, but we are determined to continue on the road! both commission reports - and perhaps ours - have weaknesses, of course. the green paper has one weakness: it is almost exclusively concerned with consumers. the internal retail market also affects smes. we also know that consumer protection measures alone cannot make a supplier cross the border. the weakness of the sectoral survey is undoubtedly that we rely on very little data. thus, a potential foreclosure is assumed on the basis of prices alone. we therefore also call on the commission in our report to carry out a sound impact assessment, which must include a proper assessment of the initial market conditions and must assess integration and competition within the market and the impact of an initiative not only on the basis of a single indicator but on the basis of the widest possible range of measurements. however, we also support the commission's approach of pursuing only those initiatives which have been shown to offer concrete benefits to citizens, which are well founded on carefully conducted cost-benefit analyses and have been subject to properly conducted impact studies. i could point out other weaknesses, but i would like to limit myself to what we have also stressed in the reports. a key message from this parliament is that we clearly recognise the decentralised sector. we need savings banks and cooperatives alongside the stock companies. we need cross-border local champions, not just global champions. they are responsible for local supply, for economic development in the individual regions and for security of supply. the second point is that we need a balance between supply and demand. and thirdly, we need to harmonize the licensing and reporting requirements. insurance companies and banks operating across borders are subject to the supervision of several financial authorities. we should harmonize and create a level playing field here. we should expand e-commerce. the promotion of distance transactions must further promote the spread of a secure electronic signature and the money laundering directive should be reformed where it stands in the way of this. the following points were also raised: agents and brokers are important for more competition in the financial services sector. we need easier access to credit data and credit card registers and we need the extension of the block exemption regulation because we do not think that cooperation in this area distorts competition when the conditions are clearly defined. i would ask the commission and my colleagues to look at these reports as a whole and to adopt or support the further considerations the 44 clarifications or measures in my report .
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. both the karas report and the pittella report show that there is still a lot of work to be done in the area of retail services such as bank accounts, loans and insurance for consumers. banks, whose market volume is influenced by up to 50% of retail business, are no longer interested in customer mobility and, unfortunately, only partially interested in transparent comparisons of performance. the relationship of trust between the bank and the customer, which is in itself good but often misinterpreted, is also binding and less conducive to customer mobility and competition. competition correction can therefore primarily be carried out by enlightened and well-informed customers themselves. finally, we have also included an eu budget line to build financial market expertise in consumer and sme organisations. i just want to remind you of that. moreover, the reduction of barriers must not lead to a deterioration in consumer protection levels. furthermore, the call for collective redress in cross-border litigation in relation to financial products, as decided by the imco committee, is the appropriate complement to fair market conditions. in general, however, new financial products must be presented objectively and correctly. the commission is invited to incorporate regulatory requirements for the provision of information and the distribution and organisation of comparable products for retail clients in all financial market legislation. in particular, for example, in the case of life insurance linked to a fund and other long-term savings products, the principles of the mifid directive on best advice should also be made applicable. the consumer, the customer, and thus the creation of a thriving market must be the top priority of our action.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i would like to thank all those involved, as i did at the beginning, and ask the commission to take parliament's proposals fully into account in its legislative deliberations. the second point is a note: i would like to point out to my colleagues that the report on consumer education - we have talked a lot about it today - is being debated in the house in the area of financial services and will be debated in the plenary in the autumn. another point is that we should not forget that the different tax systems of the member states constitute a major obstacle to the provision of crossborder financial services and that this also leads to a lack of interoperability, especially where financial products are taxed. i would also like to appeal to industry and the banks to take steps to self-regulate in order to achieve the objective of the green paper. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards the bank charges mentioned by mrs roithová, the commissioner has already referred to sepa. but we also have many other obstacles, namely the obstacle that often rights acquired in one country cannot be taken to another country, the obstacle that an account can be opened when one changes residence. the lack of e-commerce design: cross-border payments work, but there are barriers to opening accounts and other rights that we need to remove. we have enough work to do, the proposals are on the table. we should get results and continue to work consistently!
the commission has already done so. human trafficking, as we have heard, is a crime against humanity, especially against women - a new form of slavery and a very lucrative business, with a variety of characteristics and a turnover of 44 billion euros per year, according to the osce. it is worth discussing this at length and also showing the various facets. we are dealing today with trafficking in women or forced prostitution following the action we already had at the 2006 world cup in germany. there was also a report here in the house which i was able to write on the subject of forced prostitution, and in which we called for various measures from the commission. reaction was the plan of action. the question of implementation has been raised several times today, and i should like to emphasize it: it is about residence permits for victims, it is about training campaigns in police schools, social academies and the like, and it is also about education in the countries of origin and educational and training opportunities for the women and young men in the area. they are also increasingly affected. the european union is also committed to the fight against trafficking in women. otherwise, i can't see much of the action. the attention to this issue has also declined after the red card action and after the world cup and so we want to give a new impetus. it is not about banning prostitution or discriminating against sex workers. on the contrary! it is about raising awareness and it is also about rejecting stigma and building a social network to protect sex workers in their profession. the commission is also strongly opposed to forced prostitution. the european football championship in austria and switzerland gives us the opportunity to draw attention to this. i can assure you that the austrian authorities will take appropriate measures and i would like to invite you to a nice european championship and wish you fair play and fair sex.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have chosen a system whereby every establishment that produces, processes or markets food must continuously and consistently monitor and document every single step of its work. while we are debating whether food hygiene is guaranteed, consumers are alarmed by bse, scandals surrounding minced meat, olive oil and wine laced with glycerin. the increasing use of genetically modified food in the eu, despite the fact that 70% of the european population reject it, does not exactly contribute to confidence building either. that is why the decision to be taken today must be carefully considered and it must be ensured that the health of our citizens is not sacrificed in any way in a kneeling before the food companies in the run-up to the us-eu summit. we cannot demand that our domestic producers comply with stricter regulations and then allow the importation of foodstuffs that are not produced to the same exacting standards, which in turn gives us a competitive advantage in terms of price. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. before you all - if possible - give your consent to the report, a brief message to you and an appeal to the council, which is not here again: the member states and the european union want and must take more ambitious and effective action against corruption than before. the european parliament has therefore pledged its support for the establishment of a network of contact points to combat corruption. that is what the committee responsible has unanimously decided. the aim of this network is to promote cooperation between the authorities in the member states on the one hand and the exchange of information on effective strategies on the other. but the council proposal we have on the table is simply too unambitious, too feeble and therefore superfluous in its present form. parliament has therefore tabled some very substantial amendments and, as i said, adopted them unanimously in committee. firstly, olaf, europol and eurojust should be an integral part of this network, that is to say, they should be obliged to participate. secondly, the network should submit an annual report on its activities to the european parliament and make concrete proposals in the context of the fight against and prevention of corruption. thirdly, the costs of the members of this network should be borne by the european union in order to ensure the independence of the members of the network. i would therefore appeal to the council to incorporate parliament's proposals and to set up the network of contact points quickly, so that we have the unique opportunity of finally having a common european union strategy and a suitable instrument in the fight against corruption.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to thank mr grosch and the members of the transport committee for allowing us to postpone this until today. as you can see, we have broad support for this today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to point out that i abstained from this report, but not because i do not think that young farmers need support. i am very much of the opinion that young farmers in particular are certainly facing greater problems than some other farmers. the reason i abstained was the vote on paragraph 4, which referred to the so-called new member states. i think that after almost one legislative term it is time to stop calling these so-called new member states new member states and to call them the real, full-fledged member states that they have become, in my view, a long time ago.
in writing. - corruption is a widespread problem which does not affect any part of our society, whether in business, trade unions, public offices, etc. after the billion-dollar corruption cases at siemens, the newspapers are now full of scandal in the polish football league team. and the eu too is making headlines with accusations of corruption, mismanagement, waste of money and so on. it is therefore positive that the anti-corruption unit greco is dealing with the efforts of all council of europe states in relation to corruption. let us hope that the consequences will be taken into account. not only does bulgaria need to improve its anti-corruption policy, but the eu must also take the lead in this regard. we still have to complain about the way in which eu funds are being handled, the lack of controls, the slow pace of procedures and the lack of recovery of eu funds wrongly spent.
in writing. − natural disasters not only cause untold suffering and countless deaths, but also destroy essential infrastructure such as power lines, roads and bridges. in addition to providing food and water for the injured, it is therefore important to repair and repair the damage quickly. in 2002, the eu decided to provide financial assistance to victims in such cases, given the scale of the damage. it is of course important to ensure that the funds are not misused, but this must not lead to the fact that the payment of the same as the court of auditors has already established takes an average of 12 months to be made.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not we have just changed the title of the debate and given the scope - although there are different views on this - of the decision in ireland it would be reasonable for this house to have some time to discuss these problems. we therefore ask that the second item on the agenda be moved from the morning to the afternoon. i know that the time is running out in the afternoon, but nevertheless this postponement makes sense in view of the urgency and importance of this council. we would not object to the postponement of one or other item of the agenda to a later part-session, but in any case we now ask that we discuss only the title and its contents, as amended, in the morning so that there is enough time for that.
in writing. with the new waste framework directive, parliament has now enforced the setting of high and mandatory recycling quotas. this was also urgently needed and i now look forward with confidence to a future in which waste separation and recycling will be increasingly practised throughout europe. i believe that 50 per cent recycling of household waste and 70 per cent of construction and demolition waste by 2020 is a very good target, paving the way for a functioning, environmentally and climate-friendly waste management throughout europe. i am very pleased that all the other member states will now be involved, and that we will be one step closer to effective environmental protection, precisely because the austrians are already setting an example in the separation and recycling of waste. because we should not forget that waste is also a resource, and its more efficient use can also help in the fight against climate change. the commission's proposal is to be expected, and it is to be expected that it will be a concrete proposal on how we can avoid economic growth being waste growth at the same time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to thank the rapporteur and the commission for the very constructive work that has been done. i would remind you that this is a compromise package. it is a very good compromise that has been negotiated here and it is another mosaic stone on the road to excellent water quality in europe. i would like to stress that europe is the continent or the political entity where we pay great attention to our environment and set very high standards. it may be that it could be achieved more quickly, but if we compare it with other regions of the world, we can say that we have reached a standard that is very high. and it must be preserved and improved. in this context, i would also like to remind the commission that we should sell these successes, which we have undoubtedly achieved in european environmental policy, particularly in water policy, accordingly. the irish referendum in particular shows that we have not succeeded in bringing these successes to the man. europe is very successful in this area, but few citizens are aware that the eu has a major role to play. it may also be that lobby groups have watered down the compromise in part. but other lobby groups have also emerged that have helped to make the compromise very much mean that industry, agriculture and other polluters have to make very big efforts. in this context, i would also like to remind you that water is certainly going to be one of the elements that will concern us more and more politically in the future. i would ask the commissioner to pay particular attention to this future water policy, because we are facing a lot of challenges in the context of climate protection, and water will become increasingly important in the economy and in people's lives. the compromise is balanced on the whole and i can ask all my colleagues to agree to it. that's all i could do.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is also good that slovakia has the opportunity to join this eurozone. we must imagine what would have happened in europe last year without the euro. national currencies would have been the target of attack, as in the days of soros. however, we also see from italy that being firmly in the euro is sometimes not a good thing. if you were to give slovakia advice, which would of course have to decide for itself, i would consider an opt-out, especially in view of what is happening at european level. we are in danger of the eu summit not recognizing the signs of the times, and going for a 'keep it up'. the distance between citizens and the european elite is growing, so that the whole european project is in danger instead of working towards real democracy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as far as we understand it, this was an electronic verification of a vote that had already been taken. in this respect, the will was clear.
in writing. − in an eu with open borders, good cooperation between the authorities is necessary to keep pace with the fight against crime. the aim of a european internet portal where citizens and businesses can find out about their rights in the context of criminal proceedings is certainly a sensible one. the establishment of an electronic criminal record facilitating the exchange of data across national borders can only be welcomed if the requirements of data protection are sufficiently taken into account. in practice, much will also depend on how acts which are punishable in one member state but not in another are dealt with. i think that these questions have not been sufficiently clarified in advance, and i therefore abstained.
in writing. - flowers of excellent quality from the east are constantly appearing. finally, the european union is naturally very attractive to counterfeiters, since people are not so familiar with the new currency, and machines are not immune to fraud either. the improvement in the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is welcome, which is why i also voted for the diaz de mera report. it is one thing to work constantly on how to make the euro more secure. but this is of no use if people still have too little knowledge of safety features. the ecb and the member states are called upon to step up their efforts to improve information. and across the eu, we also need to ensure that professional counterfeiters can be caught quickly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − especially with water, our liquid gold, it is essential for the future that we pay attention to its quality and do not slacken our efforts to protect it. if it turns out that the water quality in the new member states is lower and there are problems with non-member countries, we will have to look more closely for solutions here. in particular, illegal waste disposal and waste water disposal must be stopped. the fact that intensive agriculture can be water-intensive should give us an incentive to restructure agricultural support in such a way that traditional and environmentally friendly farming methods, such as organic farming, are more promoted. i believe that this report will help to improve the monitoring of water quality, which is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - at the end of april, 53% of slovaks were still against the introduction of the euro. fears such as the surrender of sovereign rights to the ecb are to be taken as seriously as the public's fears of price increases. a later entry into the euro gives the countries concerned the opportunity to implement the necessary reforms at a slower pace and gives people more time to adjust. if countries like the united kingdom, denmark and sweden can retain their monetary autonomy, then we should allow others to do so as well. in any case, the sovereign the people must decide. and this decision must be respected and not be trifled with, as has been the case with the constitution and is being discussed again. i think that the will of the people is not sufficiently taken into account here, and i have therefore abstained.
i have to say, madam president, but ireland has voted. respect what has been decided in ireland. then europe will have the chance of the century, which means that europe must finally become democratic and efficient. for the energy market, this means: trust the big tigers, rwe, edf, trust yourself to go in the middle, where the problem is, disentangle and be subsidiary at the same time. it is possible, it would be visionary, but it has nothing to do with the eu as it is today, which is guided by lobby interests and corresponding centres of power. but if you do not change anything in this area, if you do not take account of the vote in ireland and declare the reform treaty dead, then the chance of the century for a democratic europe and also for a fair energy market will be a world in which the far left and the far right will have the upper hand.
i have to say, madam president, at the latest now, with record oil prices, energy independence must be a priority for europe. the eu is called upon to reduce its existing dependence on the gulf states. we must improve our relations not only with russia, but also with the rest of the world, without allowing this to lead to an oppressive relationship of dependence. we will probably have to think about iran in the long term. if a study concludes that we are relying too much on vague promises from central asian dictators and unconfirmed reports of oil reserves in relation to the nabucco pipeline project, then we will have to find a constructive relationship with iran, which after all has the second largest oil reserves in the world. it must not be forgotten that the ever-increasing profits of the gulf states, thanks to the rapidly rising oil prices, are also used time and again to promote islamic fundamentalism in the world. this is another reason why i believe that it is the imperative of the hour that we in the eu invest more in alternative energy sources.
i have to say, madam president, what particularly surprises me about this debate is that some colleagues want to prescribe in detail how the competition is to take place - and there are several possibilities - but are not prepared to talk about more transparency, more incentives to save energy, complaints to energy consumers or the fight against energy poverty. but these are precisely the points in the morgan report which i consider to be very crucial - and of course also in the report by mrs de vits. this is the message we must send to the citizens of europe tomorrow: we must say that people must not be hit by the full force of price increases, but that there must be ways of avoiding them by saving more energy and, above all, by being more transparent so that they can choose other energy suppliers. giving citizens this freedom of choice and also giving them the opportunity to complain where there is abuse - i think this is crucial. i am very grateful to mrs morgan for this part of her report.
i have to say, madam president, the european energy agency in paris has determined that we will have an energy shortage in 2012. so we need to think hard about how we can incentivise more investment in the network and in production. this directive is a good incentive to reduce the approval periods as well, so that we do not have a blackout in 2012. it is also important to strengthen national regulators so that we have the ability to enforce the interests of our own industry in neighbouring countries accordingly. it would also be good if we had a nuclear regulator who could speak out on safety and security in this area, following the french model. this is something that should be discussed in the council this week.
the commissioner, the increase in food prices is a phenomenon that is widespread in the eu and a problem that is causing enormous problems, particularly for low-income families and small earners, and is pushing them almost to the brink of ruin. how far will the proposed european food aid programme for the needy be advanced in order to help those threatened by these food price increases, and even those threatened by hunger, quickly?
the commission has already done so. finally, you have now indirectly mentioned eco-labelling. the question i wanted to ask indirectly is: have we ensured that the origin of the fish is also transparent to the consumer in terms of production and production designation, so that the consumer knows where and from which aquaculture they come? so it is not just a question of whether these are biologically valuable methods, but also the question of origin as such. are there any rules on this?
i'm not going to tell you. i would like to add the following to this question: i have recently been contacted by several austrian consumer protection organisations who have pointed out that it is becoming increasingly apparent that, particularly in the case of shellfish imports within the union, which then also come to austria, these shellfish are treated with antibiotics and other not very cheap medicines which are then taken in through food, apparently for economic reasons - perhaps because they can then be raised better. is there any action on the part of the commission to limit or prevent this in the future?
the commission has already done so. agricultural issues have played a relatively large role in the irish no campaign. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. if so, has the commission tried to counter this by providing information?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. people don't have their own personal battle zones. it can go very fast with serious injuries. we just saw that in the football match between france and italy. franck ribéry, first diagnosis, a broken leg, and he's been in the hospital for two days. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's transport policy is not in line with the community's transport policy. we need to get the vehicles up to speed so that the pedestrians have a chance. the text we are presenting calls for a package of passive and active safety systems. we are right to demand continuous updating and we want to give the manufacturers the time needed to do so in good time. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. it's about the psychology. we must not give too much security to drivers and pedestrians. i would therefore urge that we also introduce accompanying measures in other areas. we need a comprehensive package, and the various legislators, both at european and national level, are well advised to ensure that this very feeling of security does not ultimately cost more security than it brings. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we were able to agree to his proposals in the committee on transport after a good discussion - not just us, but apparently the council as well. in this respect, at any rate, mr ferrari has done his name justice. we have a first reading consensus, and that's a good sign. thank you very much.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president-in-office, when i hear the governments today, they are talking about an irish problem. when i speak to the citizens, they talk about a european problem and a conflict with europe. if i listen to the governments, we are dealing with a diplomatic conflict. when i speak to the citizens, we are dealing with the insult to the sovereign, with the feeling of being excluded, with deep distrust. when i hear governments, they say an incomprehensible no. i hear the citizens talking about an incomprehensible treaty and an incomprehensible approach. when i hear governments talking about it, they say that now is the time to do the real work. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. they do not talk about military, police and internal security, they talk about social responsibility, they talk about europe's response to globalisation, they talk about more democracy and transparency. mr president-in-office of the council, the governments want to ask the irish government what led to the 'no'. governments should ask themselves: where was the fall? they didn't read the signs on the wall after the "no" vote in france and the netherlands. have the governments taken up the real tasks? in the revision of the treaty, have they really taken up the disappointed expectations? have the french not called out loud enough for a new social order, for social responsibility and equality? didn't they call for more democracy? and what did you do? they have wrapped up a treaty in an illegible desert of footnotes and footnotes and text and now they are surprised that the citizens do not agree. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that responsibility lies with you, the governments! it 's time again today ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. now that the irish people have said no to the eu treaty, the eu's bigwigs have no choice but to anger the irish and summon the prime minister to the european council, where he will have to defend this 'misconduct' as it were. this is childish and unworthy of the european vision of the founding fathers! the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. if the vote is repeated until the desired result is achieved, it will cause irreparable damage to europe's image. since 1990, 290 referendums have been held in europe. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life in the eu. this brussels understanding of democracy, that citizens have to approve eu decisions or simply agree with the parties the eu wants, is really reminiscent of the soviet union. instead of beating itself up in scorn, the eu must see ireland's no for what it is: an opportunity for a return to a policy for the peoples and citizens of europe!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's about improvement, not justification! but it must be made clear that national governments bear the primary responsibility for the eu mood in our member states. the eu summit tomorrow and the day after should therefore have a result: the apology of the heads of state or government to the citizens of their member states for their insincere attitude towards community decisions, for the insufficient information and communication to their citizens, for the lack of courage and sincerity in their co-responsibility for european decisions. european policy is domestic policy. it must therefore also become an integral part of information and communication policy. to make the european union the scapegoat for all problems, instead of being co-responsible, and to ask the people for their consent two weeks before a referendum is dishonest, irresponsible, false! ladies and gentlemen, we need to improve!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i rejected this report because it misses the point on three important points. firstly, it was not possible to pass amendments nos 170 and 171, which would have dealt with the problems of regional networks in particular and would have created exceptions here justified by the size of the area. secondly, the third option was not taken either. it is important that we create planning certainty in the energy sector. unfortunately, the commission has won here with its legal unbundling and total unbundling. i don't think this is going in the right direction. thirdly, we have not been able to establish a nuclear liability in the event of an accident. for all these reasons, the ppp club opposed and could not agree to this package.
the ppe-de group has tabled a number of amendments. the commission is not i have agreed to this report. i think it makes sense to create a european internal market in the energy sector. we also need this network of transmission and telecommunications operators. the only thing to be done in implementing this is to ensure that we really create a level playing field, but at the same time allow for regional exceptions. it must be possible to cross-subsidise between different energy sectors in order to ensure energy supply in the most remote regions and valleys and also on islands. it is likely that the energy supply there is much more expensive and not so interesting for the companies financially. it is therefore necessary to provide for the possibility of creating a compensatory allowance. i would like to make a brief comment to my british colleagues. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. perhaps you should first amend the national constitution so that this direct democratic instrument is now generally introduced. i would appreciate it.
in writing. − most of the estimated 42 million refugees in 2007 are economic migrants who risk their lives by joining illegal smugglers on their way to el dorado. the result is not only innumerable human tragedies, but also a burden on the social systems of the countries of arrival and a blockage of the courts with hopeless asylum procedures, which also makes life difficult for those who would actually be entitled to asylum. in the past, some member states have attracted millions more illegals through mass legalisation, or through mini-arrest and residence automation. although the measures envisaged by the return directive are far too lax, they are at least a step in the right direction, particularly when the minimum detention period is a tightening for some eu countries, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - e.on and rwe have not only left the transmission networks under pressure from the commission, but, in view of the unbundling that has taken place to date, the network accesses have largely lost their strategic function of defending against new competitors. there is a huge need for investment in power plant and grid infrastructure, some of which is decades old, across europe. as the experience of the radical privatisation of railways in england shows, financial investors have little interest in safe infrastructure. the new network access rules now being targeted could have the same effect. that is why i voted against the vidal-quadras report.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i personally have great respect for the two speakers from the council and the commission. i think that the proposals we have heard today and in the last few days are too late and too weak. for example, the word speculation does not appear in the commission's paper at all. not that this is the main cause of the price increases, but to publish a paper today without any reference to it - the g8 is even more advanced than the commission! as regards the question of high profits, which of course is not discussed here, i have repeatedly appealed to you, commissioner, if there are no controls, at least to ensure that some of these high profits - as is now being discussed in part in france - go to energy saving measures, the development of alternative energy sources and research. you didn't say anything about that today, and nothing will be done. we agree in principle with the commission's proposals on energy saving and consumer protection, but they were very weak. it took this parliament and this decision today in the context of the morgan report to massively extend the rights of consumers, particularly in terms of energy saving, smart meters, etc. the social measures you propose - it could have been said a long time ago that social measures are necessary. we have discussed ireland today. one of the things that worries the citizens is that brussels - if i may put it simply - does not respond to their specific concerns, that they do not receive signals. whether it is small and mediumsized fishermen or the socially vulnerable consumers, they want to hear from brussels something that will at least help them to get out of this difficult situation. we expect clear signals from the commission and the council, particularly in the next few days.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are many colleagues in this house who come from countries which have had a bad experience with the soviet union. the commissioner and i come from a country which has had both good and bad experiences with the former soviet union. today's russia is in some ways reminiscent of the soviet union's past, but it is also a new russia, and it has new potential. we must now work with all our might to ensure that we have a new russia which no longer reminds us of the soviet union's past. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and to prevent it from spreading. whether it is the kosovo problem, we have a different position from russia, but we still need to talk to russia about it in order to solve the problems. whether it is the neighbourhood, we have a different offer for the neighbouring countries. russia often still has this imperialist attitude towards its neighbours. if we want to help those countries, we must clearly support, for example, georgia and all the other countries, but at the same time we must also talk to russia about how to achieve a peaceful solution to the conflicts, whether it be abkhazia or south ossetia. on energy issues, we must see to it that we get our own resources, that we get a nabucco pipeline, for example, so that we are also in a stronger negotiating position with russia. nevertheless, we must negotiate with russia on energy and other issues. that is why my group and i do not exclude the possibility that we need both - a clear, unambiguous position and an independent policy - and yet, on the basis of this strong position, negotiations and talks with russia. i hope we get to the point.
i have a question, minister. i have heard that there are some differences in the treatment of passengers with reduced mobility on airlines and that in particular the so-called low-cost airlines do a little less well than other airlines. i would like to know whether the council is also aware of these facts or whether they are merely individual perceptions.
mr president of the council! i would like to join in that question. this week we have a number of relevant reports on road safety on the agenda: the ferrari report has been mentioned, tomorrow gurmai, tonight markov. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
we seem to have different legal opinions on that. i believe that this system is discriminatory against eu citizens from outside slovenia. mr minister, is there any possibility that the european commission will initiate infringement proceedings against slovenia? the first steps towards this seem to have been taken. i would now like to ask you: as president of the council of the republic of slovenia, would you not advise that a 10-day vignette be introduced to bring peace to the country and to ensure that such an infringement procedure does not take place?
mr president, i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. transitional arrangements are usually conceivable for one, two, three months. what is emerging here is clear discrimination against non-slovenes and therefore other eu citizens for several years. commissioner tajani confirmed last night that there is already a letter from the directorate-general for transport seeking to clarify this discrimination. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that tourists have the opportunity to travel through slovenia at low prices this summer. we like to go there.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's not exactly a crowd, but the subject matter would be important enough. the second reading on the transport of dangerous goods leads me to point out again and again a serious problem, namely that every directive is as good as its control. we have a slightly increasing number of dangerous goods being transported by all modes of transport. unfortunately, we are also seeing a growing negligence, as the inspectors tell me, with regard to the declaration of goods, for example. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. for example, if the fire department cannot identify the fire extinguishing agent it needs to use because of the goods being transported, the consequences can be fatal. just because the chemist in the country happened to be a fireman, my near-hometown innsbruck in this sense came very close to a gigantic catastrophe. so, please keep an eye on the controls! this is the headquarters, this is the important thing. i would also like to make an appeal to the member states. i can see an improvement in the introduction of inland waterway transport. in the case of a chemical accident in a river in particular, the environmental damage can be extremely long-lasting and fatal. what i find important is that the prescription of the routes is still clearly contained and reinforced. it is particularly important to avoid major hazards on slopes and uphill sections, where traffic density may be very high, especially at certain times of the year or at the beginning of the holidays. i think that the extension of the obligation to accompany particularly dangerous goods, i.e. corrosive or explosive goods, would also be necessary and appropriate. we should go a step further here, because then the other road users are also at risk and in the event of an accident there would be great difficulties. unfortunately, the checks show that the condition of the vehicles is often not very good either. i therefore conclude with an appeal: control ensures the effectiveness of this directive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr vice-president of the commission, i would like to congratulate you on your new role. we will probably have more conversations on transport, and i look forward to that. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for ensuring that we have a good legal text. we now need to ensure that this legislation is implemented in the member states as quickly as possible and, more importantly - as has already been said today - we must then apply the relevant national laws and regulations on the ground. we need commitment and attention from the authorities responsible. we do not need nonchalance and winking of those who are supposed to carry out the surveillance. it is also important - and this has been said - that the declaration of dangerous goods be carried out in such a way that monitoring and monitoring can actually be carried out in a proper manner. we shall then have more safety on the roads and also on inland waterways.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not in your comments on this directive, commissioner, you mentioned that the statistics on deaths in accidents show a deterioration, and that it was only in the last year before that that there was a reduction in the number of deaths. this probably has little to do with infrastructure, because it is not possible that in one year the state of europe's roads will deteriorate so rapidly that suddenly many more people will have to be involved in accidents. as you can see from my introduction, i am a little skeptical about this directive. i too would have thought that guidelines would have been the answer. i am not yet clear about the added value of this directive. i shall look very closely at what is really happening in practice. what i have a problem with over and over again is that i think there is an imbalance when it comes to road safety. on the one hand, we are very quick to make technical regulations, even if they are simply an increase in costs, the benefits of which for safety are not fully apparent. we are also very generous with infrastructure and we have very extensive prescriptions. but when it comes to the human being who is still central to the accident, there is a great deal of reluctance in this house to want to discuss the subject at all. i still believe that if a driver does not manage to adapt to the environmental conditions, it will be very difficult for him to do so, because we cannot yet standardise the weather in europe, and the weather has always had a major impact on the accident scene. i'm waiting for the implementation. i'll be watching this very closely.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. road safety is an important european issue. we have a lot of work to do to ensure that the road safety and the environment along the roads are as safe as we all want them to be. we need regulations for that too. but paper is known to be very patient, and too much paper can be harmful. the first draft of the treaty of rome had exactly this defect, apart from a lot of new bureaucracy: too much weight and too little content. that is why we referred it back to committee at first reading. now, in the second attempt, the situation is different and - i'll be careful to say this - a little bit better. the main points of this text have already been mentioned by mrs renate sommer. we want a guideline, not a binding one. we want to share and have shared best practice. we do not want to impose one or the other. we also want in particular that the annexes should not be binding on the member states. we are deliberately confining ourselves to the european road network. since many colleagues have said that a lot of things can and do happen on the low-level transport network, i would point out that nothing prevents member states from taking action there. on the contrary, we would all be glad if the member states were to do their own work there and not wait for europe to do its work in each individual case. in this way, i believe that we have made and can make a constructive contribution to this subject, even though we have reduced bureaucracy. and now that consensus has been reached with the council in the informal trilogue, we can even conclude this subject at first reading. now we just have to implement it - but that is the responsibility of the member states.
i have to say, madam president, i am the rapporteur on urban mobility and my main task at the moment is probably to get our plenary to vote on the report which has already been prepared in the committee on transport during the july part-session so that we can send the right signals in time for the commission's planned action plan on this subject in the autumn. one of these signals is directly relevant to our subject today. we have increasing problems, both in general and especially in the cities, in raising funds to build the hardware, that is, the road, on a large scale. there are also a number of good reasons not to do so. we have seen the need to make better use of this scarce road with the appropriate software, with smarter vehicles, with a reasonably organized traffic system. so the issue of traffic jams is one where we definitely need new and better technologies. we have also organised a hearing in this context as part of our discussions in the committee on transport, and we have received the statement from the industry - not surprisingly - that anything is possible. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states on the safety of vehicles. this is an argument which has rightly been raised in our debate today. it is not that we reserve the best new technologies for a few vehicles and then the masses of people have problems again and the systems do not really fit together. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this context, a final argument - and it has been rightly raised by mr koch - is that new, good and better technology can make vehicles safer, traffic less dangerous, but it can also lead, if used incorrectly, to the psychological argument that my car does everything anyway, that i as a driver no longer have to worry about safety. more relaxed driving is nice, safer and above all, conscious driving is much more important in my opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i should like to take this opportunity to congratulate you, mr zita, on your report. i know you as someone who, when she's up to something, does it with spirit, with great commitment, with intelligence and with vehemence. i believe that this report is also inspired by this spirit. i would also like to take this opportunity to comment on what mrs grabowska has said. i don't think cars are something that should be predominantly for men. i think it's the other way around. if you believe the statistics, women drive more cautiously, more carefully, more safely. so you drive smarter, and i think that's why it was good that this report was written by a woman. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of road transport. it is one of the greatest risks to human life in europe. the road traffic in particular accounts for a large number of deaths and injuries each year. it is therefore important that the european legislator should strive to reduce these things. so it's imperative that we try to make vehicles literally smarter so that these things can be limited in the future. i think this report is pointing in the right direction. but the prerequisite for this is - and i agree with mr rack - that these are systems for the masses, that they are systems that work in general and that do not remain the privilege of a small class. i think that is what this report says very clearly. so i think it's good that we're deciding today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you mentioned first that it is very pleasing that minister jean-pierre jouyet is here, and indeed it is very pleasing. would you also ask the future presidencies to follow the example of minister jouyet and be present in parliament as from monday?
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i am not going to go into detail. i can only agree with the main points made by our rapporteur, mrs haug. i think the same is true of the budget available for transport. the share of transport in the budget has undoubtedly increased. but of course, this is primarily due to the increases in galileo. the reason for this is a never-ending story and has something to do with industrial policies in europe. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. but above all, we need more money for research and new transport strategies to finally achieve climate-friendly mobility. and the transeuropean networks need very strict monitoring, because there is a lot of money to be spent here.
i have to say, madam president, i would first like to apologise to my colleague, mr robert sturdy, who was unfortunately detained and cannot be here in the chamber. i would like to point out that both the united states and europe - at least most of the member states - are nato partners. it's a conflict between friendly groups. i would also like to point out that in 1992 an agreement was concluded between the united states and the european community on large civil aircraft. it actually worked quite well until the us actually deviated from that agreement in 2004 by this call from the wto panel. we know that in this particular market for large commercial as well as military aircraft, of course, state aid is common to a certain extent. nevertheless, it is important that these state aids are subject to very strict controls and conditions. the european community has so far been very strict about this, and eads airbus has also repaid most of this aid, or more than what was given by the public authorities. we've been documenting this very closely. in contrast, the us has so far remained in debt to this documentation and it is not clear to what extent boeing has complied with these obligations. i would like to say that we are of course in favour of free trade as the european community, but this resolution should not end up with us calling for anti-american slogans. it is important that we want to see fair treatment between the two partners, and i expect the wto panel to decide on that. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. human rights are indivisible. ethnicity cannot be a reason for discrimination, nor can race, gender, religion, sexual preference and the like. this is a major achievement of our european legal community. however, it is also a matter of course that our european legal community takes equality before the law seriously, which means that we have common laws on social assistance, education, the labour market and the fight against crime, and we apply them without discrimination. identification is a prerequisite for many of these policies. the commissioner has rightly referred to this legal aspect of the so-called roma problem. he also said that he would not act on the press' call, but would ask the italian government for clarification. that's the way to do it. besides the legal side, there's the human side. many roma, and many children in turn, live in abject poverty, are not integrated, and have little or no opportunities in our society. this is where help is needed. in my home town of graz, we have had an intense discussion for years about roma begging and a discussion with roma about how to get out of this difficult situation or at least make the best of it. one solution is that we, the citizens of graz, finance jobs in slovakia, in the countries of origin of these roma, and in this way we succeed in taking at least a great many children away from begging, from the streets. we must do more, we will do more! there is one final problem with the roma area. this concerns us. there is a problem of politics. with this subject, with these people and their suffering, you can make politics, populist politics on the ground and - as our debate here today shows - unfortunately also european populism.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. sometimes - not often - the major groups in this house feel guilty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is the case today. otherwise the public might be interested in why a report that was rejected in committee is being put to the vote in this house. and the public might be interested to know why a rapporteur on behalf of the committee is presenting a report which does not contain what he is presenting, and which was not rejected by a vote - as richard corbett said - but by a majority of the committee, and for good reasons. the public might be interested in you bringing this motion to the plenary in breach of the rules of procedure, not to vote on this motion but to do something quite different. i have been a member of parliament since 1990. during that time i have come to know a consensus as regards parliamentary culture, namely that the majority of a parliament does not use its vote, its weight, to gain power and privileges in the rules of procedure at the expense of other political groups. you did that here. you broke that taboo! it's not sincere what's being said here. the major groups want nothing more than to avoid the formation of smaller groups and to put pressure on members from all the countries of the union to join their groups in order to prevent the splitting of incoherent parts of their own group. they want to tailor these rules to their own tastes and to their own needs. in doing so, they are ignoring another taboo, namely that non-existent factions, such as the ind/dem, can be eliminated by formal tricks. that is not acceptable in a democracy! it's in the tradition, richard corbett. i've looked at the last two years, and we'll talk about it before the election. for two years now the major groups in this house have been introducing a series of amendments to the rules of procedure, all of which have the same consequence: the strengthening of the power of the major groups, the reduction of diversity, the reduction of the rights of individual members, the reduction of the rights of smaller groups. if this is the way to make parliament popular, to respond to the crisis of confidence of the citizens and to prepare for the election campaign next year, then you will find us there as very vocal opponents and supporters of a democratic parliament!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, we should not give additional financial support to members and delegates who are opposed to democracy at european level.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. "let's dare a bold democracy" was the headline in the frankfurt general sunday newspaper two weeks ago about a large article i wrote there. and it was just social democratic circles that came to me and said: exactly! not just because it's an alliteration of the great willy brandt. so what are you doing here now, richard and jo? you're turning this thing the wrong way round, and you know what you're doing! i remember very well the last time we discussed the lifting of the barriers to entry for political groups. i remember jo when he was a democrat. i'd like him to think about whose business he's taking care of. you're the destroyers of democracy. you're taking care of the business of the straches, the haiders, the left-wingers of a clipping where lafontaine still looks almost like a middle-of-the-road politician. shame on you, go inside, take back this proposal for europe. you are not the anti-europeans!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the queries represent the spectrum of information that citizens expect from the eu. since commissioner wallström is here today, i would also ask her to have these questions worked out and perhaps to have a brochure prepared where the question and answer result will also be made available to the citizens of europe so that they can also read on the internet how the questions put to the commission and the council by members of parliament here in parliament are answered. it would be great for journalists and for the citizens of europe if this could be done before the elections.
in writing. − the population is food insecure, thanks to bse, meat scandals and so on, where the eu has not always made a good impression. if the bavarian authorities were indeed not informed for years about the activities of italian criminals with disgusting melted cheese that were exposed and if cooperation did not work in the recent wine scandal, this shows serious weaknesses in the european reporting system that must be eliminated immediately. the current food crisis also highlights the importance of agricultural self-sufficiency for a country. we must therefore give greater support to our local smallholders and, above all, to organic farmers. the necessary increase in agricultural production must not be used as a pretext to open the back door to genetic engineering throughout the eu. if the public rejects genetically modified food, the eu must support that attitude and not follow the interests of a few large corporations.
in writing. - to date, switzerland and liechtenstein have enjoyed a privileged partnership with the eu through bilateral treaties, which would certainly be recommended to many other states in order to preserve their sovereignty and specificities. it is not in the eu's interest that liechtenstein's participation in the schengen programme has been made conditional on agreements on the taxation of savings. this is reminiscent of the schengen-dublin threat, which was intended to bring the swiss people to their senses. it cannot be that millions of dollars in subsidies and illusory promises are used to lure new members or to tie countries closer to the eu in order to deprive them of the opportunity to pursue their own path outside the eu.
in writing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the limitation of the number and content of questions is more in line with the rules of procedure of a court than with the rules of procedure of a democratically legitimized institution and must therefore be rejected in the strongest possible terms. i therefore cannot but vote against the report.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by congratulating the three rapporteurs on their excellent work. i would ask you to forgive me for focusing on mr la russa's report on the natural gas directive. there was very good cooperation between him as reporter and the various shadow reporters. the question of unbundling, the separation of the grid from the gas supply, has already been discussed. that is not one of the most essential or central questions. i am satisfied with the compromise we have found, even if it is very strict, because on the one hand it does allow for a possibility of not making a complete separation, but under very strict conditions, and on the other hand the commission has a relatively large margin of manoeuvre, through an audit clause, to ensure that competition is established and that the conditions of competition are actually respected. of course, you have to think a little bit longer term. in this respect we will certainly agree with the fundamental considerations of mr manders in the sense that we will see if a common european infrastructure can be found. but this is a possible future variant, which we cannot go into in detail at the moment. the important thing is that we also have exceptions, exceptions for those important investments where a lot of capital is put into the hands and where we cannot say today whether this will really lead to a solution, as for example with nabucco. we must also be flexible in this respect. such investments are long-term. we do not know exactly when we can conclude the contract. this is very important. i would like to see the majority of this house agreeing to our motions tomorrow. otherwise we will agree to the report as it has been voted on in the areas of transparency, consumer friendliness, energy and poverty. if i look at what the commission and the president of the commission have said recently on this subject, it would be important that we have a clear commitment here, firstly to provide comprehensible information for consumers - this is not the case everywhere - secondly to set up a contact point for consumers so that they can also inform themselves accordingly, thirdly to an independent complaints body because there are always complaints - each of us knows cases where he is not affected himself, which is also very important - and fourthly to care for vulnerable customers, especially when it comes to pensioners, the disabled and others. these are real concerns, especially in the face of rising energy prices. i do not understand why this has not been adopted in the committee, unfortunately, in the natural gas sector, but why it has been repeatedly said here by the conservatives and, most recently, by commission president barroso: we must try to help consumers, and in particular those in need of protection. whether it is social tariffs or other options, i will not go into that. this is also a matter of state. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. but the european commission and this parliament should be leading the way, pointing out that this is possible and probably also sensible, in order to protect social interests at these high energy prices.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has been very active in this field. energy is the means for the future. it is therefore important that we also look at the long-term prospects for europe's energy supply. it is particularly important that we do not exclude longterm contracts but also take into account longterm contracts for a stable energy supply for europe. we should also consider the conditions for funding the transeuropean networks. if we promote, if we give incentives, on the other hand we can also demand that unbundling, also ownership unbundling could be the basis for conditions of support. there are many options here that will allow us to secure the markets in the future. the debate on nuclear power stations is also an important point - and this has already been discussed today. it is high time that the european commission took action here, that an agency or a regulator was set up to deal with the safety and security of nuclear power stations. this regulator should also have the right to take dangerous nuclear power plants off the grid. the french agency could be a model. france has indeed succeeded in setting up an independent regulator in an exemplary manner. it would be good if this french regulator also had a say in the other regulators in the other 26 countries. it would strengthen national regulators and ensure safety and health in europe. we all have a responsibility. we must think in the long term strategy how we can protect the citizens of europe in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely important that we ensure that gas supplies are placed in a competitive environment, and renewable energy is playing a major role in this, while natural gas is of course a competitor to renewable energy. i believe that competition is the opportunity to move prices in the right direction and that by taking additional efficiency measures we can achieve a corresponding reduction in prices. the correct distribution of energy supplies in europe will play an increasingly important role in the future, and our small and mediumsized enterprises in particular will have an important role to play in energy efficiency, because of course the renovation of buildings, the renovation of old houses plays an important role and a corresponding competitive situation in the supply of gas will also be felt in households.
i have to say, madam president, since china announced last year at the latest that it was going to put $3 billion, just $3 billion, of its fund reserves into private equity, sovereign wealth funds have been in the spotlight. the assets under management in sovereign wealth funds are now well over $3 trillion, twice as much as those in hedge funds, reason enough to start looking at this now. so far, only a transparent norwegian system with good governance is known. state funds, like private equity, can conceal the identity of the employer. sovereign wealth funds can invest strategically and grow rapidly. the commission has already done so. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to take measures to ensure that the conditions of employment of workers are not affected by the transfer of undertakings. this requires transparency and timely information. last but not least, the imf, the us treasury and the german chancellor are calling for increased control and regulation. yes, we should do something!
i would like to interrupt the question that has just been asked. there seems to be a classic case of ethnic discrimination within the european union now, namely in italy, where people are criminalised because of their ethnicity. how does the council view this approach? does he think that action against the italian government is appropriate?
minister! we have had a directive on money laundering for some time in the european union, which is a deliberate attempt to extract the proceeds of illegal activities, particularly drug trafficking and similar criminal activities. does the decision you are referring to have any competitive effect on this directive? the directive and the experience gained there are perhaps the better way to go compared with what you have just said. could we envisage taking more stringent or legally binding measures?
minister! the parents of the abducted madeleine mccain were here in strasbourg at the last plenary session and they lobbied in parliament for an attempt to develop european-style actions from within parliament to ensure that greater attention is paid to the protection against child abduction and the protection of abducted children in the framework of the activities of the european union. the council is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the shift from road to rail is a slogan we all like to talk about. however, many of the conditions for the implementation of this slogan have yet to be created. this is particularly true of rail, which is a particularly environmentally friendly mode of transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal market in transport is in fact achieved. we have achieved a good result after long and detailed negotiations between parliament and the council. we should not therefore be looking at it in a negative light, but should actually adopt it tomorrow by a large majority. however, i think there are some concerns, particularly in the area of agencies. the experience we have had in europe with agencies so far has been, to put it mildly, suboptimal. we often started by not putting any or too little budget into the start-up of agencies. then there were problems and you had to do a constant duplication. and we had and we have the problem that very often we have built in no or too little political controls and that the agencies have then developed a life of their own, free of any political control and responsibility. we can only hope, and you, commissioner, must make sure that this time everything will be different. but let us be vigilant, especially in the matter of agencies.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. in times like these, when we talk about moving from road to rail, but when we have a road-cost policy which is unlikely to make it happen, it is good that there are also reports which strengthen a means of transport which is important to us, namely rail, which strengthens it in such a way that in the future it will have the same rights and opportunities as the lorry in many areas. interoperability is working, systems are being harmonised and security is being improved. that's why they're both very good reports. i would like to congratulate mr costa on the fact that another step has been taken to strengthen the railways at european level.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to congratulate you on this balanced report. in the present age of the internet, it is particularly important to ensure greater price transparency in air tickets, to prevent misunderstandings and to ensure a level playing field. it is only in this way that a minimum level of quality can be maintained and, from the point of view of consumer protection, that people with little or no experience in booking travel can be protected from attractive offers. this is the first time that the commission has been asked to do so. the second important point in the report is the need for member states to ensure that community social legislation is applied to airline employees and that national social legislation is applied to airline employees when they are, as it were, hired out with their crew to cover peak seasons or in the event of a breakdown by airlines based in other countries. the commission has also taken the initiative of introducing a new system of certification of air carriers, which will be based on the same principles as the one used in the previous programme.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to take up a subject which almost all the members have raised, namely greater transparency in pricing, and i would like to stress a point which mr simpson has made quite rightly. anyone who has ever booked a flight online - and many of us do - knows that there are not only problems with clarity and transparency of prices, but there are also problems if you do not fill in any details correctly in the booking. in this case, everything bounces back, and you end up with a lot more insurance than you really wanted, and not a cheap ticket, but one where surcharges and insurance are causing a very large overpricing. the airlines themselves should not impose this practice, and the commission, and we in parliament, should monitor this practice. only then can we really organise a sensible, customer-friendly system for the citizens.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the commission presented a green paper on a new culture of urban mobility last autumn and is planning to present an action plan with concrete measures in this area in the coming months. the european parliament, as the co-legislator of future measures and as the budgetary authority, has committed itself to and felt called upon to express its views on this green paper in good time. we have approached this matter with confidence and consideration. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. the committee on transport has reached a very broad consensus on this subject. i want to address a few important questions, and i don't want to take too long. one of the key issues that has rightly been the subject of much attention by many of our colleagues has been the question of subsidiarity. who should be involved in this issue? is this even a european issue? shouldn't the decisions stay like the proverbial church in the village and the like. our answer to this question: we believe that the presentation of the green paper and the subsequent action plan will not change the existing system of competences in europe, but that all the competent authorities, the european union, the member states, the regional and local authorities, should use their competences and that is the key coordinate reasonably. in this sense we want an integrated overall approach and we want to see urban decisions on what is actually right and important for the individual municipalities. a second theme: transport must respond to the needs of people. we should not confuse the european citizens in the european internal transport market. if there is a green zone in one city and a green zone in another, it is not to start a new world for the citizen just because he crosses a municipal boundary. we expect european harmonization here, we expect europe to set the standard for best practice. a third issue concerns accompanying measures. we have held a hearing and the mayors have complained to us that they often receive european directives and then are left in the dust by the member states when they implement them, or more precisely, are left without the funds to implement these european measures. we want to make special consideration for disabled road users a matter of concern. this is true from my point of view - and i repeat this again and again - for men and women with small children. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the community. we want to send signals to industry and to industry in time to develop better logistics and new technologies. and we want to raise awareness among people. they themselves should help us to achieve a healthy environment through the transport system. mr cramer will be cycling, mr marinescu will be taking a new express train in his country, mr costa will be coming by vaporetto, vice-president tajani will be taking a scooter in rome and i like to walk in my home town. if we do all of this, we actually achieve a small, but not insignificant, improvement. i would like to conclude by thanking the two commissioners who have been very active on this subject, vice-president jacques barrot and vice-president antonio tajani, who is now in charge. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs who worked on this text and the colleagues who contributed to a good result in the committee. i thank the staff in the committee, in the group and in my own office for the work they have done and hope that it will produce a further good result.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have helped to make this evening a very lively debate, with its corners and edges. we have seen in these forty or fifty minutes the reality of the last few months reflected in the committee on transport and tourism. there too, opinions were somewhat divided. we had more than 350 amendments for our vote. we have succeeded in reducing these 350 amendments to a text which is still relatively consistent, and which has then won a very large majority in the committee, namely 27 votes to two. i would be glad if we could achieve a similar result in the vote tomorrow and i would be committed to that. there was a group in the transport committee that was not satisfied with the result. we have heard that very clearly again today. and we have also heard the call for a further change to be made tomorrow. i would be very grateful to the honourable members if, in the spirit of the cooperation we had in the committee on transport, we could concentrate on actually getting through to the plenary tomorrow what we worked out in the committee then. i would ask you to look at some of the recommendations that the rapporteur has noted in tomorrow's voting list. i am also looking forward to further work on this subject and i wish the commission and the vice-president every success in the action plan and in the further work on this subject!
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the debate we are having today was triggered by a report on german television, wdr, which showed me that the safety of infants and young children on airplanes with the seat belts currently provided - as they are usually seen - is not guaranteed. crash tests have shown that these belts, which are currently used by the majority of european airlines, can even endanger a child and cause serious injury. at a time when we are discussing the eu-ops, the technical safety regulations, which will soon come into force, i was concerned, and that is why i also showed my colleagues in the committee on transport the corresponding video, that this safety problem will be solved. i think it is a very important requirement that crash tests which have been carried out and which have shown that a child is not protected by these belts in the event of a take-off failure or a rapid landing be taken seriously and that a solution be found immediately. it seems more than urgent. the current system, as it is designed, will continue to allow these belts and does not take into account the fact that even in a car which is actually moving much slower, much more sophisticated safety measures are being taken for children, at least in almost all countries in europe. although emergency landings or take-off failures are fortunately very, very rare, and we should be very happy about this, and this is also due to technical regulations, this danger to infants and young children cannot be taken lightly. after seeing this crash test, you're convinced that this can't work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left behind. we want to find a good solution to this problem together. now, some safety experts have objected that no known case of such a belt being used has ever been reported. unfortunately, there is a macabre backdrop here. if infants or children do not have their own seat, they are not included in the statistics. the facts behind this have been known for years. the german ministry of transport has already drawn attention to this and has also said that it does not want to fall behind its safety level. the german airline association, however, has called the danger-showings populist. i have to be honest, i call that cynicism, and it qualifies by itself. on this basis, some very important questions arise: what authority has approved this loop belt, this extra belt for infants? on what basis, on what technical standards is this based? there is a licence, i am aware, for the extension belts if someone is very lively, but there is none, as far as i know, for the extension belts for children. holding infants in the lap, as is also possible with some airlines, is a very old practice. it was first notified in the 1920s when planes were still taking off at about 40 miles an hour. we should not and cannot wait that long. i think that this decision cannot be left to the member states, because we have very strong competition in the aviation sector, and there is of course the danger that the best safety system cannot be created because of this competitive pressure. we need a european solution. i ask you, when will they be? is there any chance of doing this this year, and is there any chance of finding a sensible solution in the interim? a final sentence: in the liquid on planes, millions have been invested without much debate. you have to invest in the safety of your children. it is necessary. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have taken the opportunity to respond to your reply, commissioner, and i would therefore like to ask you again. the timely implementation strategy is the key, and i would also very much like a solution for the transitional period. and you know why? what is now in the eu ops is interpreted as meaning that all those airlines which already offer child seats today will be forced to go back to the seat belt and use it. that needs to be clarified. that's how it's interpreted. i know this because i've been asking around and asking people to call airlines and ask how the child is being secured. that's the information. this is important! i want to make this clear. i really do. second point: there are child seats on the market today that fit into conventional airplane seats, and there are also airbags for the front passenger that are relatively cheap, that fit in anywhere and then can be used, for example. it is clear that one seat here is occupied by a child, so to speak. but i'll tell you something: you already pay as a mother when you take the child in your arms. i can show you the bills. i want those who already have a better solution to use it. and i'm asking you to answer me whether or not that's the case.
i have to say, madam president, i am not speaking now because i have not spoken long enough, but because i believe that this is an important subject on which the right questions have been asked by my colleagues. we expect the commission to respond as quickly as possible and then to take appropriate action. i would like to take up one point that has also been raised: the question of costs. i am basically assuming - although i do not know whether my group fully supports me - that security is a public task which must therefore be decided on and financed at the public level. we have a lot of seat belts on airplanes today that are not being used and that are not being billed to anyone individually. we should therefore, in the interests of the safety of our young citizens - and the commissioner has made this point quite deliberately - decide that something should be done, that it should be done quickly and that it should not be short of funds.
in writing. i am very pleased that the strategic environmental audit directive (sea directive) has been adopted. if environmental impact assessment procedures are carried out at the initial stage of a project's development, adverse effects can be avoided at the outset and do not have to be contained or combated until later. the sup procedure promises to take environmental and health aspects into account even more intensively in project decisions in the future. and sustainable development must always include environmental impacts in planning from the first to the last step, alongside economic and social aspects.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i hope very much that the main messages of this debate will reach the citizens of europe. the first main message of this debate is for me that the ecb and the euro are not the cause of the worries and problems we have, but part of the solution. the second main message is that the euro benefits and protects. it benefits the citizens of the whole european union, not just the eurozone, the political project of the european union and the growth and employment policy of the european union. the euro is the most successful response to globalisation, alongside the single market. the euro and the european central bank do not make us independent of global influences, but they do make us more responsive to them. i would therefore like to thank the european central bank for its policy of calm and discretion, because in times of loss of confidence it is undoubtedly one of the winners of confidence. but i would also like to say to all the heads of state and government on this occasion: no more of the stability and growth pact, no more of the european central bank! when you have internal problems and you don't do your homework, it's too easy to blame other people. and that is why we must do everything we can to raise awareness and to close the information gap. there is no general awareness of the relationship between inflation, interest rates and price stability. i thank mr juncker for pointing out that indirect taxes should not be increased but reduced where possible. we must communicate that the euro is not to blame for the rising energy and commodity prices. i would also like to thank the cooperation between the european central bank, the commission and the financial services industry for helping to launch sepa, the crossborder payments area, successfully. let us use the sensitivity, the legitimate concerns and fears of the people to engage with them, to give answers and to enlighten them, and let us not just give praise!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as you all know, we have had an eu regulation on the harmonisation of european social systems since 2004, but unfortunately no implementing regulation. with the decision of the european parliament we finally have implementing provisions, that is to say, we have an instrument which promotes mobility in the european union without losing social security. the establishment of liaison offices also enables us to provide practical assistance to those working across borders, such as answering questions about how and where to apply for a pension. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also wanted to say that i voted for this report because a new regulation replaces the old one and so social security systems can be better coordinated than before by means of the new regulation, because these laws are being simplified and modified and we are thus achieving what we want in the context of the lambert report, namely to make a further contribution to increasing mobility in the european union and to the possibility of taking social benefits with you when you work across borders. this is a contribution to social security in the european union.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report by paolo costa on the amendment of directive 2004/49/ec on railway safety in the community. the safety of european railways can only be guaranteed by common measures and objectives, which is why i very much welcome the railway package. a key aspect is the approval procedure for locomotives, where the requirements of the competent authorities are, according to manufacturers and railway undertakings, hardly justified from a technical point of view. the directives on the interoperability of the rail system also need to be consolidated and merged. the commission has also proposed that the new legislation should be amended to include a new provision on the liability for vehicle maintenance. the next step is therefore to establish a binding system of rules for maintenance by the commission.
in writing. - i vote in favour of the report by paolo costa on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 881/2004 establishing a european railway agency. the improvement of the technical regulatory framework for railways in the context of the third railway package is a necessary and welcome development, which also includes a strengthening of the european railway agency. the agency, as a central body, must ensure a uniform approach throughout europe. the development of the european railway transport management system is particularly important in this respect, and it is essential to ensure its interoperability and compatibility. the creation of ec testing procedures is a suitable means for this, the effectiveness of which requires a functioning and strong european railway agency. i therefore support the further development of the agency as proposed by the rapporteur.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport services are not subject to restrictions. the strengthening and improvement of existing legislation is to be encouraged, particularly the transparency of air ticket prices. passengers have the right to a full breakdown of the flight price. the new regulation will make prices more transparent and more comprehensible. the european union is thus countering false offers of attraction and creating a level playing field based on quality, not on seemingly cheap offers, especially on the internet. the new regulation also improves the enforcement of social legislation. this means that workers are better protected and have more uniform working conditions. the common rules safeguard the rights of consumers and employees and guarantee the necessary transparency and information in community air transport services.
in writing. − people's trust in the eu is strongly dependent, among other things, on their confidence in europe's social stability. and that is where a lot has changed in recent years and decades: in reality, thanks to parttime work and new working conditions (mac jobs), european workers often do not get much more out of life than some unemployed people. the downside of unchecked economic growth and continuous austerity in social systems is increased poverty and social exclusion. in the european union, one of the richest parts of the world, 16% lived below the poverty line in 2005. with the rising prices of oil and food, more people are now living below or near the poverty line. the eu must urgently tackle poverty among its own people and social systems must be available to europeans first.
in writing. - i do not think there is any plausible reason for raising the minimum number of meps required to form a political group. the arguments put forward by the rapporteur in the meeting are void on closer examination, in particular his reference to the allegedly higher thresholds for the formation of a political group in the parliaments of the member states. the european parliament is not a political body, but a political body, and it is not a political body, but a political body. the second chambers are usually sent by the länder or regions and are therefore not suitable for comparison. the average value used by the directly elected national chambers to form a political group is almost identical to the threshold for the european parliament. the real reason for raising the key figure for the formation of political groups is obviously something else. the rapporteur in the committee pointed out the negative circumstances of the formation of the identity, tradition and sovereignty group (its) and stressed that this should be prevented in the future. i have voted against the report because of this attack on democracy and freedom of expression and on the equality of meps as laid down in the rules of procedure of this parliament and in the treaty.
in writing. − the eu's plan to increase the share of biofuels has unfortunately had a very rapid negative impact. monocultures, deforestation of rainforests and competition for feed and food production, which have contributed to the current food crisis, seem to have caused eu ministers to rethink their approach and to shake the fixed target of increasing the share of renewable energy in transport to 10% by 2020. while it is welcome that biofuels should no longer be produced from food and that second-generation biofuels should be produced from waste, this should not lead to a reduction in the eu's efforts in the field of renewable energy. the dramatic oil price changes make it more important than ever to promote renewable energy. the billions spent on the problematic nuclear power generation should be put into renewable energy.
in writing. - i support the report by mr rack on a new culture of mobility in the city. the draft green paper report is an important contribution to the subject of urbanity. the economic development of a city and its accessibility require better mobility, but this must not come at the expense of the population and the environment. the draft therefore needs to take greater account of the social aspects and of employment policy. it must also be borne in mind that a uniform pan-european solution will not be possible because of the diversity of the countries and that the principle of subsidiarity must therefore be strictly respected. i also think that in those countries where liberalization has already taken place, an evaluation of the effects of liberalization on workers should be carried out. i also call for a certification system for retrofit systems for particulate filters for cars, trucks and off-road vehicles. the green paper, while largely presenting the problems facing urban mobility today and presenting new and innovative solutions, does not cover all the necessary aspects and should therefore only be the beginning of the discussion.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when president sarkozy spoke out after the unrest in tibet, i had great respect for france in its role as protector of human rights. since then, the situation has worsened tremendously, with more people locked up than ever before. the situation in tibet has never been so tense. media censorship has never been so rigid as it is now. and the president's reaction, in my view, is a slap in the face to anyone who stands up for human rights. we are disappointing the hopes of all those in china who hope that our press will help them to bring democracy to china.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank mr brok for his willingness to cooperate very well. the message is relatively clear: there is no break in enlargement, but there is a need for all of us to prepare even better - those of us in the european union and those who want to join the european union. better preparation also means institutional reforms, consolidation of the european union. and better preparation means, of course, that the enlargement countries will also accept the copenhagen criteria, which will be implemented and enforced and not just in legislation. i am also very grateful to mr brok for having taken up our idea of the black sea union with mr jan marinus wiersma, albeit perhaps in a more cautious form. but we must send clear signals to ukraine and to the other countries in the black sea region which are represented in the neighbourhood policy. but to help these countries, it is also important to involve turkey and russia in this cooperation. i appreciate the french presidency's ideas on the mediterranean union, but we must not leave the black sea region out of the picture. we must also show our support there and the european union must make appropriate offers of cooperation. the commission has already made a number of proposals in its report on the balkans. he has made it clear today: voluntary offerings. no one should get the message from here: wait for your reforms, it's time enough. no, the reforms must be advanced, both in croatia and, of course, in the other countries. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states, and has also been involved in the preparation of the council's annual report on the implementation of the reform of the common agricultural policy. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european parliament has shown very clearly in the brok report that it has learned the lessons of the last great enlargement with 12 member states and that it has been able to list the problems that have resulted from it on the one hand, but on the other hand it has been able to highlight all the advantages that enlargement has brought us, the new member states and the old ones. but the important thing is to draw the consequences, and this has been done, particularly in two areas that are important to me. firstly, we will have to consider the capacity of the european union to absorb future enlargements. and secondly, the conditions in the candidate countries must actually be met before admission. when we are discussing the european union's ability to host, i am concerned about a number of points, such as the fact that new members must not jeopardise the union's project. the dynamics of development, the objectives of the union must not be distorted, but must be strengthened by the new approach. the institutional framework in the union must be established and safeguarded in advance. we also need a treaty like lisbon or an adequate treaty. and enlargement must be affordable for the european union, otherwise we are questioning the union project. we want to see a positive development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to return to the subject of cars. at the time, when the figure was set at 120 grams, there were a number of questions about the extent to which this 120 gram figure should be assessed on average in the fleet, in the whole group and in similar measurements. are all these questions settled or can they be settled in time for industry to be able to react effectively within the short time limits if necessary?
i wonder if it would be worth considering incentives to take old cars off the market, because we have the highest consumption and co2 emissions. can you imagine thinking of an incentive mechanism here?
the commission has been right to point out the problem and to point out that solutions cannot be found, in particular because the unanimity principle means that the member states do not act. sometimes a rough chunk needs a rough wedge. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, we have a relatively large number of important votes today. in view of this, it is really not necessary for mr cohn-bendit to accompany and disturb this vote with his comments and his talks.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to say on behalf of the delegation of the austrian people's party that we are all in favour of taking all measures to improve and make reasonable the difficult situation of the roma in italy, but also elsewhere. but we believe that in the present situation, where we do not have all the facts, we should not adopt a resolution because we are anticipating the facts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president of the council! i fully support your position. i think you are the right president of the council at a very sensitive time, with the necessary sensitivity to the concerns of the people, the determination to lead and to bring together. you have not been too hasty in answering the questions, but have spoken to the issues by name. they're not running. they're turning themselves in. i would like to emphasize your clear commitment to parliamentary democracy. this commitment is particularly important at this time because we have seen in several member states - as in my home country, austria - the playing out of direct democracy and parliamentary democracy and thus the disempowerment of parliaments of parliamentary democracy in european affairs. let us stand firmly together for parliamentary democracy and against its dismantling! (applause from the centre) it is also important to me that you have once clearly addressed the cowardice, one might say the double standards of many governments and members of governments in their european co-responsibility, because this double standard is one of the main causes of the loss of confidence and of the mutual blame which we must put an end to. we don't ask for more courage from everyone, but we do ask for sincerity and character. i'd like to make three more things. one is your position on the contract. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am convinced that we will only reach an agreement with ireland once all 26 member states have ratified it. but let us not leave croatia alone either! i appreciate you wanting to open all the chapters by the end of the year. we also need a timetable for macedonia. i would ask you to include the small business act in your december summit as part of a council decision, because the main responsibilities are with the member states. we need a legally binding and not yet another public political statement.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we assume from the agenda that the debate on georgia will take place today, then we have no particular wish either. however, if delays cause the sitting to be longer and this debate on georgia cannot take place until tomorrow, we would ask that the debate on the social package be postponed until the second part-session in september, because i believe it is impossible to have both the debate on the social package and the debate on georgia in one morning. i just wanted to announce it now.
i have to say, madam president, on 14 august 2008, the departure time of a ryanair flight from austria to england was postponed to the next day. the company then guaranteed reimbursement of hotel and transfer costs and distributed a leaflet, as required by regulation no 261/2004, which indicated the rights of passengers in the case in question. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the agreement between ams and ryanair. the refusal to pay is clearly contrary to regulation 261/2004, which regulates the provision of support services to passengers throughout the eu. air passengers in europe have a right to compensation in the event of delay, especially if the flight is postponed to the next day, which is regulated by law. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 20 june 2010 and that the agreement was signed on 1 july 2010. these things are happening more and more often now, and at the expense of european passengers. it is time for the european commission to act.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. for the past few days, there have been ads with the text "lenin - stalin" "putin" and the question "give in?" now this is a bit simple, because it was in lenin's time, when south ossetia came to georgia, with about 18,000 dead and about 50,000 displaced. abkhazia came to georgia during stalin's time. here one should stick to the truth and consider all sides. the former first president of georgia, swiad gamsachurdia, who is now back in fashion, said: "the ossetian people are a mess that we have to turn out through the roki tunnel". you should also see this side of georgian nationalism. but none of this - i say this very clearly, and martin schulz has said it on several occasions - none of this justifies the russian intervention, which has been going on for years. it is an expression of imperialist behaviour, and we have seen time and again how russia has exploited the existing minority conflicts accordingly. we have repeatedly faced threats and boycotts which we cannot accept. i do not mean to deny the errors of either the west or saakashvili. but russia has repeatedly tried to exploit internal conflicts with its neighbours. nor is the recognition of kosovo a justification for this action. the european union has always tried to find a multilateral international solution. russia didn't try that. the european union has always clearly and unequivocally supported the serb minority in kosovo and will continue to do so. what did russia do? it has at least watched the expulsion of georgians from south ossetia and abkhazia, and i hope that mr kouchner is right when he says that there will be a different policy now. the european union's policy must now clearly and explicitly focus on supporting and supporting our neighbours. we have been proposing a black sea union for some time. whatever you call this construction, it is clear that the current neighbourhood policy needs to be strengthened and reinforced and that we need to invite everyone in the region, from turkey to kazakhstan, who has an interest in the integrity and stability of this region. if russia is prepared to return to a policy of cooperation and respect for its neighbours, russia is also invited to join us. russia is feeling particularly strong right now because of the high energy prices. but we all know that this is not a sound economic base that russia has, and that russia has much to gain from partnership and cooperation with europe. we must focus on providing clear support to our neighbours. in this sense, mr president-in-office, i can say that the conclusions you have reached are good conclusions and form a good basis because they clearly express what is realistic and what we can stand for. i hope that we can find in this parliament a clear consensual solution similar to that of the council, so that we can speak with one voice in the european union. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the resolution is the best since the armistice agreement and contains many of the demands that elmar brok and i made on behalf of the european people's party after our trip. but that's not enough. the european union is still being challenged, and our credibility is also at stake. the resolution must be followed by jointly determined action, as commissioner ferrero-waldner has made encouragingly clear today. we must implement this resolution to the letter, just as we are demanding that russia implement the six-point plan to the letter. secondly, we have seen in the last few weeks how important the european union can be, but also where our weaknesses lie and what we have to do or avoid in ourselves. we can be mediators, but to be mediators requires a common eu foreign policy, a proactive foreign, security and defence policy. we have also seen in recent weeks that there is a lack of unity and a lack of political will to be united, that there is still no common determination, that we are weakened by the absence of the lisbon treaty. the reconstruction alone is not enough. we must invest in the independence of these states, we must strip nationalism of its soil. the eu's commitment is more important than the nato perspective. commissioner, you have so beautifully demonstrated that russia policy needs to be reassessed. we can't go on like this. we must invest in economic, democratic, social and educational stability. it's not just about the money. and we need to expand the neighbourhood policy and put concrete projects on the table, as you announced today. we're waiting for you!
the author, acting on behalf of the author, shall deliver the opinion of the legal committee. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on behalf of the chairman of the legal affairs committee, mr gargani, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report and for the good cooperation. i would like to mention three points in particular: firstly, consumer friendliness, secondly, the principle of subsidiarity and thirdly, relevance. we believe that it is much more consumer-friendly not to include motor insurance as a compulsory part of motor liability. we do not need forced bundling or integration of products, which would make insurance more expensive and restrict the consumer's freedom of choice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal costs of the car are covered by the liability of the motor vehicle. i would remind you that we are dealing with a phenomenon of limited numerical relevance. only about 1% of road accidents within the eu are cross-border. these are almost exclusively settled out of court. i congratulate you on your report.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. thank you very much for your cooperation and for your report. i'm in this for four points. firstly, we must stress that tax fraud cannot be tackled in isolation and that a coordinated approach is needed both between the member states and with third countries. secondly, we welcome the planned pilot projects to combat carousel fraud, but we would point out that the framework conditions, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, must not deteriorate. thirdly, we expressly support the amendment proposed by the commission to the vat directive and the regulation on the cooperation of the administrative authorities in this field. fourthly, i am glad that the general abolition of banking secrecy has not found a majority in all committees and has been decisively rejected by a large majority.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i rise to speak for two reasons: firstly, because this subject - as mr langen has already said - has been on the agenda for a long time and one really wonders why there is no progress, particularly in the area of vat evasion. secondly, because it is unacceptable, in the name of the vast majority of europeans, that we should be talking about tax evasion and fraud in such a pharismatic way and not even discuss the problems here in the house. this european parliament, represented by many european members, is a den of fraud. i am not saying that the commission is not aware of the problems. whether it is mr chichester, mr purvis or liberal members, this is scandalous! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i call on olaf and, in particular, on the administration of parliament and the political groups to make a clear statement here. it's a mess what they're trying to cover up here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it is long overdue for a european response to the constantly recurring waves of inflation and rising poverty. the new draft of a pan-european social package is a start and, fortunately, a step in the right direction. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the healthcare sector. in fact, for example, holidaymakers are often shamelessly exploited with horrific medical bills that are not reimbursed or only partially reimbursed on return. conversely, millions of euros are owed between the individual member states. it is not enough to claim that we are achieving a better balance between work and family life. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic crisis. it is not acceptable that public contracts must be awarded on an eu-wide basis and then the payment of the minimum wage linked to the award is annulled by the ecj as being incompatible with the posting of workers and services directive. the eu is showing its true face as a purely economic community, feeding the socially weak with peanuts and empty words. the european union is no longer able to calm down its citizens with empty phrases, nor is it able to stop the decline in births and the increase in poverty. paper may be patient, but citizens are no longer.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i couldn't make my statement because of the volume and i'd like to make up for it now. i voted for the kaufmann report because it is about making it clear that the judicial network is a necessity because it has worked effectively in the context of the legal aid procedure over the last ten years. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. both institutions have their justification. the aim is to establish a complementarity or cooperation between eurojust and the european judicial network, thus ensuring security for the member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that this decision has filled a gap. the mutual recognition of sentences in criminal proceedings now makes it possible to enforce a judgment, to enforce it across borders, even in absentia. this is a crucial step in helping the police in their work through the judicial process.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is about the possibility that we will finally have of using and checking the visa system in connection with the violations of the schengen external borders. we know that many illegal immigrants are illegal in the european union because their visas have expired or become invalid. with this cooperation between the schengen system and the visa information system, we are creating the conditions for ending the abuse of visas in the european union and ensuring legal entry and exit into the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is about strengthening eurojust. this instrument also serves to strengthen and make effective police cooperation. it has been shown that a very large number of institutions are involved in judicial cooperation at national level. it is therefore very sensible to propose here that a system of coordination be set up within the member states and between them, in order to ensure that cooperation is effective, particularly in the field of terrorism and also in other areas of organised crime. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in other words, the european union is using this system to create another safety belt ahead of the european union.
in writing. - it is counterproductive to keep your own people learning while waiting for the blue card schemes to come. the increase in atypical conditions and the increased pressure of competition mean that a good basic and continuing education is no longer a protection against unemployment. there are enough well-educated people who are rejected by companies simply because they are looking for the cheapest mac-job doctor or master or just want to offer more atypical working conditions. in principle, the shortage of skilled workers, which is used as a pretext, must be eliminated by training campaigns; if this is not possible, a seasonal model is preferred. this will ensure that there is no further mass immigration.
in writing. - i support the report by mr brejc on the use of the visa information system in the context of the schengen borders code. the common rules for the schengen external borders need to be amended, and the application of the visa information system needs to be made more efficient and uniform. this must be done with great restraint and caution, as data protection and human rights are always at the forefront and must be respected. the comprehensive verification of fingerprints at the borders through the visa information system leads to unnecessary congestion and prolonged border stays, even for citizens who do not need a visa. the report now only requires random queries to be made in the information system. the border officer also checks whether the person has all the conditions for entry into the eu. however, he may decide whether he wishes to make an additional inquiry. this approach will continue to ensure a very high level of security, but will not allow the border guards to stay at the borders longer than is absolutely necessary.
in writing. − the upgrading of the visa system is certainly suitable for facilitating future fraud prevention and is therefore welcome on the assumption that data protection is guaranteed . if in future the storage of fingerprints and facial images is required for the issuing of schengen visas, this will lead to significant changes in the embassies. in germany, it is discussed that some embassies are not in a position to do so in terms of staff and space. the potential outsourcing of data storage to outside companies, which is being discussed in this context, is, however, highly concerning. this opens up new potential for future visa scandals. the visa system has good approaches, but overall it is not yet sufficiently thought out, which is why i could not agree with the present report.
in writing. − it is important that certain rules are clarified in asylum procedures, including the clarification of jurisdiction to avoid multiple applications. while the home affairs committee calls for greater protection of children in asylum procedures, more and more children traveling alone are appearing at europe's borders, seeking to take advantage of the special protection against deportation and refoulement. they risk their lives again and again, looking for new, more sophisticated escape routes. if what is meant to be a protection becomes a means of attracting new risks, we will have to think of new ways of doing it. the report contains some suggestions, but overall i do not think it is broad enough, which is why i could not agree with it.
in writing. - in the last 10 years we have been talking about the hot potato and have still not been able to agree on methods to effectively curb vat fraud - which is tax fraud of at least 2-2,5 per cent of economic output. the reverse change system sounds very nice on paper, but it seems to be too immature, which is why the main demands are still for better cooperation between the member states. in the area of fraud in particular, we have some member states which are particularly prone to fraud and lax controls, while at the same time there is unacceptable laissez-faire in the recovery process. i do not think that the report by parliament is meaningful and does not, in my view, offer any new solutions, which is why i abstained.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to congratulate the commissioner. we are now in the second stage of reducing roaming charges in voice telephony. i believe that this regulation has proved to be very effective in practice. however, at the end of the holidays, our consumers will again be faced with shock bills because in reality there has been too little progress in the market in the area of sms and, in particular, in the area of data roaming. i therefore call on the commissioner to take action here and to create a european single market for european consumers. we must recognize that the european single market is not yet operational in this area and that there is an urgent need to establish the european single market, in particular with regard to the gradual introduction of a common flexible frequency usage plan. efficient management of this scarce resource is of particular importance. the digital dividend is a historic opportunity and it will also be important for the television companies to be able to broadcast their programmes in the 3g area, so that we have a european media area. there are also new opportunities in the field of european communication. i would also like to stress the importance of implementing the decisions of the world radio conference accordingly and i would ask the commission - since it is not provided for here in the bert - to set up its own authority or group to deal with these issues and to adopt appropriate guidelines for cooperation. i also believe that bert should be financed 100% from community funds, because we simply need an authority or an institution that is committed to the european single market, and because regulators in the member states should be given more rights in the other countries.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have a paradigm shift here from overproduction in europe to a fear of security of supply. do you think that the wto negotiations, which have now been conducted under the french presidency, will have a chance of reaching a correspondingly positive conclusion by december? do you think that the world market could be a huge opportunity for our agriculture? we have seen that prices have risen enormously and that with these prices, not only does our agriculture in france, in the united kingdom and especially in the new countries have completely new income opportunities, but that especially in the poorest of the poor countries, in the least developed countries, there would be great opportunities for income.
the commission has already done so. i would like to draw attention to one aspect of this matter which i consider very important. in all the surveys that have been carried out at european level, it has been shown that young people are the most enthusiastic about this european union. it is also young people who believe they can benefit most from this union, in contrast to the strongest opponents, who are mostly old, jaded, disillusioned men. i would be interested to know to what extent you have plans, in the course of this plan and perhaps beyond, for projects which could further strengthen this interest of young people, this 'yes' to europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i support the view that parents and guardians have a fundamental responsibility in dealing with children. today, children are seen and treated as important consumers in the economy. thus, it is necessary to prepare them from an early age to appreciate the power of advertising and its negative effects. i do not think that we should have a uniform regulation for this throughout europe. we must, as the commissioner says, try to show them the way from an early age in education, making them aware of the opportunities but also of the dangers that advertising presents.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. the debate today is essential to highlight the dangers of cloning. i am very grateful to neil parish for making the oral request to the commission. one thing is clear: animal health also means food safety. we know that there are different types of cloning: therapeutic and reproductive cloning and dna cloning. today we're going to discuss reproductive cloning. reproductive cloning means making a genetically identical copy of something, of a plant, an animal and maybe even - if we think we have to cross all boundaries - of a human. i would like to point out the problem when it is used in animal husbandry for food. first, the very high failure rate. we know from the americans, very few survive. it is therefore financially unprofitable for the food supply. the clone has the genetic age of the original from the start, i.e. if the original is a six-year-old cow, the clone is a calf whose genes are six years old. the cloning process inevitably damages the cloning genome. this leaves the clone vulnerable to disease and parasites. the commissioner, in cloning over several generations, is increasingly leading to a decline in the genetic diversity which is essential for the survival of a species, because it allows it to adapt to changes in its natural environment. finally, the question arises whether man can presume to interfere with the most natural things in life, even if it is done with the best of intentions. what has worked for millions of years seems to need no change. a person lives far too short to experience the effects of his actions over long periods of time. i hope we don't end up like goethe's wizard apprentice, who says, "the spirits i've called, i can't get rid of them".
in the modern world, consumers are increasingly exposed to a variety of substances, some of which are dangerous. in the use of some products, including in everyday life, information on the substances contained in them is essential for safe and non-hazardous use. the globally harmonized system for the classification and labelling of chemicals, developed at un level in 2002 with the active participation of the eu, is to be implemented by all member states this year. a major advantage of this system is the use of generally accepted pictograms. consumers and businesses can thus see at a glance whether a product contains specific substances that may also be dangerous. the system also introduces uniform definitions, such as the ld50 (lethal dose 50), which provide a clear indication of the hazardous nature of the substance. the community and we in the european parliament have set ourselves the objective of keeping animal testing for the evaluation of substances as low as possible. the definitions have also been clarified and clearer instructions for action have been drawn up for the authorities in the member states. the successful implementation of the globally harmonized system for the classification and labelling of chemicals is an important milestone towards the completion of the european internal market, which will also benefit international trade.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. a uniform eu-wide registration procedure for hydrogen-powered vehicles will remove at least one obstacle to the development of environmentally friendly forms of mobility. in the field of public transport in particular, there are already some promising projects which will make it possible to move the mass production of hydrogen-powered passenger cars into the immediate vicinity. but the question is, how is hydrogen produced? the positive co2 balance depends very much on how hydrogen is produced in the future. it's not worth it if the manufacturing process produces more co2 than the hydrogen drive saves. at the same time, we must ensure that the necessary infrastructure for filling stations is created and built, because a hydrogen-powered car also needs to be fuelled. the member states are the ones who are most concerned. the clear guidelines in this report will create a legal framework which will enable the further development of this promising technology and many other innovations. the president of this house, mr pöttering, could speak from his own experience of hydrogen-powered vehicles. it would be worth considering, at the very least, using his experience to adapt the fleet of this house accordingly. it would be a worthwhile suggestion to consider. in conclusion, i would like to thank mrs weisgerber for her kind cooperation in the compilation and preparation of this report.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. the promotion of alternative and environmentally friendly fuels in the eu is an important step that needs to be supported today. hydrogen vehicles are suitable for this purpose, but they must guarantee a high level of safety and environmental protection. to ensure this, uniform conditions for type-approval in the european union are needed. without regulated eu-wide type-approval of hydrogen-powered motor vehicles, there is a risk that individual member state approvals will distort competition and that investment by companies in hydrogen vehicles will no longer be profitable. a single type-approval system offers citizens the protection of an eu-wide directive and promotes the much-needed spread of environmentally friendly motor vehicles.
in writing. - hydrogen propulsion is certainly a technology with future potential, but it is by no means mature. in addition to the purchase costs which are not yet financed, there are high costs for the production and storage of hydrogen. and even if the cars themselves do not produce harmful emissions, it is still unclear how hydrogen can be produced as energy-efficient and co2-free as possible. finally, we do not yet know whether battery vehicles or fuel cell cars will prevail. it is important that we support alternative technologies to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. i therefore voted in favour of the weisgerber report.
in writing. − russia is important to the eu not only as an energy supplier but also as a counterweight to the us's quest for world domination. not only for these reasons, but also to avoid jeopardising its credibility, it is important that the eu plays a neutral mediator role between georgia and russia. in many post-soviet states, such as ukraine, there are extremely large russian populations. so it is more than understandable that the kremlin feels a special responsibility for these russian ethnic groups. the eu could help negotiate a solution that would be acceptable to all sides, such as advocating for generous ethnic rights for russians living in the post-soviet space, which would also meet the european union's much-cited human rights goals. i am therefore in favour of the position adopted at the special summit and i am against the vassal attitude of this report towards the united states, which is why i voted against it.
in writing. - i vote for the report by eva-britt svensson on the continuing discriminatory advertising. gender stereotyping is still a major issue in society today, despite the measures already taken. advertising in particular tends to reproduce entrenched stereotypes of men and women. children and adolescents in particular identify with the characters in the advertisements and thus adopt the stereotypes depicted. this should be prevented in any case, so that the issue of gender equality can be dealt with more easily by the rising generations. i believe that specific gender equality education programmes are a good way to address this. the aim is to eliminate the pervasive stereotyping, especially in textbooks. in summary, all citizens are exposed to advertising in their daily lives and therefore advertising must be designed in an exemplary manner. the report makes it easier to achieve the desired goal.
in writing. - only 12 years ago, a new technique, apparently associated with high mortality rates and considerable suffering, caused worldwide astonishment with the cloning of dolly the sheep. and now entire industries are rubbing their hands together, dreaming of "healthy" cloned pork, enriched with omega-3 fatty acids. and then this animal cruelty is supposed to benefit the pigs, because they're healthier too. and of course, the farmers would also benefit because they would have less financial losses. this is a striking reminder of the various genetic engineering temptations that have led to the ruin of farmers in succession because the seeds were only usable once and they could not afford to buy new ones. and it's reminiscent of the sudden, unnatural deaths of entire herds after eating genetically modified food. at present, the long-term effects of radiation exposure or even genetic engineering are not sufficiently understood, let alone the impact of cloning can be estimated. i mean, aside from the cross-reactions. what happens when a cloned animal is fed genetically engineered food, and what effect does this have on humans? frankenstein says hello to you. that is why i am voting against this vote.
the commission has already done so. i would like to take up a matter which has been raised by several colleagues. sanctions must not hit the wrong people. in particular, they must not affect the poorest of the poor. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have had repeated experience in the past that corrupt and human rights-defying regimes very often have as a side effect that a lot of public money is usually transferred to private assets and then parked somewhere in beautiful accounts until the member of the regime can retrieve and enjoy that money again. the point here is that we seek and find global cooperation in the same way that we have done in the international criminal court in the beginning. the european union can play an important role in ensuring that the fruits of this policy do not reach where we do not want them to.
i'd like to know what's going on with online distance learning. is it possible that the commission could also set up a website to identify the problems faced by remote establishments in the context of complaints, so as to increase transparency?
we have the problem that many people in europe ask themselves where the european added value is. the european union is not responsible for education, but we are responsible for quality assurance and consumer protection. we do a lot of things here. the commission's general information policy could not be directed to schools, and in this case perhaps even to the lower grades? here, projects and competitions can be used to show that europe is bringing european added value. perhaps, in connection with the previous question, this topic could be brought to the attention of the very young.
it is simply a matter of thinking about what future opportunities exist for bringing complaints to the public in a transparent way. when cross-border activities are repeated, it is necessary that the courts and prosecutors also have access. do you think it's possible to set up a database here?
it is good that this problem was obviously resolved quickly and promptly. just a question: we had the problem at that time, often, that funds that the palestinian authority used might not have been used in the way that the donors had imagined. are these problems also being solved in the meantime?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. services are an essential part of our economic future. this is not only true of the advanced economies here in europe, but it is also true, and particularly true, of the so-called developing countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in a number of cases, they may even be more important there. the rapporteur, mr kamall, whom we should thank for his report, and mr zaleski, for example, have all pointed out what is possible in the services sector: transfer of knowledge, better qualifications, jobs and better infrastructure. these are things that we should all be standing up for. so we should be able to give some of the ideologies that we have been fighting over here in europe for the last few years and centuries a little less of a retro look. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the problems of the developing countries, but that we should not be concerned about the problems of the developing countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all want open borders in services. i would like to make two points in this connection. in 2006, the european union took a clear stance on the provision of public services, not opening up the sensitive sector to open competition. now, of course, there is an attempt under gats to liberalise this sensitive area through the back door. this requires a different approach from that of commercial services. the same applies, of course, to the developing countries. the eu must not put pressure on developing countries to liberalize public services. they must be able to determine that for themselves. a second sensitive point concerns the financial services market. since the 1980s, financial services markets have been the most globalised sub-market and have experienced enormous growth, especially in financial transactions. the foreign exchange markets have an annual turnover of 360 trillion us dollars. participation in global growth markets is of course an economic freedom, but developing countries are highly vulnerable to external shocks. the liberalization of financial services should therefore be based on the level of development of the respective ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i believe that small and mediumsized enterprises are particularly in need of assistance in the services sector. we have 25 million businesses in europe. i believe that many of them would be able to achieve the same success on the international market. finally, in the least developed countries too, one of the main questions is how to generate income. it is therefore particularly important for commissioner mandelson not to give in to the wto negotiations but to give them a new impetus. we need trade facilitation, we need commitment to trade facilitation, and i hope that we will be able to do so in the near future.
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. - mr president, i have to say something. european consumers are crying out in pain over the high food prices, and i believe that one of the causes of the exorbitant price increases is the concentration of trade in a few large companies. i have reason to fear that a similar development may occur in the future for travel agencies. the liberalisation of the code of conduct for computer reservation systems envisaged in this report is intended to increase competition in the market. however, i am afraid that in the future only large tour operators will be able to afford to contract with several crs providers. this will be necessary to provide a comprehensive service to customers. the small ones who cannot afford to have multiple contracts with crs providers are left behind. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on competition are applied in the air transport sector. i therefore support a rigid definition of the term 'parent carrier'.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if the mail traffic of the last few weeks for this report had had to be handled by a riding messenger, we would have used up some horses - no doubt. modern communication has allowed us to stay in constant contact here and to be constantly updated. the greatest credit for this, however, goes to our colleague mr kirkhope, who has kept colleagues informed in a really exemplary way, who has always corresponded with the shadow rapporteurs and who has really done everything to really bring the committee's concerns to the council. but the council has not made his job easy. on the contrary, formulations have been proposed - we have been able to follow the process well - which would have done nothing but better disguise practices that distort competition. and i refuse to do that! i have to say frankly that the countries which are home to the lines which distort competition would do well to take consumer protection more seriously through fair information and to follow our proposals to ensure that this is done. the code of conduct is not the strongest of all the instruments at our disposal. we must be clear about that. the more important it is to have a clear wording that gives us the assurance that no new back door is being opened. i therefore want to ensure that this is clear, together with mrs hennis-plasschaert, by referring it back to committee. i think that is a very important question. we have to stand up for this. we must protect consumers and we must also draw the consequences. i would like to thank my colleagues, and especially the rapporteur, for the fact that environmental concerns have also been reflected in this dossier, as far as possible in this area. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other members for their work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur, timothy kirkhope, has been rightly thanked on several occasions today for having actually managed to reach a good consensus on a highly complex subject in the committee and in cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs and with the other colleagues, and i hope that this will hold up tomorrow. it has just been said that even the concept of crs was not clear to many colleagues at the beginning of the discussion. we know what is at stake today, and we know what important questions we have rightly raised. i would like to thank you once again for the good work you have done on what i hope will be a good european legislative act. we have included in this report a number of points which, beyond the highly technical nature of the report, now have an important function, also in another context. consumers are protected by the fact that the price must be fixed in a definitive way and cannot be permanently obscured by various special or additional prices. we have taken a substantial step forward - because that is what our group is always accused of doing. we have found: we want to talk not only about the priority of rail but also to make sure that rail has a fair chance of being included in this for short and medium haul flights. as mentioned, we have also reported or requested to report co2 consumption also to ensure a comparison between what we want to achieve and what the consumer can contribute to it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union should act within its competence where it can actually create european added value through its own rules. i do not see this european added value in the case in hand. i see some countries who do not take their own responsibilities at home seriously or have not taken them seriously so far, or who simply think that this is the way to get european money through europe. there is no european added value in this, only new costs or new bureaucracy, especially for those countries which have done their homework and have protected their soil sensibly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. perhaps i have not noticed it either, but i would like to know from the official side - that is, from you - what is going on in strasbourg in the coming weeks, in the light of the many rumours circulating in this house.
in writing. - i vote for the report by timothy kirkhope on the code of conduct on computer reservation systems. the new code of conduct encourages competition between computer reservation systems, which benefits both price and quality of service. the current system is outdated, as almost 40% of bookings are now made through alternative websites where booking fees are completely eliminated. the new code is beneficial to the customer by increasing competition and reducing fees. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. in order to provide customers with the best possible information and protection against anti-competitive practices, the range of services needs to be extended, regulated and controlled at eu level. it is therefore important that the air fares offered on main advertisements already include the full air fares including all taxes and fees and that the customer is not deceived by frivolous offers. the same applies to the listing of co2 emissions and fuel consumption: both must be visible to the customer. by offering an alternative route for flights of less than 90 minutes, he thus has a choice and can make a well-informed choice.
in writing. - i vote for the report by michael cramer on a sustainable and efficient logistics and freight transport system. this is the prerequisite for strengthening and expanding europe's position in international competition without doing so at the expense of the environment and citizens. the 'green corridors' are a fundamental concept for optimising transport in europe, while ensuring that it is as sustainable as possible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the single market. the investment in new technologies such as computerized 'stop-and-go' in freight transport and the support of off-road transport are important and pioneering. the european transport system can also be made more efficient and more optimal by harmonising organisation and administration at eu level. europe needs a competitive and innovative economy to succeed. the report we are discussing is a major contribution to this objective.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a trade unionist, i would like to draw your attention to the tragic events at the istanbul shipyards in tuzla. in the last three years alone, more than 90 workers in tuzla have been killed by the murderous working conditions. the last tragic accident, which i would call a crime, occurred on 11 august. three contractors died while testing a lifeboat, and 16 workers were injured. when a lifeboat was launched, the safety lines broke and the workers plunged into the water. the tragic thing about this accident is that these tests are usually done with sandbags. the workers were used as living sandbags. workers who wanted to strike against catastrophic safety regulations were threatened with immediate dismissal by the subcontractors. the commission's progress report in 2006 already pointed out that the rights of workers and trade unions in turkey are insufficient. i ask you to call on the turkish authorities to treat trade unions as equal social partners and to finally establish humane working conditions and stricter safety guidelines in tuzla to put an end to these disastrous conditions.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. - mr president, i have to say something. in 2007, there was even more talk of a possible continuation of the mortgage crisis. they tried to calm him down. we should have heard additional alarm bells in june 2007, when two hedge funds of the new york investment bank bear stearns collapsed because they were heavily invested in securities backed by real estate. that was just the beginning of the whole thing! and it became increasingly clear how little transparency was being done in financial services transactions of this kind. on the one hand, large profits were made for a few people in high-risk areas, but on the other hand, we are dealing today with a classic socialization of losses. it is not only us business journalists and economists who describe this situation in this way, but we in the eu, in the european parliament, are also changing our views, albeit late, and not fully. the commission would also like to see this, as there is a lot of potential. both reports - the rasmussen report and the lehne report - show the urgency of the need for action. it must be clear to all political actors by now that the market cannot regulate itself completely. the commission should now be aware of this. hedge funds and private equity are already among the largest employers, but according to many legal systems they no longer even appear as such and are, of course, exempt from employer obligations. this is not acceptable, it is too opaque! the financial crisis has also put thousands of jobs at risk. regulation, control, transparency, voice and information in the area of pension funds, which are heavily involved in hedge funds and private equities, are absolutely necessary. it is important for the committee on employment and social affairs that workers are not called to the register twice, commissioner, once by the financial crisis per se and once by the risk-sharing of pension funds. to prevent that from happening, directive 2003/41 should at least ensure that employees are informed, directly or indirectly, through trustees, of the nature and risks of their pension investments and are given a say. this is only one of the many facets which we have highlighted in our reports and opinions. commissioner, you are now called upon to do something! i know there's a lot to talk about, but you're on the record. and the election season is not over! i would like to draw your attention to this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to say that both the rasmussen and lehne reports, the social agenda with the nineteen points we discussed last time, and the decisions taken by the council and parliament on georgia show what we are capable of when we pull together despite our differences. i say this because i am glad that the socialist electoral machine, superficial populism and mutual blame-shifting have been defeated and that the cause, democratic parliamentarism, responsibility for necessary action, honest confrontation with reality will hopefully win tomorrow. i say this also because the chairman of the socialist group, mr schulz, has tried on several occasions in the plenary to drive a wedge between the groups on these very questions. the good/bad, left/right, state/market thinking does not correspond to the reality of people's lives, but is the result of an old class struggle electoral rhetoric that i hoped was overcome in the eu, and the debate has fortunately shown this so far. the reason has won and with it a realistic step forward can be taken and an answer can be given to the financial turbulence and the questions of the people. we have a sustained financial crisis. we therefore need to act. we cannot go on with the agenda. we need more european union, more transparency, more control, more european and global regulation. we need risk-based equity and we need to make sure that we do what we say in these reports and that all those involved do what we say in both reports.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i am speaking as a non-member of this committee because petitions give european citizens a direct voice. and i think that is very central and important at a time of growing euroscepticism in many of the member states. the petitions themselves are taken seriously and are being taken seriously. that shows the increase in numbers. that is why we consider it essential to follow up all these matters properly in order to maintain the confidence of citizens in the european parliament as an institution. that is what we must focus on. i will give three examples: the petition for the single seat of the european parliament has been signed by an enormous number of people. but there seems to be resistance to having a real debate here and to giving a clear answer. but the citizens deserve that answer. we have to give it. secondly, the via baltica with all its environmental problems. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. thirdly, petitions sometimes call for something which the european union is demanding but which it does not itself implement, as in the case of the 'open parliament'. the point is that you do not have to buy just one computer program to watch the european parliament's programmes and to reply in just one format. the open parliament is open standards. we have an obligation here and we must act here!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. the european year of intercultural dialogue is still underway and we are thinking about the year of creativity and innovation, and that is a good thing, because the two themes complement each other. this is very important, because it takes a lot of creativity, it takes a lot of innovation to create intercultural dialogue, to practice it and to live it. we should practice this now and then move seamlessly into the next year and into the new demands, because creativity must be seen as a driver of innovation and as a key factor in developing personal, professional, entrepreneurial and social competence. lifelong learning is particularly important. europe needs to increase its creativity and innovation capacity to prepare for and respond to the challenges of global competition and rapidly changing and evolving technologies. there's still a lot to do here. if i think of the research and development programme and the budget that each country should allocate - that is 3% of gdp - we are still far from that. if we look at other countries -- america, china and others -- that are investing significantly more in research and development, we also know where the gaps are. it also takes a lot of creativity and innovation to set up finances here. you could have used that on this program. unfortunately, it was without financial means. the countries - and also the organisations and institutions - must now look for themselves how they set priorities and how they finance them, of course within the framework of possible eu support programmes. but additional innovation and additional activities would have required additional financial resources. i'm sure that would have been necessary. it is also very important to establish close contact between artistic creation, schools and universities. the arts and culture also require support and encouragement in order to be able to implement creativity. the ideas are very often there, but the means to put them into practice are lacking. it is very important that we do not forget to evaluate - the year of intercultural dialogue, the year of mobility, all the things that are interlinked - in order to know in the end what the advantage is for the population and where it lies and how we can make it clear and understandable to our fellow citizens that all these accents ultimately have a positive impact on themselves and on the development of the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteurs, mrs lefrançois and mrs roure, on what i consider to be a very important achievement in their reports. whenever it comes to terrorism, we have to be very careful that the laws we make do not serve the goals of the terrorists, which is to take these tools from our society, which is based on equality, freedom and the rule of law, because then they have probably really achieved their goal, and that's not what we all want. it is therefore extremely important to me that there will be substantial restrictions on the transfer of data, that sensitive data may only be transferred in very strictly regulated exceptional cases and that the transfer of data to third countries can be severely restricted. i also think that the word 'incitement' is wrong. it is not in line with our rule of law system, and a 'foundation' would certainly have been better. it is equally important to respect freedom of the press, freedom of expression and the secrecy of correspondence. i can only appeal that all this happens. if we had the treaty of lisbon, and i did not have to appeal now, we would be in the co-decision procedure. but it is good that the colleagues who have been speaking against the lisbon treaty in the far right-wing back room are being exposed. they want less civil rights, they want less privacy, they want less freedom and they want a weaker parliament! i am sure the voters will have recognized that next time.
the commission has already done so. i would like to begin by referring to the second report, the framework decision on combating terrorism. we know that counter-terrorism activities are necessary because it is a fact that there are said to be over 300 al-qaeda initiatives within the union and over 500 websites available that even contain instructions for making bombs. that is clear, and i believe that it is necessary to try to maintain the balance, that is to say, to protect the fundamental freedoms, but on the other hand to also put in place all the measures that can be imagined, which prevent terrorist activities with the dead. i would like to draw your attention to one point. i believe that the european parliament would be making a very serious mistake if it were to change the terminology here, namely that the public call for the commission of a terrorist offence is replaced by incitement. and for the simple reason that the evidence of incitement can only be provided when there are already dead. then it's too late! no one would understand or accept that. but if there is a public call in this act, then there is a possibility of intervention if there is already a call for general disobedience to a law or if there is a call for an act that is threatened with a punishment in connection with terrorist activity. that means there's a chance to save lives before a terrorist act is committed. i would therefore regret it if parliament were to take the wrong road here and change the terminology. the council of europe has also decided that it should be the public call, and if i understand it correctly, the council and the commission are of the same opinion, and we should - and this is an appeal to all of you - join our opinion and leave the term 'public call' here, because it can save lives before terrorist activities take place.
i have to say, madam president, i am also speaking for the plo delegation. we voted for this report simply because everything must be done to combat terrorism in good time. i would like to draw your attention to one point which we are firmly opposed to, and i believe that parliament has made a mistake. we should not replace the offence of 'public incitement to commit a terrorist offence' by the offence of 'incitement to commit a terrorist offence' for the simple reason that evidence of incitement can only be produced after the act has already been committed, i.e. there may have been deaths. we are in favour of timely intervention when a terrorist act has not yet been committed, i.e. before, so that lives can be saved.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted in favour of this report simply because we need to take all the measures necessary to ensure that police and judicial cooperation across borders is efficient. we need to exchange data, but we must ensure that there are uniform standards throughout europe. what i do not like and against which i would have liked to vote - but there was no separate vote - was amendment no 10. in this case, mrs roure did not want to leave untouched essential and very specific national security interests. i would like to see a framework decision which, of course, allows very specific national security interests which affect the internal security of a country to be left untouched and to be able to act independently. i think that is absolutely necessary in the interests of individual member states.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report by katerina batzeli on the european year of creativity and innovation 2009. i believe that information and public relations campaigns, events and initiatives at european, national and local level to promote creativity and initiative are of the utmost importance. creativity is also an important factor in the development of personal and social skills. this year of funding aims to improve europe's creativity and innovation capacity to respond to certain challenges of globalisation. this report highlights the importance of creativity and innovation. i see this year as a good opportunity to spread knowledge about the creative process and different approaches.
in writing. − in areas where nature presents people with difficult conditions, they must be creative and innovative to survive. the european peoples today have a history of breakthroughs, and specialist firms are in demand worldwide for their ingenuity. but europe is also a cultural stronghold and this is what should be given special attention in the context of the european year of creativity and innovation 2009. linz is currently preparing to become the 'cultural capital of europe 2009' alongside vilnius in lithuania. creative and innovative projects involving the surrounding regions will provide a unique cultural experience. it is a welcome opportunity to revitalise whole neighbourhoods, to tackle new buildings and projects, as long as sustainability is not forgotten. the eu must ensure that the money is not wasted on one-off events, so that the structures created do not disappear into the dustbin as soon as the year is over. a cultural capital project is only successful and innovative if culture remains permanently established in the city. it is precisely this consideration that should be given greater weight in this report, which is why i abstained.
in writing. − it is of course welcome that the bologna process should make it easier for students to choose from a wide range of high quality courses. the eu has also placed a strong emphasis on student mobility and is also seeking to improve mutual recognition of training. there's no question that things aren't going well here. in addition to the huge gap in recognition, some courses converted to bachelor's and master's degrees are allegedly so specialised that no change of study location is possible either at home or abroad, which is contrary to the objective of a european higher education area or increased mobility. i agree with the critics that the ects credit system is so differently handled from country to country that achievements are hardly comparable. in this sense, the idea of drawing up an interim balance sheet will be useful, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - the eu deals with two billion tonnes of waste a year, of which 40 million is special waste. the quantities produced by domestic plants, together with industrial waste, are likely to account for the largest share of this, although the latter naturally have a much higher hazard potential. all of this is what the statistics tell us, which is why the eu has set itself the lofty goal of reducing the amount of waste it has to dispose of by 20 percent by 2010. it is hoped that in the field of agricultural waste, for example, the need to collect statistical data will not be reduced to a paper war against our farmers. i have voted in favour of the report because i found no indication of this.
in writing. - i am voting for the report by roselyne lefrançois because the prevention of terrorist offences must be a central element in the fight against terrorism. the incitement to commit a terrorist offence, the recruitment of terrorist activists and the training of terrorists are three preparatory acts which also constitute criminal offences. but fundamental rights must always be respected. i therefore vote in favour of using the term 'incentive' instead of 'encouragement', as it is more precise and allows less leeway. the internet as a virtual training camp must be opposed, because new information and communication technologies are making it increasingly easier for terrorists to spread their propaganda. the eu must take a clear and decisive stance against terrorism, and the inclusion of the three new offences is an important step in this direction. the freedom of the press, freedom of expression and the right to respect for the secrecy of correspondence and telecommunications, which also includes e-mails and other electronic communications, must not be curtailed, which is why i am in favour of the amendments tabled by roselyne lefrançois.
in writing. - within the eu we certainly have sleepers who could become active at some point. it must be remembered that terrorists do not fall from the sky, but come to the country and grow up in a hostile environment. if the eu is to be truly effective in fighting terrorism, it must tackle the emergence and spread of parallel societies and so on, rather than denouncing as racists those who have problems in living with migrants. the fight against terrorism must not lead to a stealthy erosion of civil rights - as the european court of justice has recently called for - or to the fight against crime being overshadowed by a focus on terrorism. given that islamist fanatics are the number one terrorist threat, it is long overdue to crack down on islamist hate preachers and criminalize, for example, training in terrorist camps across europe. i have voted for the lefrançois report in that sense.
in writing. - i support the report by martine roure, which guarantees a high level of data protection in the processing of personal data. the fight against terrorism must not be at the expense of citizens' fundamental rights, which is why the protection of personal data must be guaranteed absolutely. the council of ministers' agreement has some shortcomings and cannot guarantee that. the report addresses the shortcomings and amends the council's approach to more strictly regulate the use and disclosure of personal data. the proportionality and purpose of data processing are more precisely formulated, the transfer to third countries is subject to more rigorous controls and a group of experts is required to act as a control and enforcement body. the long debate in the european institutions shows the complexity and sensitivity of the subject. the commission has also proposed that the data protection rules should be amended to take account of the new data protection rules. personal data must always be handled with the utmost care and with all possible safeguards.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no simple answer to this question, but perhaps a few words can explain why this is an important issue for us too. firstly - and this is really true for all the member states of the european union, not just for us - safety and the optimal organisation of maritime transport are important concerns for all those involved. the disasters, not just those associated with the flowery name 'erika', have made this very clear to many of us. but now we come to a very specific point, which some of my colleagues have already pointed out: the inclusion of inland waterway transport in the liability rules is a european citizens' quibble without equal. we should reject it, our colleagues from the seafaring nations as well as those from the inland countries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime transport system is not affected by the crisis. on the contrary, we should establish liability rules for inland waterway transport, but not artificially subordinate them to the rules of high seas transport, by means of a reasonable special regulation.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the european commission has done great work in many areas over the past few years - environmental and climate policy, for example - and we in this parliament are in the process of translating this into law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the current financial crisis provides ample opportunity for discussion, and we have done so with the rasmussen report. it is not just me, my group and many others who are deeply disappointed by what commissioner mccreevy has said or has not said here. that's the big problem. if you read the editorial pages of conservative newspapers today - whether it is the financial times or the frankfurter allgemeine - the headlines could have been written by social democratic groups in this house, certainly not by the president of the commission and certainly not by mr mccreevy. the financial times, for example, reads: "modern history's greatest regulatory failure" or "after the crash: why global capitalism needs global rules". and while the golden calf by artist damien hirst has achieved record sales, financial institutions have recorded record bankruptcies, leading the financial times to say: "how we were all blinded by the golden calf". unfortunately, the same applies to the commission, at least to the members of the commission who would be responsible for these matters. the not-so-left editor-in-chief frank schirrmacher wrote in the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung: "the neoliberal ideology has established a rational and happy relationship between the individual and globalisation, which was exclusively economically based", and he laments "the self-destruction of the social welfare discourse". i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already said that he is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i am not asking for much left-wing criticism or self-criticism, but what we are asking for again and again, and what martin schulz has recently made very clear, is that the social dimension be strengthened and that all the commission's projects be examined in terms of their social consequences. unfortunately, that's still not going to happen. the commission has not given an answer. what we are also asking for is a stronger common economic policy in europe, which could also help to mitigate or avoid crises such as those which are now coming from america. the commission is a little lax here too. and where the commission - i'm sorry to address you - fails the least is that in the face of growing inequality in europe, it either does nothing itself or does not call on national governments to act. we shall also be discussing this in the afternoon on the question of energy poverty, which we have raised again and again and on which we have not received any response from the commission, on which there are no real initiatives. it is not possible for the commission, which is in favour of inclusion, inclusion and social justice in principle, to watch inequality in europe grow at this stage of economic and social life. this cannot be, this cannot be accepted! the citizens of europe expect the commission to take these needs and concerns seriously, to take them up, to make appropriate proposals and to act as a moral authority, as it did in the financial crisis. it should not be left to the president of the council, the french president sarkozy, to speak clearly here, but it should also come from the commission, from the president of the commission and also from the commissioner responsible. the commission's work is being presented to the public in a very honest way, and we fully support and appreciate that. but the content must be right, too. the commissioners must also give you the relevant content. as far as the financial crisis, regulation, the social dimension are concerned, the social market economy does not provide you with enough content. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we say yes to the ecological re-design of our economy and society, we are fully at your side and will do so. but i would urge you to do so: we need a step backwards or forwards in the policy of social responsibility, including within the commission, because too little is being done in this area, and too late. see if you can correct that in the next few months!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the commission! the discussion of the work programme is, as usual, the moment of truth. we have seen the value of the statements made publicly on various occasions. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the financial perspective for the community's structural funds is a very good one. we have a programme on climate change, as if the bali conference had never taken place, as if europe had not emerged as the necessary global leader to combat the dangers of climate change. the car industry is slowing down and the commission is watching. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the same is unfortunately true in the industrial sector in general. the emphasis is still on nuclear energy. it eats up capacity, money, energy. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one. this is not working! if we are to be leaders, we must set clear and unambiguous goals and focus on where it is needed. unfortunately, we have the same problem in employment. i can only emphasize one thing more clearly: the working time directive, as it has now been adopted and which is being given up here, is a slap in the face to all young people who want to build their future, because that is not the way to deal with labour. finally, the debate on the financial markets. i can only agree with my predecessor, mr swoboda. the last of those who believe in the self-regulation of financial markets are sitting in this house. even in the united states, people think about regulations, but here they act as if it's all happening by itself. the signal we needed would have been a willingness to create a solid framework so that financial markets could no longer be shaped in the way they are now, where meaningless financial products take precedence over sound economic policies. i'm very disappointed in this program.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are facing today a volatile mix of social decline, cultural conflict, growing democratic deficits, threatened supply shortages, a surge in inflation, imported security risks and a speculative bubble that is about to burst. for too long, worrying developments in the labour market and the concerns of citizens have been ignored. now is the time to set priorities. in view of the food crisis, i believe that a renationalization of agricultural policy is essential to maintain self-sufficiency. the problems of illegal mass immigration must finally be solved, as must a sensible family and birth policy for the indigenous population. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. the eu's family wealth must no longer be sacrificed to the privatisation euphoria. finally, it must be accepted that the lisbon treaty has in fact failed. if the eu shows some sense of purpose, we can get through the current crisis, otherwise we are likely to see an unstoppable decline of the union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. india and europe need more and better contacts at all levels, especially at the level of so-called ordinary people: business travellers, tourists, students, etc. a short note on this: it is also relevant to the commission's legislative programme, which we discussed earlier. in the world of air transport we need good safety regulations, ones that do something, and not just alibi measures. it would therefore be a sensible, really necessary measure to finally abolish the pointless regulations on the carriage of liquids and to think of something better.
in writing. - the introduction of the sis ii surveillance system has already been postponed several times due to technical difficulties. at that time, for example, the new eastern european member states, faced with serious problems at their borders, pushed for the introduction of a 'gap-finder programme'. this may have made sense in the circumstances, but it certainly caused additional costs. we now seem to be having good experiences with the current version of sis. in the long term, the programme will of course have to be developed further. however, unripe intermediate solutions can lead to security gaps, which is why i rejected the planned launch of the unripe version as premature.
in writing. - today, economic interests are being pushed through in a twisting and turning way. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. it is sufficient for the eu to introduce an obligation to warn customers of the risks of infringement of 'intellectual property rights', and then sanctions could be regulated at national level. in retrospect, each one can blame the other. in addition, in the present report, large software developers have tried to create a stumbling block for smaller ones. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to welcome the commissioner and also minister borloo very warmly. we have some questions here because we think - quite frankly - that the european union - the commission, perhaps the council too - has paid too little attention to the development of oil prices. i think that, despite the respect i have for the commissioner, we must do more. first, the rising price of oil. i have repeatedly asked, commissioner, what happens to these profits? in reality, they are not invested, for example, in alternative energy or other major investment projects, but are used to buy shares and pay dividends. secondly, the falling oil prices, which are partly to blame. does the commission have any idea whether these falling oil prices are being passed on to consumers? i'm afraid not but i want an answer from you. thirdly, the question of energy poverty. we have discussed this, including in connection with the reports we adopted in committee. it is not a problem for the commission to put together a very specific energy poverty package, irrespective of future legislation. these are not only measures which the commission can take, but also measures which, of course, individual governments must take. but here we want more initiative from the commission. fourthly, the external energy policy, the supply of energy, particularly natural gas. we've talked about this a few times. i understand you were in nigeria recently. it would be interesting to know what initiatives have been taken. we see nabucco sneaking away, to take just one example. the americans have imposed the ptc pipeline for oil. everybody said it wasn't profitable at all. now, with oil prices so high, it's profitable. they simply said, we want and need this to diversify our energy supply. what is europe doing? europe is far too weak to enforce certain things. i would like the council and the commission to act with greater strength and with greater determination and determination and to continue the appropriate diversification, because of course this is also important for energy supply. but the question of energy poverty and what we are doing about it, which is still very serious, is of particular importance to our group.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! the european commission has presented a package on the safety and security of nuclear power stations. will you ensure that this is finally on the agenda of the council working party and that it can become a success for the french presidency? i would like to ask commissioner piebalgs if it would be possible to speak to commissioner kovács to see that we get incentives and write-offs for investment in the energy sector so that the profits can be invested in a meaningful way and so that prices can also be brought down.
i would like to know what the situation is in the energy sector now with regard to real and financial purchases. is there any proposal from the commission to make it clear in the statistics what is actually bought in energy and what is only traded on the financial market, and are you also planning to introduce a system of short selling?
here 's the situation . easa is now given more and more responsibilities to ensure a uniform level of safety in europe. that's good! the second wave of enlargement is now under way. what has not happened is that easa's budget has been increased or otherwise funded. there are two possibilities. the first is that you don't equate all agencies. i do not go as far as some of my colleagues who say that if some agencies were to cease to operate, no one would notice. easa is different. if easa doesn't have the money, lives are at stake. the second possibility is third-party financing, i.e. to improve easa's finances by charging a ticket. my question is, which of the two options would you prefer? madam president, i would like to say, outside the agenda, that i would agree with the polish colleague on the substance of the question of the conduct of the sitting.
i would like to raise a question which has not really been part of the discussion here. biofuels, biodiesel, bioethanol - there are different efficiency values and different allocations, also in terms of co2 emissions. what has not really been addressed is the direct use of energy in the extraction of the various fuels. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud.
i would also like to congratulate you on the outcome of today's vote. i would be interested to know whether you are actually planning to draw up a work plan for bert, agreeing on objectives, agreeing on a timetable so that we can make significant progress in the area of intergovernmental cooperation? we have recently read in new europe, the european magazine, that the european consumer is alleged to have suffered a loss of 30 billion euros from roaming. i would like to thank you for taking up roaming actively. do you think it will also be necessary to draw up an action plan for the member states, since some of the tasks have been taken out of the european parliament? is a new institution necessary?
commissioner, you have rightly received the praise - and it has been passed on to you - that the citizens owe you for making telecommunications in the common europe much cheaper and promising to become even cheaper. i should like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the commission's proposals. since i do not know whether you are responsible for this, i ask you to forward it if you are not. in the telecommunications sector, the commission can ensure that competition works, that it is cheaper with caps and other measures. why is this not possible in the petroleum products sector? why is it that we have a situation where prices are basically going up?
can you estimate how long this program and the transmission capacity will be possible? my second question is also along these lines: do you think we can create a european media space in europe too, where we can receive all the national broadcasts from all over europe?
in writing. given the dramatic health trends among children over 5 million are obese and 22 million are overweight in europe the establishment of a european nutrition strategy is a very welcome step. conscientious nutrition labelling of foodstuffs provides consumers with a good tool to make their diet more conscious. the comprehensive approach to awareness-raising, starting from the earliest childhood, will also undoubtedly contribute to a reversal of trends in the coming years. in the medium term, targeted actions such as the distribution of fresh fruit in schools are a necessary approach. european schools are also increasingly faced with the responsibility of school sports and daily physical activity, as children and young people spend a considerable part of the day at school. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the foodstuffs are not used in the same way as the foodstuffs themselves. in order to achieve a healthier europe in the long term, the european community must seek partners at all levels, in politics as well as in business and civil society.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i'm not going to tell you. in 2004, we had a hearing in the legal affairs committee on the role of collecting societies. some artists have described in very vivid terms the problems they encounter with the current system of collecting societies. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market. commissioner, this is a problem! the system you have proposed leads to a concentration of the market, which already favours the strong, but which ignores, for example, the convention on the diversity of arts and culture in europe. in this system, minority cultures, those that are not in the mainstream, or those that belong to small languages, must necessarily suffer because there is simply no way out. when we asked you in the legal affairs committee why you did not put forward what parliament had asked for in the lévai report, you said that the market would move in your direction anyway and that you did not see any need to make any changes here. the commissioner can now see from the rather contradictory judgments we have seen in recent times that this was not the right approach. but if we are to protect the creative potential, we need a forward-looking solution. i also think we will have to think more deeply about the connection of rights in general. is this in the old form, in this hardware-oriented form, sustainable in the long run? will we achieve the necessary objectives or will we not succeed? commissioner, i do not believe that further studies and hearings are the way to go. unfortunately, we have found that only the same people are invited, and that is always the giants of the market, not the small ones, or their opinion is not taken into account. we need a different approach and a clear legal proposal on how collecting societies can and must protect these rights and values.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we and the citizens of europe are glad that we can finally start the parliamentary debate on the proposal. i regret that in december threats by the pse group to the commission led to a blockade lasting several months. the proposal is a good one and it adds value to the citizens of europe. we want to see crossborder legal certainty created politically and not wait until the citizen goes to the court of justice to see his fundamental right to free movement of persons in this area realised. we are discussing a directive on patient mobility, not a directive on health services. the main responsibility for security of supply, quality and financing remains with the member states. but we know that we need stronger cooperation between member states in healthcare and more europe in research, with a focus on hospitals and in care across borders. it is a question of the free movement of patients. it is not a question of whether, but how we organise health systems and the quality of health services without undesirable side effects. we are moving between four poles: patient rights, protection of health systems and health insurance, quality assurance in health services, financial and legal security. it is in the legitimate interest of the patient to choose the health service which seems best to him. to make this possible, we need a legal framework and legal certainty. conversely, the vast majority of the population wants health services as close to home as possible. we have the problem of financing health care in the member states. more mobility at the same cost is therefore the right way forward. we have the question of quality assurance of services. we should also start the debate on minimum european standards here.
in writing. - i support the report by marianne mikko on media concentration and pluralism in the eu. access to free and diverse media in all member states is of paramount importance in our time. the two-pillar model introduced for private and public television and audiovisual media services has developed very well. in order to ensure the best possible development, public service broadcasters should be granted stable funding to enable them to promote public interests and social values, to maintain media pluralism and to provide citizens with high-quality content. in addition, i support the creation of a charter for media freedom. this is a starting point for ensuring freedom of expression. the independence of journalists, however, must be regulated by concrete legal and social guarantees. the concentration of ownership in the media system, which encourages the creation of monopolies, is also a problem. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative.
in writing. - i vote for the report by mr alessandro foglietta on the white paper on nutrition, overweight and obesity: a strategy for europe. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for restructuring in the areas of health, sport and nutrition. the problems of overweight and malnutrition are most common among the socioeconomically disadvantaged. a first approach can be found in schools. more exercise and a balanced diet for children and young people are the first steps towards a healthier life and should be taught in every european school. in addition, food labelling should be welcomed to enable consumers to compare food products and to distinguish between good and bad food. the report does not present an ideal solution, but it does make very good proposals for solutions. these solutions can change things for the better, which i consider very positive.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i must say first of all that i am very sad that we always need a crisis to find the right european resolve, the right choice of words, the right dynamic for common action, for european responses. european action and european rules are an essential part of the solution. they are not only a response to crises, they are also necessary to prevent crises in our global world. we need both short-term and long-term measures. crises show us how interdependent we are, how global, how interconnected the financial economy is today. i have here a package of demands from the european parliament since 2002, only a fraction of which has been answered by the commission and a large part of which has been blocked by the member states, preventing us from coming to european solutions. ladies and gentlemen, we need legislative proposals in the areas of european supervision, equity in debt, credit rating agencies, lending, crisis management models, minimum standards for all forms of investment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial markets are not affected by the crisis. it is not a question of demonizing the market and calling for nationalisation, but of creating as much market as possible and providing as much regulation as we need in the global world. everyone needs regulation - we must not leave anyone out - but risk-based regulation, product-based regulation - that is what i am asking for and i hope the council will implement it.
the commission has already done so. when, if not now, is it necessary to improve european supervision? all the signs are clear, we need action, we have something to do here. the arrangements for monitoring financial stability are absolutely necessary. we need tougher supervisory arrangements for macroeconomic policy and financial market surveillance, including in particular by the european central bank. key parameters for the qualified majority decision-making in the colleges of supervisors for a cross-border group in the european supervisory authorities are absolutely necessary. the size of the member states must of course be considered and evaluated separately. a smaller country cannot be overwhelmed by a larger one. the emergence of a structure at eu level, strengthened by legislation, to break down blockages and resolve conflicts between national and sectoral supervisors is absolutely necessary. we need to use all the management possibilities at level 3 to get a better design here.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs and also the commission for the good cooperation they have shown in the preparation of this report. we all know that water is the basis of all life. but this foundation is not available indefinitely. up to three billion people will be affected by water scarcity in the future. as early as 2007, one third of europeans lived in regions where water resources are scarce, according to the european environment agency. this problem is particularly acute in countries such as cyprus, bulgaria, belgium, hungary, malta, italy, the united kingdom, germany, spain and, unfortunately, many more. this means that water is being over-exploited, and climate change is of course making this situation worse. drought events have therefore become more frequent over the last thirty years. the costs incurred amounted to over 100 billion euros. the eu economy lost around €8.7 billion in the 2003 drought. but these extreme weather events have not only economic, but also social and human impacts. in addition to the general health impairment of the population, the 2003 heat wave killed some 35 000 people in europe. we also find that there are very large differences in water consumption patterns across europe. the average consumption in the community varies between 100 and 400 litres, whereas 80 litres per person per day should be consistent with a european standard of living. this is due to inefficiencies in outdated technologies and waste of water. for example, in france, 30% of the water in the distribution networks is lost. this means that we have enormous savings potential here in europe. it is high time that the community acted. the commission has already addressed the issue of water in several directives, for example those on bathing water, drinking water, flood water, water quality standards, etc. the water framework directive of 2000 and its implementation steps have been the milestone so far. it is now particularly important that the commission also ensures that member states comply with their obligations under this regulation. changes in environmental and climatic conditions, increased water use by the economy, agriculture and households, and of course changes in consumption habits have exacerbated water scarcity. unfortunately , we 're seeing more and more extreme weather patterns . on the one hand, there are heavy rains, with floods, and on the other hand, droughts are accumulating, devastating whole areas of europe. the commission's communication is certainly an important step in the right direction. nevertheless, there are still significant improvements to be made: first, water scarcity and drought should be considered as global phenomena. we must not focus on our own problems in europe alone - think of the flows of migrants that are pouring into europe, which are very often caused by drought events. secondly, member states must cooperate across borders to combat water scarcity and drought. the management plans of the water framework directive are designed to complement the aspects of drought and water scarcity. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's water resources are not depleted, and that the community's water resources are not depleted. thirdly, the commission document also lacks a concrete timeframe and verifiable objectives. without this, this strategy is not feasible. fourthly, europe should really try to become a global leader in water saving technology. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that we have presented a paper which is a substantial improvement on the commission document.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as long as it is ensured that water resources remain the sole property of the member states and cannot be interfered with in any way by the eu or the ecj, a common strategy to combat water scarcity is certainly a sensible one. but that is only if we tackle the problem in its entirety and tackle the related root causes, such as population explosion or climate change. the agricultural sector, which accounts for 70% of the world's water consumption, certainly has enormous savings potential. but the eu has also contributed its share of the water waste by connecting and forcing people to use the canal systems. in addition, poor decision-making often exacerbates existing water poverty, as in cyprus, where golf course construction has allowed citizens to pay the bill in water rationing despite chronic water shortages. we must therefore be more sensitive to the vital resource of water, but this must not lead to a uniform, eu-style, forced happiness for all member states.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i am grateful to the commissioner and to the other members for the very good suggestions they have made. i'd like to send a message that sovereignty over water resources must remain national. we must nevertheless show solidarity with one another. but this solidarity must remain voluntary. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will do so. i have only partially taken these into account, simply because this is an own-initiative report which must remain relatively general and set out general principles. i am really looking forward to the paper that the commission will hopefully present in the next few weeks, the green paper on adaptation to climate change, which we are all very anxiously awaiting, because we are all aware that the adaptation and climate protection part is mainly on the water side. we are very anxious to see what the commission's specific proposals are. i would remind you again that we consider the mainstreaming aspect to be extremely important, and that water policy must therefore be integrated into all other policy areas, as mr berend has also said. it is not possible for european funds to support projects which lead to water shortages in the short or long term. we also need to be clear and we need to create awareness, both in the political and economic world and among the citizens, that water is not an infinite resource. mrs doyle referred to the water pricing policy. it is quite clear that article 9 must be implemented. but the member states have a very large framework and the necessary flexibility, and the traditions of the member states must be taken into account. i also support the demand side measures, although the supply side must also be taken into account, as the spanish colleagues have said. there are special situations where we have to solve this too simply through the supply side. i would like to thank all of you very warmly for your encouraging words.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. we must all be aware that while we have some data on the arctic, it is still, on balance, a literal white spot, particularly in terms of international law. mr kelam has pointed out the lack of a convention on the law of the sea. even if we look at the natural and mineral resources - it is estimated that 22% of the world's oil and gas reserves are located there - this is an area of enormous importance for the future of europe. that is why it is particularly important that we, led by mrs wallis, table this resolution. the commission is now really called upon to present a concept, a strategy with concrete objectives and measures. that is what i think is still lacking. the problem is being tackled, but there is still no strategic direction. because we can't be second-rate here! some of the neighbouring countries, especially russia, are trying to establish facts. and it's very difficult to take action against a great power like russia if we're stuck here for so long. the european union must not fall behind the member states. this is an area of common interest and we cannot let various member states take the lead here because, for example, the cfsp is not working. the european union's common interest is simply too important here! i therefore call on the commission once again to present a precise and concrete strategy as soon as possible so that we can discuss it in parliament. there's just too much at stake for us to let go for too long!
in writing. in the health field, we must face the challenges. the main responsibility for maintaining and enforcing health standards lies with the member states. nevertheless, particularly in the case of crossborder problems, there are always areas where it is our task to assist the member states as best we can when they are unable to take effective action. the most serious problem is the serious inequalities between member states, on the one hand, but also within individual states. life expectancy is on average 10 years longer in the old member states than in the new member states. our task is to disseminate to the member states the methods we know and have already tried and tested. the aim is to bring the standards closer together by means of information measures for the public. health is a precious commodity for all of us. it is also an important economic factor. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of cancer. this requires integrating health policy into all policy areas and encouraging the development of new technologies and innovation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have just heard that those who oppose reform are living in the past. we want to shape the future! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. mr peterle has put it succinctly: we want our citizens to live as long as possible in good health. that is why we have been particularly active in the seventh framework programme on ageing. it is now time to use the small business act to make a massive contribution to the cause of the selfemployed and the one-man enterprises, so that they can become active in the health market and so that in future citizens will have more choices in the health market, so that they can choose the best solution in terms of quantity and quality.
in writing. − in general, cooperation between member states becomes more important in times of crossborder crime. it should also be borne in mind that what is severely punished in one country may be considered a mere misdemeanour in another. this must be taken into account. it is also essential to respect data protection requirements and to safeguard the rights of defendants and victims. this seems to be guaranteed by the present report, and i have therefore agreed to it.
in writing. - symbols have a power that cannot be underestimated. they can manifest something intangible, provide identity. but symbols can also be used in a negative way, for example, the human dna symbol has become a symbol for genetic manipulation. and the eu is also manipulative. the french and dutch referendums in 2005 rejected the eu constitution, leading to an exemplary eu-boredom in attempting to give the whole thing a new look by omitting the eu symbols and pushing through the almost identical failed product as the lisbon treaty. the only real change to the treaty on the european union, namely the abandonment of the use of the eu symbols, is being revived by way of a detour, and the eu is losing the last vestiges of its credibility. i have rejected the report because it is a deception of the citizen.
in writing. - in germany, when 20 to 30 clinics have to close every year, when doctors with recourse rights are driven into bankruptcy because of prescriptions that are allegedly too expensive, and when entire regions are threatened with medical shortages, these are the consequences of the faulty health policy of recent years. and the rest of europe is not looking much better. and not only is health care funding more than faltering, but doctors and nurses are increasingly being tied to desks with bureaucratic red tape instead of being able to do their real jobs. so we need a rethinking of the whole eu, we need, for example, coherent concepts of medical care and comparisons of best practice. but we also need to address root causes like child mortality by better supporting indigenous populations and creating incentive models for healthy lifestyles. prevention is just one small piece of the puzzle in health care. that is why i abstained.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. is there a minimum length of time to be on a committee, or is it just for today?
i have to say, madam president, at every opportunity, employers in particular are demanding more mobility and flexibility in the european labour market. only equal treatment and minimum social standards can reduce the discomfort workers feel about open labour markets and deregulation. the european union needs preventive measures for the job market, which is fortunately opening up more and more. the present draft report on temporary agency work shows how difficult it is to make progress in this sector. for six years this directive was blocked in the council on a variety of qualitative grounds. the proposal now guarantees equal treatment for temporary workers from the first day of work, albeit with restrictions, compared with other workers. the right to equal treatment in employment, equal pay for equal work - these are the basic principles of equal treatment. the member states have in place better regulations than this directive on a variety of grounds, but these are not affected by this. this is crucial. the path that has been taken here under the french presidency is the right one! the blockers of the working time directive and this also applies to the portability directive should now also correct their social thinking errors and understand that a social europe needs minimum standards. only then will the european union be more affirmed, understood and felt!
the commission has already done so. it is very good and encouraging that after five years of the programme we have already achieved an improvement and can therefore achieve both an increase in content and an increase in funding. normally parliament is not so keen to accept a report at first reading. but i think it is so well written and we can be so much behind the content that it is more important to finish it here in the first reading than to block the project. none of the students would understand that we need a second reading. i think it is very important to promote intercultural understanding and cooperation with third countries and not, as some of my colleagues have just pointed out, to make a list of the things that we are getting from this or that. the exchange has always been a source of enrichment, and we have always been able to benefit from it. it's a win-win situation for both sides. to look at it another way is narrow-minded and a little petty. it is also important that we promote this programme better, that we advertise it even more in the countries that are not involved enough, that we simplify various things. it is very important and essential that we can agree on the visa issue, and that, for example, the registration fees are the same in all countries. you need more comparison and more simplification to get the project moving forward. the geographical presence of all the countries should be as good as possible, of course, and then the project will be even more successful. we can be very proud of these five years and we will certainly continue to make progress in the future. this is in keeping with the theme of exchange and the year of intercultural dialogue, which must not be limited to various discussions but must also be put into practice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to make a specific proposal to you, mr president-in-office. set up a chair in the history of the financial market! let us examine in detail how we came to be where we are today! in the spirit of what martin schulz said: 'never more!', which he probably meant 'never again!', something like this must never happen again. "never more" would mean: "once more, that's it!" this can't happen! it is precisely from this chair that we could work out what the guilt of the conservatives, driven by an exaggerated us neoliberalism, but also what the guilt of the social democrats was, namely not to have pushed hard enough for social equality. take the opportunity to learn from history so that we can then dare to be a bold european social democrat and not be satisfied with the trifles that the treaty of lisbon supposedly brought us - which is not even true!
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate the council on its agreement on the third way on the energy package. it is a sensible solution which will save us from expropriating the energy companies, but will still ensure that there is a fair competition. secondly, the issue of co2 is of course an important one, particularly now in the financial crisis, because we are running the risk that auctioning will again overtake the real economy and create a new financial instrument for speculation, which will drive our energy-intensive industry out of europe. i therefore ask that we think hard again about whether the free allocation of co2 allowances with a clear 20% limit is not more sensible than taking the money away from the companies that need this money for innovation and research to achieve the 20% reduction. we also need a boost in investment, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. i therefore call for the development of the transeuropean networks, particularly in the energy sector, and for the development of strategies for increased energy efficiency measures, because this is particularly important for our craft industries, for employment in europe and for net wages in europe. finally, i would ask commissioner kovács to consider how we can get the economy back on track with tax policy, in particular by means of new and shorter depreciation possibilities, by means of corresponding amounts of exemption which we could use. the european economy could indeed be revived through taxation and incentives.
in writing. - the effects of natural disasters are diverse and often devastating. in addition to the human suffering caused by this, there are also economic effects which, as in the present case, set these countries back in their development by years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary infrastructure. the establishment of the solidarity fund to be promoted is intended to speed up such repairs by providing specific financial support, which also requires close monitoring of the use made on the spot. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. i think that this area should be given even more attention, which is why i abstained from voting on the report.
in writing. - erasmus mundus ii is based on the european student exchange programme, erasmus, but is mainly concerned with exchanges with third countries. it is designed to attract qualified foreign students to europe. i am in favour of intercultural exchanges in principle, especially at the scientific level. i have doubts, however, about the effectiveness and, above all, the usefulness of this programme for the member states. in times when in some member states there are limited places at universities for the indigenous population in certain fields, caution should be exercised in higher education in particular. the transfer of the entire european study system to bologna makes it very difficult for students with a master's degree to find a postgraduate place. i think it would be counterproductive to increase the competition for local students. the programme will also be difficult to control for the abuse of immigration provisions. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. − in crossborder marriage matters, it is important that there is a unified legal position in europe. the legal certainty of citizens in relation to a subject which is often so emotionally charged as marriage and divorce is of particular importance in the policy areas. in a world which is shrinking at an ever-increasing rate, the rules which are already possible in civil law, namely the free choice of law and of the courts by the parties, are important for their mobility. in this sense, this scheme creates a 'user-friendly' access to a part of family law. it is also important in this context that the parties are also well informed of the legal consequences of their decision. that is why i have agreed to the report.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. there are many differences between the united states of america and russia. i would like to see a free presidential election in russia, as i now expect it to be in america. but there are also some similarities between the great powers, and i hope that some of you may have seen the recent program on arte about the portrait of henry kissinger. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you have made a perfectly justified confession. the same may be said of russia - though probably in fewer cases than in the united states of america. the relationship between the two great powers and international law is also somewhat divided. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the iraq war was clearly against international law. and russia's actions in abkhazia and south ossetia were also against international law. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. in both cases, mr zaleski - and i say this because i appreciate you very much - you are absolutely right in saying that it is a fascinating and powerful country, but unpredictable. this is true for the united states as much as it is for russia, and we must respond to it. in both cases, however, i think it would be wrong to break off the dialogue. we have not said, even after the clear violation of international law in the iraq war - a massive violation with thousands of deaths - that we are now breaking off the dialogue with the united states. we have, of course, continued to talk to the united states. i'm not comparing the internal structure of the united states and russia. it's all about international behavior. president sarkozy is absolutely right and i thank him very much for his pragmatic, clear policy: we must have this dialogue! secondly, we must strengthen our neighbours, especially when they are our neighbours at the same time. we must give ukraine and georgia the strength to deal with their difficult neighbour, russia. but we must also ensure that the behaviour is rational, and saakashvili's behaviour was not rational! and mr yushchenko's behaviour towards mrs timoshenko, for example, is also not rational! we have to make sure our neighbors are behaving rationally. if they do that and have our strength behind them, then the neighbours will also fight back against a russia that is trying to play the great power again.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the debate so far has shown very clearly that we have a lot of points of contact with russia, and many of these points of contact have probably also been points of conflict: the situation in the caucasus, georgia, the question of energy has been raised several times, and recently here again, and rightly so, the question of common interests in the financial crisis. my request to the commission, to the council - and this has been raised a little by president sarkozy - is that europe should step out of its role as a permanent reaction and try to bring a number of issues of importance to us into the conversation actively and proactively on its own initiative. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process.
i would like to ask you specifically about one point. we have had the problem in the past that we have always been very restrictive, even though we have always stressed the need for skilled immigration from a european point of view. is there any serious comparison of the attractiveness of the american green card and similar schemes with what we want to do in europe?
mr president-in-office of the council, the coordination of aid measures is one aspect, the other aspect is whether it remains visible to the european citizens that the european union is involved here, that it is not just the member states, but that europe is actually doing something for the individual people on the ground.
my question concerns the compilation of these statistics. we have always noticed that in european statistics the various countries are mentioned first, such as germany, spain, poland, etc., but never or very rarely the whole of europe, the europe of the twenty-seven, which is then compared with america, india or china. here too, we should make sure that the europe of 27 is visible in these statistics, because volunteering is of particular importance to us.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. what we lack is simply a system of incentives, and here we need commissioner kovács. in this area, would it not be sensible to consider reducing depreciation periods, granting exemptions or paying premiums? i would imagine that the european union would also support support in this area, for example through the cip programme, the competition and innovation programme. we have the intelligent energy programme, we have the seventh research framework programme. i would suggest that we should take action here, on the one hand in the area of tax relief and on the other in the area of support. there is enormous potential here, and i would encourage us to start a new initiative here.
in writing. the environment committee's proposal to make energy efficiency and emissions standards mandatory as procurement criteria for road vehicles by local and regional authorities fails to respect the principle of subsidiarity in some respects and, above all, involves an intolerable burden of red tape. for example, the 'clean and energy-efficient road transport' label is too complex to establish and manage to be of much use. the compromise proposed is, after all, a great simplification of this bureaucratically overburdened system. in this context, it is particularly welcome that member states are again given more flexibility in their implementation. but the de minimis principle, whereby vehicles below a certain threshold are not covered by this award process, also relieves small municipalities of a huge burden. overall, however, the question remains whether the expected role model effect on the private car market is actually being achieved to the extent expected, given that the market share of public procurement for commercial vehicles is only 6%.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the committee on transport and tourism has discussed the offer to look at these machines. then there were the first photographs that showed what really comes out as an image. it became clear that this was a technical argument to slide through the door. but there was no impact assessment - as i said, i do not want to go into that now - as for example in the case of truck rear-view mirrors, where almost every entrepreneur in europe was asked whether he agreed that there should be a different type of rear-view mirror. but on a matter of such importance, nothing! that was not deemed necessary. the images we've seen resemble a slightly distorted black-and-white photograph of a naked body, which is perfectly clear. and it's not cheating to tell you today that i have concerns. because a nude body image is a very private matter, and i want people to have the ability to choose whether they're seen naked. you say it's all voluntary. yeah, we've seen that before. anyone who refuses is already a suspect. the next step is the obligatory introduction, and i dare not imagine the next one. i think that's a recipe that really can't be applied. it will be mandatory in a few years, the security people have always found arguments for such a thing. and the next step is then guaranteed to be storage, even if that is currently denied. but we know that what is technically feasible for security people is being done. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the member states will blame the union and not themselves for the introduction.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all know that temporary agency work is increasing enormously in the european union. this is positive on the one hand because it creates many jobs, but because of the very different national regulations, this has generally had rather negative effects up to the present time, especially for workers, because it leads to wage dumping through low wages and thus also to the displacement of workers who are local. and it ultimately leads to distortions of competition, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, and benefits those who hire as many of these temporary workers as possible on the cheapest terms. the aim must therefore be to regulate temporary agency work throughout the european union in the directives and, in particular, to ensure that temporary agency workers are treated on an equal footing with the employees of the contracting companies in terms of their working and employment conditions. this would be in the interests of the european economic centre, especially in the interests of workers, and would prevent distortion of competition for businesses.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the internet is a very positive invention in itself, but it is increasingly being used by criminals, and this is leading to one of the ugliest crimes, the trafficking of child pornography, growing exponentially. if you think about the fact that in the last year alone, there's been a 16 percent increase in the amount of this kind of material being shared online, and that over 20,000 children are being abused in a year to create this kind of imagery, you can see the scale. our goals must be zero tolerance for child abuse, harsh penalties for offenders and maximum protection for children when using the internet. i welcome the package of measures that the european parliament has been campaigning for, ranging from reporting points to the installation of blocking systems and training to the strengthening of the police and the traceability of payments. this report by the european parliament is very important because it sends a very strong signal for the protection of the most vulnerable in our society, for the protection of children.
in writing. −the eu has taken the side of pristina in kosovo, but insists on georgia's territorial integrity in the caucasus conflict. brussels must finally clarify whether it is for or against the right of self-determination of peoples. the eu must not be constantly measured by double standards, must not always represent only us interests, but must play the role of a neutral mediator. but the financial crisis also calls the eu's self-concept into question. the european union has proved itself to be an instrument of unrestrained liberalism in recent decades. the focus was not on the citizen, but on the ruthless implementation of neoliberal ideas. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the financial interests of the union. this could be used to feed a safety fund to help banks in times of crisis.
in writing. −there are no controls on the internet, but children and young people are seldom aware of the dangers that lurk there. shockingly, a british study found that three out of four children have already stumbled across pornographic or violent images on the internet. we must protect our young people from this, but also from the costly exploitation of the internet, from what is known as 'cyberbullying' and 'cyber-growing'. the latter is particularly important if the internet, thanks to its anonymity, is no longer a haven for paedophile offenders. we can only do this by combining a number of measures, not forgetting internetcafés. the present report is a step in the right direction, but it is not enough. that's why i voted for him.
in writing. −i am in favour of promoting environmentally friendly and energy-efficient vehicles in public tenders. it is welcome that when buying a road vehicle, public authorities and certain companies must take into account not only the purchase price but also the energy and environmental impacts over its lifetime, including energy consumption, co2 emissions and other pollutant emissions.
in writing. −if you look at the situation with passenger data agreements with the us, there is a worrying development in the name of fighting terrorism. under this agreement, passengers' personal data such as telephone numbers, e-mail, etc. are transmitted and stored for years. the protection of personal data is not guaranteed. we must not allow any more of these data breaches.
in writing. −it is not acceptable that public contracts must be awarded on an eu-wide basis and then the obligation to pay the minimum wage attached to the contract is annulled by the ecj as incompatible with the posting of workers and services directive. the eu is showing its true face as a purely economic community, feeding the socially weak with peanuts and empty words. it is high time that the eu responded to the cries for help from citizens, ignored for too long, and tried to close loopholes and disagreements. the present report is intended to be at least a tentative attempt at this, but it leaves too much room for possible abuse, which is why i abstained.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! the conclusion of the association agreement is undoubtedly a positive step for both sides - for the european union and for bosnia and herzegovina - but only under certain conditions. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption, and has been active in the fight against organised crime, including the use of child pornography. we all know that the dayton agreement, while bringing peace on the one hand, has also created a very complicated structure with different governments and parliaments, and once again, it takes account of ethnic groups. that means you have 10 additional departments and you need 13 home secretaries to pass an asylum law for this country. the political process is probably no longer too complex. these difficulties have become apparent in the police reform. it took years to remove the barriers and to finally get this police reform as one of the conditions. for me, this means that bosnia and herzegovina must develop a will to cooperate beyond the existing borders and must itself implement reforms at all levels. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to take part in the negotiations on the accession of bosnia-herzegovina to the european union. the european union is committed to the development of the region and to the promotion of the economic and social development of the region. i therefore call on bosnia and herzegovina to overcome the internal barriers which still exist. the european union has shown with the association agreement that it was and is ready to help. but the real progress must come from within the country itself.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking mrs doris pack very warmly for her report and, above all, for her commitment. i would also like to reject the accusations of some colleagues who see bosnia and herzegovina solely as an alleged or actual islamic terrorist network. this is absolutely unfair and it is also significant that the member who asked the commission what it was doing about it has already left the chamber. how seriously the problem is being taken! commissioner rehn also said that 2009 could be a decisive year for the balkan region. i hope that macedonia will start negotiating, that croatia will conclude negotiations, that montenegro, serbia and possibly albania will perhaps be candidates. then you ask yourself: what is happening to bosnia and herzegovina? it would be a great pity for the many committed people in this country if there were no opportunity for a leap forward. i would like to stress what mrs pack said: the country must be made functional. some colleagues have said: the country must not be taken hostage by mr dodik, mr silajdžić or anyone else. we have to start from the status quo, including the entities, but we have to make reforms. the conditions must be created for the country to join the european union, and it is clear that only the whole country can join the european union. as for the high commissioner, i can only agree with what he said. it is not that the country no longer needs someone to look after the european maturity. but this task will probably not be able to be carried out by the high commissioner for much longer, and the european special representative will have to take his place. it is a task for the european union to carry out together with the support of this parliament - and in particular of doris pack and others who will continue to be committed to this country. we want to see soon that this country too has the opportunity to join the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to add my thanks to the rapporteur, mrs doris pack, who has already been rightly thanked by many colleagues. we have someone with her who hopefully doesn't shed his blood, but actually has a lot of blood in this room. i am pleased with her and with the colleagues who have said that there has been some progress, including in the area of police cooperation. this is important so that real life on the ground can function in a reasonable way. i believe, however, that we must also keep on reminding our interlocutors in bosnia and herzegovina that they themselves still have a lot to contribute, probably more than is currently being done in some areas. the internal cooperation, the willingness to this internal cooperation between the ethnic groups is something we must constantly demand. it's not right for everyone to try to go their own way. the integration of the western balkans into regional cooperation is also important.
commissioner, you have indicated that the commission wants and must change and improve its rules on administrativepermanence. the commission has also been working on a number of other proposals, including the introduction of a new system of national accounts. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commissioner has just pointed out that corruption is of course also a criminal offence which must be prosecuted by the national judicial authorities. are most of the cases here - i assume - belgian court proceedings, or are there also criminal proceedings for corrupt behaviour of officials in other member states?
we know that the cost is passed on to the passengers. for this reason, it is also necessary to make a distinction. the difference between using a train today - the tgv or another high-speed railway - and using an airplane is not very great. if you look at the security arrangements at railway stations and those at airports, there might be a way to approximate. do you think it is possible to create equal legislation here?
dear colleague and friend tajani! we are naturally pleased to have the opportunity to ask questions here, particularly on public transport in relation to tenders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, is there any intention of creating uniform management systems throughout europe? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
i have to say, madam president, the ombudsman's work is undoubtedly fundamentally positive. but you have one blind spot, and that is the administration of the european parliament. in april 2007, for example, mr eduardo bugalho, who is one of the secretaries-general here, promised a job to a member of staff, mr martin ehrenhauser. and then there was an intervention by the secretary general harald rømer, who was quite new to the office at the time, and suddenly there was no more of that post, and you were comforted, comforted, comforted. it affected me. i think i am the only member of this parliament who has no parliamentary staff at all. instead of picking up on this, look away. but you yourself speak of confidence in the institutions of the european union. i am elected by 14% of all austrians and cannot work here in the same way as almost all other colleagues. then you should not be surprised that criticism is increasing, and that in austria in particular criticism of the eu as it is not of europe is exploding.
i have to say, madam president, the distance between the european union and its citizens must not become as great as it has become. we have to see that it is reduced. in this context, the ombudsman has an important role to play. especially when and where he makes them good. the main point is that we must expect the ombudsman to be committed and to be impartial. it's about not setting expectations that are too high for anyone to meet. but on the other hand, it is also a question of actually addressing any shortcomings in the administration of the european institutions and, where possible, finding reasonable solutions that can then provide security and satisfaction to the citizens. the ombudsman's experience has shown that he is serious about this task and does it well. we can hope that this will continue to be the case and thank him and the rapporteur for this report.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the ombudsman for the opportunity to speak to me. i'll take that. i have in fact come to speak because mr cashman has made some attacks and allegations which i would like to reject in the strongest possible terms. they just show how nervous people are when it comes to more transparency. but you, mr ombudsman, are in favour of greater transparency! i can only encourage you to stick to it, including travel costs and the like, where the majority of this parliament is letting you down. i think you are on the right track, mr ombudsman!
in writing. - as regards amendment no 4 to the lewandowski report, i would point out that the pse group has not, by mistake, co-signed this motion, but has given it its full support.
in writing. - i am voting for the directive on airport charges by ulrich stockmann. this report will make it more difficult to abuse and will reduce distortions of competition. this prevents airports from abusing their dominant position and imposing excessive charges on airlines. i think it is right that the level of fees should be more differentiated in future and that the new system should also serve the customer. in any event, it is important for the airport user to know how and on what basis the charges are calculated. it is also important that the directive establishes uniform rules on the mutual information obligation, transparency requirements and the methodology for calculating fees.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i think everyone in this house knows that the car industry in the european union has come to a very difficult situation - partly in connection with the crisis in the development of the american car industry. i therefore think it would be quite sensible for the commission to tell us how it sees this crisis, what solutions it sees - since it is also a question of state aid - what competition rules are to be respected, etc. i think that's an important question. but i would like to add this: we are not concerned with the environmental objectives for the car industry being weakened or postponed. we insist that these environmental objectives be implemented and enforced, but at the same time we should also be able to discuss the economic problems of the car industry with a representative of the commission. that is the concern we have, and i hope we will get broad support for it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not want to go into detail here, but i think the honourable member - and we understand each other very well - knows very well that the social democratic party of europe is very critical of the coalition and in particular of mr slota's party. but now the time has come to arrange things in such a way that both countries, especially after the very welcome meeting between prime minister fico and prime minister gyurcsány, will think of resolving the problems together peacefully and not giving the floor to the radicals. we agree that the radicals must not be allowed to spread new poison. the same is true of the verbal radicalism of mr slota, but it is also true of the hungarian guard in particular. i ask that both countries and both prime ministers and all the parties in this room work to ensure that the radicals are not allowed to speak, that the radicals' border blockades are prevented and that peaceful people who want to protect and promote minorities are allowed to speak.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the current 10th anniversary of economic and monetary union is not a cause for celebration at the moment. we are desperately trying to prevent a breakdown in our financial systems with a multitude of bailouts, and in doing so we are just succeeding in patching up the breaches. the banks are taking billions of dollars in government money and at the same time paying out bonuses and profits, and the average citizen is many times the fool. his tax money ends up in the bank, threatening him with unemployment and possibly loss of savings and pension funds. in the midst of this dilemma, there are now voices which say that we must at last ensure that european companies are not soon owned by non-european owners, such as the chinese. the sale of europe has been going on for years, with cross-border leasing and similar machinations. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. we must therefore ensure that the mistakes made by the new members in connection with the euro are not repeated and that no further risky financial games can be played with public money, that is, with the people's wealth. we need not only strict eu-wide supervision of dubious financial structures, but we must also demand a solid contribution from the profiteers of speculative transactions. above all, the eu must reject unfettered capitalism as a matter of principle, and instead protect citizens from the brutal greed for profit and the negative effects of uncontrolled globalisation.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the previous speaker made a mistake in his choice of subject, because everything he said had little to do with the euro. the euro and enlargement are the most visible successes of the european union in the last decade. but we must also note that without the maastricht criteria, without the stability and growth pact, without the european central bank and without the political will, without the willingness to assume european responsibility, this success story could not have been written. we are talking about cooperation and coordination. yes, we need more cooperation and coordination. but that requires that we have more trust in each other. we need more cooperation and coordination, also in the light of more europe in the field of economic practices. the european central bank, the fed and the bank of japan have helped to keep monetary crises out of europe in the face of many crises. i would therefore like to reiterate that there can be no summit without the representation of the euro zone and without the representation of the european central bank. the financial crisis shows us that the euro has helped us to prevent currency speculation and to prevent it from occurring in the eurozone. the reactions in denmark, the united kingdom, sweden and hungary show us very clearly what we have on the euro. the european union must be represented in the imf, the world bank and the global financial market system in accordance with its strengths. we call on all those who are now calling for global rules to do the same in europe and in their member states as they are asking others to do!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when do the citizens need european solidarity? when does the member state need the solidarity of the european union? of course, first and foremost in the event of disaster. this is the question i asked in connection with the vote on the fourth cohesion report this spring. mr president, we are discussing today the adaptation of the solidarity fund to better prepare us for the challenges of the future and to enable rapid and effective aid. the commission and parliament have agreed on the objectives of this legislative initiative in accordance with their resolutions. in july of this year i took the liberty of asking the council for a statement on the state of play. the council has informed me that, unlike parliament, it does not see the need for an initiative at the present time. the council's position is incomprehensible to me, given that a former french commissioner and minister has stressed the need for adaptation in his report. i would therefore like to wish all members a committee chairman like mr galeote, who is not prepared to accept the disregard of a parliamentary decision. i would like to express my sincere thanks to him. i would urge the french presidency to reconsider its position in the interests of the citizens of europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is high time and i would like to thank the rapporteur very much. i think that is one of the key issues that holds our europe together, and it is also a question of solidarity. it is high time that the member states finally started to act on this. the eu must provide financial support to those organisations that help us in an emergency. many member states have experienced devastating natural disasters in recent years. i am also thinking of the forest fires that have been repeatedly occurring in greece, just last year, or the floods in central europe in 2002, which also affected austria very much. such disasters can rob people of their economic foundation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the member states alone do not have the resources. it is also important to note that some countries are more prone to these natural disasters. i'm thinking about austria again. people still speak with great gratitude about how they received rapid help from the eu back then. the european solidarity fund is designed not only to help finance reconstruction but also to support rescue organisations. the work of the volunteer fire brigade, the red cross and other voluntary organizations is invaluable. it is hard to imagine how much money would be spent if this service were not provided on a voluntary basis. these organisations also provide emergency assistance and are an essential part of the social fabric of rural areas. there is therefore an urgent need to maintain and extend these support structures. i hope that we can reach an agreement quickly now so that we do not have to regret it when disasters come again and we cannot act quickly enough.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the legislative proposal and also the rapporteur for the own-initiative report. the reforms of 2003 and 2004 were important steps in the process of reforming the cap. the cap's thorough review is not a fundamental reform but another important step towards securing a modern, multifunctional and competitive common agricultural policy. the priorities have not changed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the importance of milk production has already been mentioned, especially for mountain areas where green farming is often the only option. we're going to keep jobs here, not just the landscape, and that's just as important to me. preparing for soft landing after 2015 is an essential aspect for me. i am currently opposed to a general increase in the milk quota because i think that is problematic. i think in a time when we have this high milk surplus, we should be careful. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the stabilization of the second pillar without the hollowing out of the first pillar is an essential aspect. we can only welcome the strengthening of article 68 thanks to the freedom of decision in the member states. i am also pleased that an agreement has been reached on a milk fund, also in connection with production in mountain and lessfavoured areas. in conclusion, i would like to say this: i very much hope that the council and the commission will find a compromise in the coming days. i am convinced that the common agricultural policy will be further developed to ensure that sustainable multifunctional agricultural production continues in all regions of the eu.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a question on the rules of procedure. we have now voted on a large number of joint amendments tabled by the european people's party and the socialist party. now we always have pes/epp-ed on our voting lists. it's different in the alphabet. is there any rule of procedure that justifies the natural preference of the socialists? (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - in the context of this report and the legal proceedings of the belgian authorities, it must be clearly stated that the whole procedure, particularly the judicial one, is a purely politically motivated criminal prosecution of the former leader of the flemish belang party, frank vanhecke. vanhecke received this complaint two days after he took over the party leadership. it is also clear that the six months that remain until the european elections are intended to politically tarnish the candidacy of vlaams belang. furthermore, according to the belgian constitution, it would be legally necessary to prosecute the author of the article, since he is known, and not the publisher of the medium. i therefore strongly believe that a politically motivated prosecution should not be used as a pretext for waiving the parliamentary immunity of frank vanhecke and that this witch persecution by the belgian judicial authorities should be condemned in the strongest possible terms. a similar situation occurred in 2003 when the greens launched a criminal prosecution against daniel cohn-bendit, but the committee rejected it because it was suspected of political motivation. the situation is the same, if not more so, and i can only vote against it.
in writing. − we need fair treatment of financial and credit customers, with long limitation periods and reversal of the burden of proof. the risks and costs have to be visible at first sight and also comparable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and now citizens are facing a wave of forced conversions of their foreign currency loans or are being asked to pay for increased refinancing costs of banks in an immoral way. in this situation, to declare the citizen lapidar to be too stupid and to demand, so to speak, a teaching subject of 'financial general education' is a slap in the face. especially since not even self-appointed financial gurus could see through the various speculative entanglements. the report calls instead for more competition between lenders for greater market efficiency, thus continuing the fairy tale of the self-regulating market. i can only strongly reject this report.
in writing. - our tax systems are very complex and almost only for specialists. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the tax system is not distorted by the introduction of new taxes, and that the tax system is not distorted by the introduction of new taxes. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. the proposed project seems to be in that spirit, and i have therefore voted in favour of the lulling report.
i have to say, madam president, mr president of the commission, you said at the end of your speech that we must send a clear signal to the electorate. i agree with you completely. but when i look at the programme, it often appears with the headline: "keep it up". this may be true in some areas, but in some areas - particularly in the area we are discussing today - it cannot be. we have to send the signal . we have learned from the crisis and are acting differently than we have done so far. if you put in the sentence 'europe benefits from open societies and open markets, but rules must apply to both', that is also true, but perhaps not clear enough. we need rules to ensure that europe benefits from open societies and open markets. this must be clear and this has not always been the commission's line. you speak here in your, if i may say so, work of a sudden crisis of confidence. paul nyrup rasmussen has been warning for a long time about what could come. martin schultz has also been pointing this out for a long time. so the crisis of confidence was not so sudden. but some in the commission have said that we do not need to regulate this, that everything will be fine, the market will regulate everything. that's not how it was, and that's what needs to change! (applause from the centre) secondly, one area which is still not covered by this programme is an area of great importance to citizens, namely public and community services. i say this precisely because a crisis has now arisen in some countries in connection with the postal service. it is not the fault of europe or the european commission alone, but it is the result of a certain attitude which says that the market should govern in all areas and should be open to all sides, and that is why some postal administrations have been given the incentive to seek high profits elsewhere rather than to provide services to consumers, to citizens. this is the wrong way. i would have liked to have at least heard a clear statement at the end of your programme that you stand up for these public services and say how you should be treated regionally and locally, and that not everything is market-driven. i would like to end by saying that we have a new american government. i ask you, mr president, the commissioner and all the others to use the time and the next few weeks to work with this government to ensure that we achieve a real partnership for a european, but also a global, social market economy. take advantage of the opportunity of a new american president! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, the eu is currently enjoying increased support and confidence as states and citizens seek protection behind its walls in the hope that they will be strong enough to avert the financial and economic crisis. the size of the internal market and the euro will undoubtedly give the union a better chance of coping with the crisis. but in any case it has duties, and it has duties towards the sovereign, towards the citizen, by protecting him from unlimited greed and the consequences of globalisation. the answer to the crisis must not be to give billions of dollars in loans to the car industry alone, but also to support small and mediumsized enterprises, which are the biggest employers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the eu must therefore ensure that citizens do not soon wake up in a europe without the last remnants of their national wealth, in a europe of mass immigration!
i have to say, madam president, the economically weakest are always the main victims of financial crises. the opaque financial services products, whose quality was no longer rated by rating agencies, the lack of transparency and the misconception that the market regulates itself, only served to foster the casino mentality. unfortunately, it was also the commission which had vehemently refused to consider legislative measures to regulate the financial market and which had shown itself absolutely resistant to consulting the european parliament. but now it is a matter of overcoming this today and drawing the political lessons from it. the workers who lose their jobs today and suffer large losses in their pensions as a result of the risky investments of the pension funds are the ones who pay more. the priority now, as the situation is analysed, is to put in place a contingency plan, improve control mechanisms and damage reduction, but also to ensure access to credit for emerging and developing countries in order to restore sustainable growth. last but not least, the big sceptics about the need for a higher eu budget must have understood that we need to build a stronger instrument as a precaution to be able to balance crises better.
in writing. the legislative and work programme of the european commission is particularly pleased with the measures planned to combat the economic crisis in europe. in the coming year, european policy must be able to present long-term prospects for the eu and, with the involvement of citizens, limit the adverse effects of the financial market crisis on the european economic situation as a whole. the transition to the real economy is often delayed. in addition to national measures, europe must take action to minimise the negative impact. the year 2009 will be decisive in the fight against climate change. europe will have the chance next year to position itself as a strong international partner in climate action. the eu's negotiating position for the copenhagen climate conference is not only a priority in the environmental field, but also has cross-links with other policy areas. the european community can be a leader in this area, not only for the european continent but also for global climate action. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. although the health check of the cap is being carried out this year, agricultural concerns must continue to be a major issue in european policy.
mr president of the council! the problems with christian churches are not only in turkey itself but also in the north-east of the divided island of cyprus. is there any discussion at council level on this subject and, in particular, is there any action being taken towards turkey to ensure that it takes its undoubted influence in this area in the right direction?
mr president of the council! i was wondering how you see the role of the un in these matters? do you think the un would have a role in these areas?
i think one of the biggest problems we have is double taxation in europe, which naturally leads to unexpected additional burdens in the area of taxation, particularly in the area of social security. i wonder if we can expect an initiative from the french presidency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the proposal to amend the regulation on benefits for non-euro area member states to raise the ceilings from 12 to 25 billion when they are in serious payment difficulties comes at the last moment. the essential condition for the operation of these ad hoc measures will be that the eu does not make the same mistakes as the imf in counterclaims. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. we are all too familiar with the old neoliberal shock therapy for crisis-hit countries. we know all too well who profited from it. i hope that the example of hungary will be followed by the eu instrument to achieve better and more lasting stabilisation. the eu must remember that it was the conservative opposition that prevented the hungarian prime minister from taking steps to stabilise and reform hungary. the throttling of social spending, which is not in itself too high, will certainly not achieve the stabilization of hungary on its own, but will only help the anti-european right-wing populism. yes, hungary has come under pressure, not least because of the rapid depreciation of the forint, for which hedge funds are also held responsible. the imf has shown iceland that it is still imposing shock therapy, for example through high policy interest rates, to the detriment of the economy - in this case, the icelandic economy. i would like to ask the commissioner to take into account that i do not want my neighbouring country, hungary, to be plunged into social conflict by such corrective measures in the event of counterclaims. hungary needs confidence-building and supporting measures from the european union which will ultimately help not only hungary but all of us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think this debate is coming at the right time. i would remind you that hungary is the country that has used the budget deficit the most: minus 5%. this shows that the stability in this country has, of course, a political background. it doesn't make sense that in the future we leave the risk of some businesses to the state - and ultimately to all taxpayers. i agree with mr ettl that we cannot put the risk of hedge funds and derivatives on the taxpayers, because that would reduce their purchasing power. but that is precisely what we need in hungary, namely, greater purchasing power. we need people to invest there again, companies to invest, which means we need tax cuts there so that investment can be made accordingly, not just for the companies but above all for the workers. i think we're making the right conclusions here. it is crucial that we give allowances for energy efficiency measures, for example, that we give investment bonuses, that we make corresponding progressive depreciation. i would ask commissioner kovács, who is from hungary, to take initiatives at european level.
the commission has already done so. the first signs of the crisis in the automobile sector, such as the first decline in orders, were probably not taken seriously enough. at first, you may only have that it's only the fuel-eating american cars that are affected. but if you have heard from car dealers, you will know that diesel cars have been considered difficult to sell in the eu for months. the european union is not surprised by the growing whirlwind of problems, for it has been instrumental in the decline of this once flourishing industry, for example by a flood of regulations that have been imposed on the automobile sector. but companies need a stable, predictable legal framework to plan. if the eu keeps changing the rules here, it may eventually ruin every industry. the continuous turning of the controls on diesel fuel and, most recently, the biofuel adventure are also worth mentioning. the eu's planned 40 billion loans are not enough to solve the crisis. it must create a framework for all sectors that can be planned and predicted in the future!
in writing. − the stress of the modern world of work with the new forms of employment contracts and job insecurity, and the lack of reconciliation between work and family, are leaving their mark. statistics show that mental health problems are currently one of the main causes of early retirement. of course, job insecurity has also led to an increase in bullying. health problems, such as back pain, are also increasing. in recent years, there has been a further increase in the number of cases where workers have been dismissed for sickness or accidents at work. we have a lot of problems to deal with. to keep up with the latest developments, we need statistical data. i have voted for the scheele report in that sense.
in writing. − the payments from the agricultural fund are intended to support our farmers in order to ensure the ecological and agricultural good condition of the agricultural land. while food produced in the eu is subject to strict conditions, goods are imported at bargain prices which are not subject to these conditions. in addition, milk quotas have been increased and are set to expire in 2015, leading to a decline in milk prices and putting small farmers in a difficult situation. finally, food chains like hofer receive eu subsidies, which increase the pressure on local farmers by using milk as lockware, for example. the main sufferers are small farmers in rural areas who are dependent on milk production and do not have the possibility of producing it on a large scale. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the excessive deficit. this must change, or the continuing mass deaths of farmers will lead to our being dependent on food imports. our farmers depend on subsidies, which is why i voted for the santos report.
in writing. − of course, it is important to coordinate different policy areas, but this cannot be limited to funding. in the eu, one feels that one hand does not know what the other is doing. we are encouraging the transport of goods across europe and then promoting environmental measures to cushion the negative effects. or we can think of promoting tobacco growing while at the same time taking measures to curb tobacco consumption. the same applies to rural areas. on the one hand, there are extra funding points, on the other hand, thanks to maastricht and the unlimited zeal for liberalization, all infrastructure outside the conurbations is being reduced and rural regions are increasingly cut off. if post-liberalisation comes as promised, for example in austria, in a decade outside the cities the nearest post office will be 20 kilometres away. rural areas are increasingly becoming the seat of the elderly. the elderly are thus increasingly cut off from the important means of contact. infrastructure cuts are particularly affecting not only the elderly but also the socially disadvantaged and the disabled. i voted in favour of this report, hoping that it will provide a basis for better coordinated strategies in the future and that it will be able to counteract these negative developments.
mr president, commissioner, representatives of the council! if we follow the debate here among our colleagues, we note polarizations. the right fears mass illegal immigration mr romagnoli is no longer here to continue the discussion. the left is worried that illegal immigrants can't be employed. we do not want both, neither mass illegal immigration nor the employment of illegals and thus the legalisation of illegals. what we are really trying to achieve with the blue card is a step towards a controlled immigration of highly qualified workers into individual member states of the european union. with this blue card and with these uniform regulations for residence and work permits, we are creating precisely this instrument which will allow the member states to react and then bring in highly qualified workers when there is a real need for these workers in the individual member states. what we are also doing is creating uniform rules for issuing these blue cards. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. i am pleased that the council has included my proposal in the implementing rules, namely that this blue card should also be marked with the state with the seal of the state which issued the blue card and to which the work permit and the residence permit apply. i can say that austria has a red, white, red and blue card, and the other countries have a similar system. i also welcome the incentive to start working in other member states after three years, provided the conditions are met and there is a need. the regulation that the blue card expires when there is no longer any need is also important, and this is shown by the fact that there has been continuous unemployment for more than six months. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to propose to the council that the national authorities should be required to report when such unemployment begins. otherwise, there would have been no six-month monitoring. in conclusion, i would like to say that this blue card is an instrument for the member states to react flexibly when necessary. this blue card is an opportunity for the european union to be and to remain an attractive economic location. it is an incentive for the top performers not to go to the usa, canada or australia, but to choose the european union as their place of residence and work - at least for a certain period of time. i believe that with this blue card we have taken a good step towards a controlled immigration according to the needs, opportunities and needs of the member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union will need more top-level professionals from third countries within the next 20 years. other countries have been exploiting this potential for years in a way that is not comparable. the eu's rules on this are balanced and are designed to prevent a brain drain from third countries. the member states shall determine the needs. this all sounds very reasonable, only and this is now the other side with the financial and economic crisis we are scratching at a recession. unemployment will rise across europe and some member states are already trying to put the brakes on the free movement of workers within the european union. in this situation, when we also have to change industrial policy because of the environmental issue, would it not be more sensible to rely on more and better training programmes for top-level workers with a high potential for innovation? we must concentrate all our efforts on this issue, rather than attracting top-level staff from third countries. that alone will be too little for our future in the long run.
madam vice president! information that is timely requires quick decision-making. the problem is that, in the course of the commission's work, the institution of the collegiate body usually takes a very long time to set this apparatus in motion. are there any special rules here for events like the ones we're facing now? in other cases, it often takes a very long time for the commission as a collegiate body to reach a conclusion.
mr vice president! i would like to take this brief opportunity to ask you two questions. firstly, you said that the political environment for such a regulation was not yet fully in place. my question is, where are the biggest obstacles? are they with individual states or are they with large lobbies? what is preventing the commission from doing something about this? my second question is: more and more studies show that smoking in the car is very dangerous. on the one hand, it's very unhealthy, and on the other hand, it's distracting and tiring. i would like to ask the commission whether it is considering doing something about this at european level.
madam vice president! paper is patient, but it is increasingly becoming clear that it is not very informative. in information policy, the electronic media - television and the internet - are the ones to be preferred. so my question is: is this trend also reflected in current politics? secondly, i was pleased to see that local and regional television stations were to be involved in this. this is more sensible than covering the deficit of the large public television companies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the attractiveness of researchers also depends on the net income they receive. is there any joint consideration with commissioner kovács to develop a proposal that researchers can get their income tax free and that donations to research institutions are also tax free or could be claimed as operating expenditure? in america, they have this system. couldn't we do a comparative study here, so we can give incentives here too?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i welcome the debate because it raises awareness and not fear. we must act now, not tomorrow. demographic change has its causes, consequences and challenges. the population is declining, the number of people in work is declining, we are living longer. the children born in these minutes have the chance to live to be 100 years old. every other child will be. people are getting older and fewer children, unfortunately. the age structure and therefore the population structure is changing dramatically. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we are an aging continent. jean-claude juncker once said: 'if we do not quickly and sustainably reform and future-proof our social, pension and health systems, we will go from being the winners of globalisation to being the losers.' what can be done? a lot! the aim of the project is to promote the integration of the family and the workplace. we are not pushing people out of the workforce. new forms of care, childcare, mobile services, such as food on wheels, are required. the financing of care must be separated from social assistance in all member states and made a matter of solidarity. we have an educational challenge. we should aim to become the most child- and people-friendly continent in the world. the allocation of childcare time is 80% of the carers are family members. equal pay for equal work. there's a lot to do. the causes of our problems are manifold.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to express my gratitude to the court of auditors for the work it has done in presenting the 2007 annual report to parliament. in a tradition of annual reports that are getting better, this report is, in my opinion, the best the court of auditors has produced so far. it is even more meaningful, even more colourful - let's put it this way - and even clearer. ladies and gentlemen of the court of auditors, you too have resisted the temptation to bring in a little populism this year. i have noted this with satisfaction. we will now have to check whether the commission's work in 2007 with european taxpayers' money was satisfactory or not, on the basis of various special reports and above all on the basis of this report. there have been very encouraging representations so far, especially from the commissioner for the cohesion fund. but the commissioner for research has also indicated that the criticism of this house and the court of auditors in last year's report has fallen on fertile ground. what is also not working is that the member states are avoiding cooperation in the control of the european budget. we have the encouraging example of four member states - denmark, the netherlands, the uk and sweden - which are already actively involved. we are pleased to note that various national audit bodies, such as the german court of auditors, are also beginning to take care of the european money spent in germany at national level, and we hope that this will also be the subject of a political debate. we have been trying to build the bridge in the treaty between article 274 and article 5 with this call for national declarations of assurance since the wynn and mulder reports. i would like to take this opportunity, commissioner kallas, to ask the commission to be more helpful and active in standardizing such reports. this is something that should help your positive attitude to come to light at some point. if we are in our discharge on the quality of the commission's work, we tell the taxpayers whether it worked out or not, in a big way. if we expect professionalism from the other institutions, we must become more professional ourselves. i think it is intolerable and adventurous that there are still debates in this house today about whether or not this committee can continue to be a so-called neutral committee. we cannot allow a control committee to be taken over as a third committee. it's not professional. the time is past when you spent half the year doing a little budget somewhere and the other half in the other budget control committee. we have not even seen all the agencies once. how are we going to stand in front of our taxpayers and say, "we give you the assurance that this worked well. so professionalism from the other institutions, but we as a parliament will also have to make an effort, otherwise we cannot be seen in front of the taxpayers.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. first of all, i would like to thank mr bösch very much. he was one of those who helped to set up olaf and he was very farsighted in his assessment that such an authority is of course also a guarantee for the reputation of the european institutions. this is what we need to get out. we also need a clear, transparent institution, available to the public, which makes it clear what is being done in the field of disinformation, which is mostly coming from outside europe and is not in the interests of europe, and which, on the other hand, clearly and clearly intervenes where there are shortcomings and removes them accordingly. it is therefore important that the supervisory committee safeguards the independence of olaf and, in particular, that the post of director-general can in future also be guaranteed by the court of justice. this allows for independent and objective work. it is also important that the rights of those persons summoned or accused by olaf are clearly and clearly manifested. that goes for our house, too. in the european parliament, it is also necessary to define the rights of individuals accordingly. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. i would also like to congratulate mrs gräßle on her ability and determination to make this extremely difficult dossier a success. i wish her well and hope that this will be implemented soon!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not thank you, colleague rübig, for the flowers! we can be a little proud. it was this committee - and i would also like to remind someone else - it was this parliament's committee on budgetary control, led by the very esteemed diemut theato, which took advantage of this window of opportunity in the spring of 1999 to create this office. we must also remember what the basic principles were. the independence of the investigations, of course, and of course the fact that olaf was always intended to be a temporary body. we are waiting for the day when we will have a european prosecutor and then olaf will no longer be what it is today. we have therefore always insisted on a strong supervisory committee and a strong degree of independence. we had a seminar on this a while ago and we could see that this independence was not really in danger. that is also a compliment to the commission. i fully understand what mr kallas said. it is not easy to implement this hybrid function, which is a bit independent and a bit dependent, and i am therefore very much looking forward to what will be in a consultation paper. it is not, of course, acceptable that some of these guarantors of independence - that is the council - should not take part in this debate at all. it's not gonna work like that. if you can't do anything independently, then the only way to guarantee independence is to get as many people as possible to spin the net, to get everyone to pull a little bit. otherwise, olaf will suddenly be hanging by a thread and will no longer be independent. the three who have to keep a critical distance from olaf - because not everything olaf does is wonderful - are the council, the commission and parliament. if we do not respect these principles, then the success of olaf will be in jeopardy. i thank the rapporteur for her work and hope that we can make progress in good time, as the previous speaker has said.
i have to say, madam president, the fact that the european union is so badly represented in the public eye unfortunately has a lot to do with olaf. i can agree with my predecessor that olaf is neither fish nor meat, and it is characterized by arbitrariness. olaf staff now turn to me and tell me how depressing the situation is, that there are two kinds of measures, that there are no clear guidelines. even an olaf official himself compared olaf's practices to the secret police, i.e. the establishment of an undemocratic institution. the current occasion was, of course, the so-called galvin report, this internal report, which describes a great many practices of members of parliament which, if olaf were to take the same approach, would have led to massive investigations, including against the man who calls himself the father of olaf, herbert bösch. what is happening, including against german mps? what is happening there, among many others? instead of doing what i have done, which is to say, we do something on our own initiative. where there is a clear suspicion of fraud - tax evasion, illegal financing of political parties - olaf stands back and does nothing. this is of course also very much in line with the personal attitude of the current director-general. you are wanted, commissioner. what's going on there is not worthy of a democracy. i've been building and looking and looking for missteps. and it was all for nothing in the end. it is an embarrassment for olaf. where there's a problem, you just look the other way. that is why i believe that not only the structure of olaf, but also the way many eu officials work, and that this form of eu officialdom cannot be carried out in this way, that many eu officials should actually be brought to justice, and that we really need a real democracy at european level, with a separation of powers, and not an olaf like this!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make it quite clear that mr martin, who is now entering, is virtually stating on this one point that olaf should have investigated bösch. that is not appropriate, because it would mean that there is a suspicion of fraud, because i know very well that olaf can only investigate if there is a suspicion of fraud. i ask the bureau to clear this up. i reject that, it's not possible! i hope that mr martin will be dealt with accordingly. it is said here, without any foundation, that olaf should have taken action against mr bösch and other german colleagues. this is not the way to go, and i expect action to be taken here. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i think it is particularly important for olaf to distinguish between disinformation - which is sometimes heavily controlled from outside europe - and on the other hand the bureaucracy of contracts, which are often 50-60 pages long, and the manuals, which are over 600 pages long, where, of course, the most errors occur. we should make it clear that simple and clear rules are of course much easier to comply with than complex and extensive ones. i therefore appeal to the council to implement this improvement in the framework conditions as quickly as possible. we need olaf for transparency and for justice in europe.
i have to say, madam president, i refer to articles 145 and 149, personal comments, which will be three minutes. it's just outrageous what's happening here. olaf is making a charge against me out of thin air, out of its own investigation. this had a massive impact on our electoral success in 2006. the prosecution found a year later that at best there may have been some formal errors that in no way justified any surveys. there was no trial, it was completely shut down. nothing happened at all. what mrs. horrible is doing here is slander, it's the continuous attempt at defamation. this is precisely the instrumentalisation of olaf: if olaf comes to a finding and the national states do not implement it, it is still guilty. this is a real mess! what's the double standard in this mess, mrs. disgusting? that where there are genuine suspicions against members of parliament, against others, there is no investigation at all, nothing is done. this undermines democracy in europe. because you use a secret instrument that is very much under political control, you go against unwanted opponents, you act, and then you always try to hang on to something and stick to really false statements, although even state institutions - and i really appreciate the comparatively independent austrian judiciary - say: there was nothing on it! this is a blow to the face of every voter and a blow to the face of the credibility of europe. if you get elected with 14 percent of the vote and then you get slammed like that, and you keep passing on false facts, then that ruins what you once saw as an integrated and fair possibility. that is the way you are destroying europe, mrs grässle, that is the way democracy is being destroyed!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'd like to take a different approach. the summit comes at a time of growing public confidence in the european union. more than two thirds of the austrian population - and not only them - believe that we can only overcome the crisis with the help of the european union - that is, together. the importance of the single currency, the euro, is becoming more and more aware not only in the euro zone but also outside it. people feel that only together as a continent of europe do we have a role to play and a chance in the world. reducing energy dependence, tackling climate change, overcoming the financial crisis and creating a credible defence, security and foreign policy require greater european unity, determination and capacity for action. we must take this opportunity to respond responsibly to the expectations of the citizens. let us look for a common roadmap for the ratification of the reform treaty. let us create coherent, efficient, professional legislation in response to the financial crisis. let us look for european supervision, the model of the european central bank! let us use the example of climate change legislation to show how the social market economy can function responsibly as a european regulatory model. we don't just have a crisis or a lot of construction sites, we also have an opportunity. let us use it to learn from the mistakes of the past! we knew too much and acted too late or too cowardly. the time has come to take a new step with the citizens.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not only me who finds it difficult to agree with this emerging self-praise of european decision-makers when it comes to dealing with the financial market crisis, because if europe, if the eu were a functioning democracy, then the question of responsibility and how all this could have happened would have to be asked first. it's just not true that all the problems we have right now are a tsunami, something natural, but man-made. with all the regulatory frenzy that characterizes this union, one wonders why no action was taken when banks began to cross national borders to a significant degree. why did you not act, despite warnings, when the derivatives were so creeping in? i remember very well that nobel prize winner joseph stiglitz addressed all these points. there was a silence, there was a taboo. we should start there, because the key to solving the problem in the future lies in recognizing our own mistakes.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. my question is what would you think if iceland and hungary adopted the euro as a second currency? do you think that could solve the problem of these two countries? the second question is: do you think it would be possible to introduce a risk premium on derivatives which would then be used to strengthen the equity of banks? my third question is: do you not think that a reduction in vat would help imports, especially from china and india, accordingly? would it not be more sensible to think about tax reductions for our companies and our employees, to pay investment premiums, to give priority to progressive depreciation and to increase the value of low-value goods by a factor of ten, so that no sham profits are taxed but money stays in the companies and wages can be paid more easily?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to apologize to the house and to the president for being late, because i always advise my colleagues in the group in particular to be punctual. that's why i'm doubly embarrassed. i just want to make one comment. i have heard both of them, mr jouyet and the commissioner. we are in complete agreement on the objectives. the pressure, the insistence of the european union on the member states - and also on the candidates or potential candidates - is not strong enough. the european union has a long history of being a major player in the world economy. it is scandalous that we are still talking about roma camps. i therefore urge the representatives of the council and the commission to do more to admonish the member states and to urge them to finally do their job. the picture is not as rosy as it is sometimes portrayed here. i thank mr cohn-bendit for his tolerance in allowing me to speak.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. let us stay on the ground of reality! you've already considered that we're not voting today. you really should stick to the facts. we in the socialist group fully support the rapporteur and have also voted in committee because we are convinced of the matter. that is what the vice-president of the commission and you have said. but we are not living in an airless space, we are living in a political situation. can you imagine today we just agree with nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing, is not what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, what is, this is not reality. mr president-in-office, you said this was a contribution to peace. do you really think that in the current situation, this is a contribution to peace? unfortunately, the situation may not change. we will agree at some point, although the situation is not serious. but at least you have to send a signal. mr president, the question is still unanswered: how do you think this is being received in the region as a whole? i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter, but i am saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the matter. it is quite clear - our group has always stated this - that any kind of terrorism, whether it is missiles or other attacks, is to be totally condemned. our group has supported this motion by the greens and the gue because we want to send a signal at this stage, at least once, that we simply cannot agree with the situation in the middle east. yes, there will be this cooperation! don't worry, you know very well that there will be this cooperation and that this is not the end of a process, but a clear signal. we want cooperation with israel, but we also want peace in the region and no more oppression of the people!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, there's been a series of emails, but there's also been lobbying from the israeli embassy. that is not why we decided to do so, but because we were firmly convinced that this agreement would not have been appropriate at that time. many of the arguments put forward by colleagues - whether mr kasoulides, mr brok, mr zaleski or others - are quite honourable. i believe that after the differences we have had, it is now time to return to a common position which means support for israel, but at the same time also support for a peace process, for the right to life of the palestinians. that's what we're about, nothing more, nothing less.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have a question for commissioner verheugen: is the commission prepared to create a legal basis for a budget line for the 2009 or 2010 budget? the second question is: could action plans, which are now becoming more likely in the face of the financial crisis, also be preferred because of the current need to support small and medium-sized enterprises, especially now that the financial crisis has made this 'small business act' particularly important? can you imagine us starting an emergency programme in this area?
the over 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises are rightly called the economic backbone of the european union. despite their importance, smes are not yet able to take full advantage of the internal market and are faced with bureaucratic difficulties. the small business act is an important step towards making smes more competitive and giving them the chance to realise their potential. the success of the implementation of the 'better regulation' principle is not the only factor that is crucial. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the entrepreneurship exchange programme is a good approach in this context. the fiscal measures in the small business act are particularly important for the promotion of smes. in the light of the current difficult economic situation, it is essential that smes retain their employees. simplification of procurement, the fight against late payment or facilitation of capital raising and new business creation are effective instruments in this context. overall, the small business act sustainably safeguards the mature european business structure and makes european smes fit to compete in international markets.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe is warming faster than the global average. within a decade, it is known that the damage caused by natural disasters has doubled to almost 14 billion annually. so we need to be very careful about our next steps. this is where we have problems. when we think about exemptions from the emissions trading system, we must not forget that energy companies have shamelessly charged consumers for their free allowances in order to make extra profits. this must not happen again. we also do not need any more rash quick shots like the bio-spray adventure that went wrong. the supposed zero-emission of electric cars is a travesty when the electricity is supplied by coal-fired power stations. i think it is quite absurd in this situation to promote nuclear power as environmentally friendly. if the billions spent on this every year were put into renewable energy, we might not have any energy problems at all and we would certainly be a big step ahead in reducing co2. it is also important to remember that in the long term we must promote public transport and the transfer of goods to rail.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i had the honour to reply on behalf of the group to the proposal for a climate package by president barroso. i said at the time that my group fully supports the climate policy objectives. i'm sticking to that. we can't let that go. but i already pointed out the problem of carbon leakage at that time, and it was clear to me at that time, commissioners, that the commission had done too little in this area. now there's some catching up to do. i thank the presidency for certainly trying to find solutions together with the members of parliament. it is not a question of saying goodbye to the objectives, but of giving those industries which use the most advanced environmentally-oriented technologies a corresponding starting advantage, and not of persuading these industries to disappear from the european union with their jobs and pollution. the benchmark system mentioned above must also be broken down accordingly in a corresponding form. it is also a question of planning security. it is not very sensible to lay down the principle now and then postpone its implementation for years until the commission has worked out the details. companies need planning certainty so that they can invest now. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not in favour of this money disappearing from the treasury. it must be for the protection of the environment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you, mr borloo! they will be fighting unemployment and poverty for months and years to come. that's why we're looking for a reasonable package. we do not need 100% free allocation in the carbon leakage industry, but we need 100% allocation and we need the ex ante benchmarks. for those companies that are not at risk of carbon leakage, i think the 20/20 solution is best, so that we start with 20% auctions and with 20% auctions we also reach the target. we also want to exclude small and mediumsized farms, in particular those with 25 000 tonnes, which should be increased to 50 000 tonnes. so we'd have at least 80% of the smes out there that have only 27% of the co2. we should also try to keep the money in the factories and not tax it and send it abroad. we need the money urgently in the factories to be able to carry out innovation and research. please also ensure that degressive depreciation is possible so that companies can invest in these areas in a timely and rapid manner. we need a formula for international agreement which says: up to 30% and not 30% as an absolute number. we also need a clear attitude on what an international agreement must include. and with heat pumps, i would ask that we make sure that the air-to-air heat pumps are also included, because together with solar energy, we can of course prevent a lot of co2. i also ask that we make international nuclear safety standards binding on the european nuclear industry and that we have independent regulators in europe who can also take part in the decision-making in the other member states to ensure safety here.
in writing. the fourth largest economy in asia is being crippled by the international financial crisis. memories of the asian currency crisis of 1997 are being revived. while the south korean government is now more confident because of its swift action, europe and the united states are also in crisis, making the situation much more serious. nevertheless, the oecd believes that korea will recover in the foreseeable future, boosting the weakening won exports and the stimulus measures will boost domestic demand. the eu-korea economic relationship is therefore likely to remain intact, making it quite sensible to establish certain rules of the game despite the current difficult situation. economic agreements too often protect only the interests of investors, so the eu must ensure that labour rules, social and environmental standards are also taken into account. the report on which the votes were based does not express this clearly enough, which is why i abstained.
in writing. - every tax system is associated with tax fraud. the question is how best to contain it. in any event, all measures must ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises are not burdened with red tape. the first is to tackle tax fraud on a large scale. any improved cooperation is certainly beneficial, as long as it does not lead to the eu taking over the decision-making powers of the member states. the priority must be to achieve a concerted approach among eu countries without fundamentally altering existing systems. i have voted against this report.
in writing. - for many years now, the eu has been committed - at least on paper - to promoting small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). but paper is patient and deeds speak another language. smes still face bureaucratic hurdles, access to funding is still easy for large companies, while smes are almost relegated to the status of applicants. regulatory frenzy often slows down small businesses, while corporations can afford experts to exploit any loophole. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is significant that the european parliament's plenary is not informed of the decision taken by the vienna criminal court some time ago. the vienna criminal court has requested the extradition of, that is, the waiver of the immunity of, mep hannes swoboda. this case is going through the media. it's a felony punishable by up to a year. but here in parliament, you don't hear about it. in my case, however, it was quite different. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that there was no trial, that the judge then recorded it, that it was decided by all the courts, that the waiver of immunity was not appropriate at all, mr president, and you did not inform parliament of that. democracy is something else, mr pöttering!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. they say in times of crisis, people come together. but citizens across europe have long felt that the union is collapsing with the economy against the people. working time was highly stylized as a competitive factor, working and life time were extended, with falling wages and rising cost of living, while profits exploded and executive salaries skyrocketed. while we are talking about extending working hours, cutting hard-won social rights, companies are signing up thousands of workers for short-time work and the spectre of mass layoffs is looming. the former model models, such as the much-vaunted working time accounts which are used up in a matter of weeks, show the limits of flexible working time. once again, the work is being done in two opposite directions. on the one hand, there is a promotion of better work-life balance to improve the declining birth rate, which has been declining for years, and on the other hand, sundays and public holidays are increasingly becoming a normal working day. traditions and family life are inevitably left out. in the current crisis, the little man can already use his savings to pay for the mistakes of the financial world and help the banks. his pensions are at risk, and soon he may even have to vacate his job, while the managers stay. european citizens will measure the eu, among other things, by how far it can deliver social security. the eu must therefore decide whether to put economic interests first or to put people first. in this context, we may also have to consider whether turkey's accession could not be stopped before it brings the european union to a financial collapse. but if it continues to pursue the course of adventurous neoliberalism and fanaticism for unlimited expansion, it need not be surprised by falling birth rates or social unrest. then the recent short-term increase in public support for the eu as a safe haven will be quickly lost, and the economic bubble will burst much more than it is now!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since 1999, a revision of the european works council directive has been in the works. this has become a recasting process too little for a rapidly changing industrial landscape! this naturally includes improved information and consultation as a tool for a conflict-reducing corporate culture. this is essential. transnational decisions are part of the advisory body of the european works council. the directive, which is not as toothless as it appears, needs to be strengthened in law in its implementation. this must also be accompanied by sanctions to ensure that the directive can be implemented. this must be done so that the ecj's judgments are not simply ignored. despite some progress, a review will be due after three years at the latest. we could and should have recorded this too, in order to correspond to the realities of industrial policy, to this rapid change. but and that's the most important thing about it at least something is happening!
in writing. the increasingly interconnected nature of global markets is accompanied by rapid product innovation and change. children's toys are no exception. the european toy safety directive (88/378/eec) dates from 1988 and is therefore no longer suited to meet the current challenges. the revision of these provisions is therefore a very welcome step. in particular, the ingredients of children's toys need to be assessed according to the state of the art and covered by the current eu chemicals regulation. this naturally includes the exclusion of cmr 1 and 2 substances in children's toys. the present text also correctly takes account of the increase in allergic diseases in children and strengthens the rules on fragrances that may be used in toys. clear warnings and labelling are crucial for supervisors. in particular, for toys used as food additives, clear information is important. it is therefore essential that easy-to-read and easy-to-understand information is given priority over an overabundance of secondary information.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. - the proposal for a regulation (com (87) 560 final) on the common organization of the market in bananas; i would like to thank mrs rühle very much. i agree with the commissioner - and i am speaking on behalf of the committee on industry - that we need better starting conditions for the defence industry. in the face of competition, particularly from the united states of america, we need this level playing field. this does not mean, as has already been said, that we can dispense with the fact that the various member states have their own principles as regards arms exports. but we need simplified procedures where they are necessary and possible, also in the sense of cutting red tape. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. this increases the feeling of security, simplifies procedures and makes it possible to detect possible abuses earlier than in the present situation. of course, there must also be regular checks to make sure that the rules and principles you have chosen are being followed. of course, this also requires records in the various business papers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we have simplified rules to suit the industry, then there must be more pressure on the other side to ensure that those rules are respected. in this sense, i think it is a very good report and we are really making a significant step towards the internal market for defence products.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would also like to congratulate my colleague mr groote on this report. he's been very cooperative. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to remind you, however, that transport as a whole is becoming an increasing problem in europe. it is the sector that is growing most steadily and fastest. let's just think about the co2 problem. we shall have the opportunity to talk more about this subject tomorrow. we know that all forms of transport are increasing, and i think it is really time for the commission to set quite ambitious targets in this area, not just in individual dossiers, but to address the whole problem of transport in our modern world. even if we now have clean trucks that are quite capable of emitting less, the infrastructure simply has inherent limitations. let's look at our highways. in some member states they are so overcrowded that in future even the cleanest euro 6 truck will not have a way through, let alone the many cars that people are stuck in. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of transport services. i think the report is positive, firstly, in that it sets ambitious targets and, secondly, in that the commission is also proposing to introduce realistic measurement methods. we in tirol have had the experience that the previous measurement methods have actually failed and that in real operation the difference between a euro 0 and a euro 3 or euro 4 truck was quite small. i also welcome the fact that access to repair information is generally guaranteed. i believe that this is an important argument for citizens in particular to agree to this dossier, since every citizen will then have the opportunity to freely choose his workshop.
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. the media may not be around at this late hour, but media skills are still needed! what is media literacy and why is it so important that we pay more attention to it? the digital development, the new technologies and the information technologies have already overtaken us in their development, and we are actually behind in how we deal with them and how we teach and learn. media literacy means having the ability to use the media, to understand and critically evaluate the different aspects of the media and media content, and to communicate in a variety of contexts. in addition to these educational aspects, equipment and access to new technologies play a crucial role, and there are very large disparities between, for example, the member states of the european union and between rural and urban areas. there's still a lot of infrastructure to invest in. media literacy can therefore be understood in a broader sense as the access to new information technologies and the critical handling of their contents. the target groups are all media users, young and old. the goals are that we can critically analyze. we define three objectives: ensuring access to information and communication technologies, analysis and critical handling of media content and media culture, and independent reflection, production of media texts and safe use of technologies. media literacy must become a key competency, i.e. it must be part of both teacher training and school education. media literacy is part of the training of teachers so that they can learn and teach it themselves. it is also recommended that media education modules be continuously developed so that continuing training in this field is also ensured. in schools, media literacy must be an integral part of the curriculum at all levels. we are now at a point where most children are teaching each other how to use media and new technology, but the educated use, and above all the consequences, are unfortunately too little known. the elderly must also be taken care of, and media literacy must be built in as an integral part of 'lifelong learning'. because it is especially important for the elderly to be able to keep up with this technology in order to remain independent and to be able to participate in society for longer. but all the advances in technology have their side effects, of course. so i think there are also unrecognized dangers that we have now, and that is the consequences, when the children communicate with others in this new way, whether it's blogging or anything else, then they should also be aware, and every adult should be aware, that everything that is on the net is available at any time. when i put my personal data online, i make it available to everyone, so that everyone can use my data or the data of the users to create personality profiles that can influence some resumes or applications and can be very crucial for the future professional life. what we should and want is that we use the media competently, but we are not used, and we should work towards that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would just like to point out that today, for the first time, parliament will be voting on the rejection of a commission legislative proposal under the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny. as rapporteur of the underlying equity directive, i ask you to support the resolution adopted unanimously by the economic and monetary affairs committee. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we call for a proper balance between matters proposed by the commission in the codecision procedure and matters dealt with by the commission alone in the comitology procedure. in particular, the commission is proposing to us, in the comitology procedure, rules on credit rating agencies which go far beyond the technical area and which therefore need to be brought back into the codecision procedure. we must also ensure that legislation is consistent. we are currently in possession of the reports on the rating agencies, the equity directive and a proposal for a comitology. we want to discuss everything together with a clear line in the codecision, and that is why i ask for your support. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european works council has been in existence for 14 years and it is high time that a change was made. i therefore voted for the report because the european works council is finally being adapted to the new realities. we have a plethora of so-called european, that is to say cross-border, companies. the tasks of the european works council therefore had to be adapted to these new requirements. it is necessary to support this report because it ensures that in fact in all the companies where there is crossborder work and where crossborder workers' affairs are concerned, they are actually represented by so-called european works councils.
in writing. − the euro's wide range of uses makes it a valuable asset for counterfeiters. the flowers are made to such high quality standards, even with security features imitated, that the layman is all too easily fooled by the fake 50's and co., and vending machines are not immune to fraud either. the recent turbulence in individual currencies is likely to make the euro even more important. and criminal gangs will try to cash in on that. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december last gave a clear signal to the european parliament that it was ready to take action to ensure that the euro was as secure as possible. the first is to work on the currency itself, the second is to explain more about the security features, because the most secure euro is useless if people are still not as familiar with the money. finally, we must also intensify our efforts to combat counterfeiting, and the current policy of starvation in the executive branch must finally come to an end. the present report can therefore only be a first step towards a safer euro, and i have in any case voted in favour of it.
in writing. − it is of course important that the eu ensures that no counterfeit coins or medals similar to euro coins are produced. for example, some years ago, coins of the turkish lira with euro features appeared in austria. unfortunately, the eu does not seem to take symbolism seriously. for example, when slovenia planned to use austrian symbols a provocation par excellence, it did not feel competent in designing the national sides of the euro coins. and when georgian president mikheil saakashvili, in the wake of the caucasus crisis, repeatedly appeared in front of the eu flag in various television speeches, as if his country were a member of the european union there was no criticism from the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. in any case, it is important that no euro-like entity can be confused by the public with the euro, which is why i voted for the ryan report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would first like to thank mr borloo for his commitment to the climate package, because it is a very good solution and one that we can defend with all our might. i would like to say a few words about foreign policy, and i would also like to address the new minister for europe. the council adopted the eastern partnership in principle. president sarkozy has already said that if we want to succeed in this area, we must of course also take russia into account in the black sea region. the european union must be able to take action to help the countries of the region, and to help the countries of the mediterranean. but we also need turkey. i wonder why turkey is not mentioned anywhere in this report! how can we solve the situation in this region without turkey? i have recently led a delegation from this parliament to turkey. michel rocard, who was a member, always asked: 'what about the french presidency? is she being objective? other and that has been confirmed, the french presidency has acted objectively. but if we continue with the french attitude as far as france is concerned, we will soon have nothing to negotiate with turkey because the chapters are exhausted. what are we going to do about turkey, which we need as a partner in this region? i do not want to prescribe an answer, but mr minister, you must consider how we are going to proceed. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the french presidency is no longer required, but france as a country.
i have to say, madam president, i do not wish to congratulate the french presidency on this success of the negotiations. the bitter aftertaste, however, is that the european parliament was not properly involved. that's a shame, especially with this file. the urgency here is not entirely understandable, because almost all the member states are failing to comply with the commitments they have already made under the kyoto protocol. we're always very good at deciding on goals that are far in the future. the ets shall start on 1 january 2013. we have agreed on commitments for this period and for 2020 and beyond. it would have been better to have got the member states to honour their commitments and to have got the european parliament properly involved in a clean, democratic and politically correct procedure. i also believe that the commission now faces major challenges because it is a comprehensive framework that we have decided on. but it is the commission's way of setting the concrete framework conditions that will be decisive, particularly when defining certain points, such as the application of the flexible instruments. again, it must be said that in the ets sector, 50% or more can be outsourced to other regions of the world, while in the effort sharing sector, it is 70%. the member states have made good use of this. i would like to ask the commissioner, mr dimas, to monitor compliance very closely and to remind the member states of the responsibility they have assumed to help the world's climate. we also have the problem of defining carbon leakage precisely. it is right to exclude sectors here, but no one knows yet which sectors are affected. the commission will therefore have to create a transparent procedure to ensure that the proposal is accepted by both industry and the member states. because these are very large sums. it is important that we find a good basis here in a transparent procedure.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to point out that the different situations in the member states should be taken into account, not in terms of gross national product, but in germany, for example, where a lot of coal is still used for energy production, on the other hand france has a very strong use of nuclear energy. we need safety standards for nuclear power stations throughout europe and an independent regulator who will also take care of the necessary regulations. the objective of excluding small and medium-sized enterprises up to 50,000 tonnes of co2 has still not been achieved. this is a major concern because the bureaucratic burden of small businesses is too much to bear.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner! the links between the energy package and climate change have been mentioned several times in the debate today, and quite rightly so. i believe that this connection is inseparable and i hope that the timetable which has now been set out will also lead to a genuine consensus solution between the european institutions on the internal energy market in a few months' time. i would like to say in this context that i do not think it is good - although it has been praised several times today - that we continue with the quick-fire technique that has just been used here on the climate issue. first reading agreements can be a very good thing. but if they lead to a change in the majority of the institutions and to a very uneven distribution of the roles and functions of the various institutions, then i do not think that is a good thing.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to thank our rapporteur in particular. it has made a great effort to reach consensus, including with the council, on this subject, which has unexpectedly become a very hot topic. the commission has taken a very illogical and very un-european stance on this issue, since it is obvious that many governments have as their primary objective the protection of their own speeding, pushing or drinking drivers, regardless of the lives they put at risk. what is the current practice? people abide by the prohibitions in their own country. once they cross the border, they grow a lead foot and they don't get off the gas pedal - exactly, because they don't have to worry about ever getting a ticket for it. one thing must be clear: it is particularly difficult in small countries or countries with a high level of tourism to get citizens to understand the penalties, i.e. the enforcement of the law, if they can be absolutely sure that others are not subject to this threat of punishment. so if i am on the road with a pusher behind me, who is closing in on me, and he has a number plate from another member state of the european union, do i have to ask myself whether my own life is worth less than the life of this citizen at home, that he only gives this extra security to people in his own country? it is not fair, it is not european and it is harmful to road safety. we would have gotten a good text. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. then we've cleared up a lot of the debate about imbalances. the point is simply that a sensible level of punishment would be a sensible limit.
the commission has already done so. it's good that we at least have an agreement to prosecute four common crimes together. but in reality, the main thing is that these traffic violations are then actually punished, not just that we say we agree that some crimes should be prosecuted. the core problem is that many member states do not pursue what should be pursued. in view of this, i find it incomprehensible - and we should make this quite clear - that some member states - and especially those who do not want to prosecute traffic offences from other member states - hide behind the question of law and the dispute over jurisdiction. the point is that we are very clearly adhering to the basic position taken by the treaty of lisbon. in any case, the point is that member states are not protecting their own citizens from what is done in other member states. in view of this, i am sorry to have to make a reproach to the commission - but it has to be made - and to ask why it has never been considered here to initiate infringement proceedings against those states which do not punish certain offences in a systematic way, or at least to threaten them with such action. i thought that was a sensible approach, a very clear and very clear signal that this was a real concern of europe and the european community, and i would therefore recommend it very specifically. the second point which i think is important is why we are not also including the candidate countries in this system. i come from a country where there are a lot of drivers from neighbouring countries which are not yet, or are just not yet, members of the european union. i also think that their free passage into our country is totally unjustified.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. let me begin by saying that i would like to thank mrs piia-noora kauppi very warmly on behalf of the group of the european people's party, not only for her great commitment but also for her expertise and dedication to parliamentary work and, therefore, for her willingness to compromise. you always knew what she stood for, and you know she's open to others. she's going back to an exciting role, and most importantly, she's going to have more time as a mother afterwards. thank you for your cooperation and i wish you all the best. with this revision, the european union is once again providing a proper response to the financial market crisis. there are still far too many differences between the member states and the harmonization that has been achieved is a step in the right direction. the financial crisis is also an opportunity for the european union to communicate and for the lasting improvement of our european financial market system, as this example shows. i am very clear that ensuring a well-functioning settlement system, especially in fast-moving markets, is essential for financial stability and even more so in times like the one we are living in. i'm only interested in three points. firstly, the consistent approach adopted in these reports. secondly, i support the simplifications and facilitations which are involved in the application of the two directives. thirdly, i will also include the findings of this report and this directive in my own report on the equity directive, in order to contribute to an overall report and to enable a coherent approach.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to say to the rapporteur that i am very grateful for his expertise, for his insistence on precision so as not to create unwanted problems, and for his parliamentarisation of the debate. this is a matter of concern to everyone. every saver worries about his money when his bank gets into trouble. every saver wants to know how safe their money is. every saver wants to know when and how much he is guaranteed to get back. i therefore welcome the increase in the coverage amount and await the impact assessment so that we can decide whether the limit of eur 100 000 is a harmonised limit or a minimum limit. i welcome the reduction in the payment deadlines and thank all those who wish to extend these rules to smes. i ask the commissioner to examine whether and how such a path is possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the constant repetition of the dogma of the self-regulating market, not only has there been a failure to set clear boundaries, to establish rules and to control. the eu has also consistently failed to emancipate itself from the american financial markets. it has thus failed in its duty to protect europeans from the negative consequences of globalisation. for years it was said that there was no money for social and health care, yet millions were wasted on prestigious projects, such as the european fundamental rights agency, whose budget almost quadrupled despite massive criticism from the court of auditors. now that the public feels that the eu has once again failed them in the face of the threat of mass unemployment, brussels is preparing a new 200 billion economic stimulus package, which in my view is more of a fraud. in the end, it is not so much the amount of money spent as the accuracy of the measures actually implemented that will probably matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this budget must make interested europeans sad, and i hope they will also vote indignantly in the european elections next june. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today. understanding would have meant that you finally took the big blocks, soberly analyzed - that can be done by consultants, that can be done by economic research institutes - and checked against the given objectives. it would have been easy to see that a third, perhaps even half, of the 114, 116 billion euros would have been put to good use in this great crisis. instead, the money continues to be squandered, given to the wrong areas and, above all, fed by an incredible bureaucracy and political caste. this is a tragedy for europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european budget is a zero. 0.89% of gnp will be spent on payments next year 116 billion euro. in national budgets we usually have two digits before the comma. i believe that we have shown in recent years that a very economical use of citizens' resources can achieve a great deal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should therefore work with the council to ensure that we do not send money back and forth and now send money back to the member states. we should unanimously adopt a package here in the field of transeuropean networks for research and development, for the european institute of technology, for eureka, for erasmus and for education. we should sit down together and quickly and efficiently tie up a package that then actually arrives at our small and mediumsized enterprises. that is why parliament insists that we introduce a separate budget line for the small business act and in particular a budget line for climate change. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. we have two thirds of the workforce in small and mediumsized enterprises - after all, they produce 50% of the gross national product - and millions of new jobs could be created here, particularly if we focus on energy efficiency.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to take up a comment made earlier by my austrian colleague, mr paul rübig. we are spending less than 1% of european gross domestic product on europe, and at the same time we are demanding that the european union should take on more and more tasks for more and more member states. this bill is not going to pay! it is therefore incredible that we have been following a policy of saving for many years, but that policy is not just about spending our money sparingly, but is basically about the finance ministers collecting money at the end of the year and putting it back into their budgets at home. we'd have plenty of new tasks to spend our money on. we also have tasks which we have not really budgeted for for years. the expenditure on the european union's information policy must be considerably increased if we are to really engage the european citizens with europe. there are many tasks in the field of student and apprentice exchanges which europe could take up.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yesterday, several registered visitors were unable to enter the house. i would like to express my gratitude to the staff of the house who, despite the opposition of the police, have tried to allow the visitors to enter. but the police wouldn't let them because they were wearing red jackets. i don't know who's afraid of red jackets. another colleague of ours - a member of this house - had to take off his jacket to even get into the house. i'd like to report to the police with the information that it is not allowed to obstruct visitors. i would like to emphasize once again that the services of the house have tried to allow the visitors who had registered to enter the house, but the police have prevented this, despite their peaceful behaviour. i ask you to inform the police that parliament should not be resisted in this way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to take the opportunity of yesterday's debate with the french presidency to make a request. we have group leaders in our circle who have important things to say about this important debate. that's good, and that's right. we have the same group leaders who are always late by one or two minutes. perhaps we could just subtract this time from the fractional time, because it's not about changing the actual correct distribution afterwards.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am particularly sorry that, despite the broad support of members, my own initiative proposal to maintain sunday as a working day was not put to the vote in this house. europe is built on christian values, the protection of the family is a very special concern of ours, and sunday is the day on which these values can also be lived in a special way. this directive would have been the right place to actually establish the sunday off-working day throughout europe. so i'm sorry about that. secondly, i must say that i rejected the council's positions on the working time directive because working hours would have been extended, standby time would not have been counted as working time and a wealth of opt-out possibilities would have undermined european regulation. i am glad that parliament has now reached the stage where it can negotiate with the council.
in writing. − when we promote new technologies for storing carbon dioxide, which is harmful to the climate, we must not leave behind proven technologies that already work. for example, intact peatlands capture carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous oxide, but when peat is cut and dried, they become 'greenhouse gas emitters'. and when tropical forests are burned to produce biofuels, the climate balance is also going in the wrong direction. we should learn from the biofuel adventure that 'good intentions' can become 'ownership' all too quickly. the new techniques are far from mature, and the consequences are not measurable. that is why i abstained in today's vote.
in writing. − in our efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we subsidize the purchase of tropical biofuels. we are only appearing to be meeting our obligations under the kyoto protocol, but in fact we are making the problem worse. if studies show that up to 46% of the world's living carbon is sequestered in tropical forests and 25% of total carbon emissions are caused by deforestation, then the eu's calculation is wrong. in all the talk about carbon dioxide emissions, the big picture is forgotten. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. in addition, the suitability of current engine systems for the use of biofuels does not appear to be fully established. the whole system is still in its infancy, which is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. − if the eu is already dealing with crossborder traffic regulations, it should not be limited to the enforcement of road traffic tickets. in brussels, for example, which is an international city, it happens that people who are dependent on the help of the authorities because of traffic accidents, thefts, etc., do not receive the same help because of their non-belgian car number as those with belgian number plates, on the grounds that they do not pay for the maintenance of the road system and the associated costs for the car owner. the eu, which has always been a champion of anti-discrimination, will have to deal with this problem. another problem that has not been solved is the environmental zones that have been created in many european countries, where surveys indicate that 40 percent of motorists would not recognize the signs or would drive without permission. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. other measures to promote road safety are being overlooked, which is why i have rejected this report.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the council has rightly drawn the rapporteur's attention to this is evading its work on the protection of the financial interests of the union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if you do not start negotiations now, you will deliberately delay the reform of the fight against fraud at european level into the next legislative period of this parliament. you know that! we will also have to tell our electorate in june that it is the member states who are not interested. we have several examples. as regards vat fraud, which costs a country like germany between 16 and 18 billion euros a year, we would have the means to take such anti-fraud measures, for example through a reformed olaf. but if the member states do not supply information, then even the best anti-fraud authority cannot do anything. we have the follow-up of the cases by olaf. we often find ourselves in the dark because we are not informed by the national authorities of the measures taken in response to the findings of the anti-fraud authority. there is a need for action. as someone who was there in 1999, i can say that the most important thing we wrote into this regulation 1073/99 was that we have to reform this anti-fraud unit, which has done a decent job in recent years, after a few years. we can't just put this off. i would like to remind the council of that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mrs yade for her report. we will have elections to the european parliament next year, and in the run-up to elections, disinformation is particularly strong. that is why we want olaf to be reformed quickly. it is necessary to identify clearly and unequivocally where there is a failure and where disinformation is being used to the detriment of the european union. i think we need this support and this clarity for our citizens in europe!
i have to say, madam president, how do the eurozone and non-eurozone differ in this respect, and in which sectors do you expect the greatest inflationary developments in the near future?
mr president, commissioner figeľ, you are right. i would like to congratulate you very warmly. i think that's one of the big challenges before christmas. if we look ahead to next year, to the financial crisis, there are many things that we need to do now, and education and training really plays a central role. we have three indicators to help us deal with the crisis: research and development, infrastructure and education and training. i think we need to set new standards now, to show the public that lifelong learning is very important, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, that we want to keep the workers there, that we want to train them better, to give them a chance in the market for the future. the european union has a very central and essential role to play here, and i would also be delighted if we could adopt the small business act tomorrow. we would then have additional resources in this area.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. mr susta has already made a clear statement on the importance of this subject, so i do not need to repeat it. the legal affairs committee has dealt with the subject, particularly the international negotiations in the context of acta, and has highlighted the following points: for example, the lack of transparency in international negotiations, the question of the relationship with international conventions such as trips or wipo, the lack of a legal basis for defining the nature and extent of criminal provisions, a point which is also very important for member states. i would like to sum up this briefly in one conclusion: whatever member states or ourselves think about the harmonization of criminal law and how it should be done, we should decide that ourselves. it is not possible to limit the scope for action of the european union and the institutions by means of international negotiations without the necessary transparency, so that the european parliament can no longer really decide on this with the necessary scope. we must not therefore prejudice the european parliament's insistence on its rights. finally, privacy, data protection, civil rights are all involved and may be at risk. we would almost be able to vote on two resolutions tomorrow if the conservative group did not prevent the amendment of one of the resolutions by means of an oral amendment. i hope that opinion will change. thank you, thank you!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good that integration is progressing in the judicial sector, which has traditionally been a reserved area of the state. this is in line with the changed living conditions of the people in our union. but - and this has been said many times - integration must not interfere too much with traditionally developed and, above all, functioning structures. not everything can be discussed in the same breath. the structure of public documents and public servants varies considerably in many member states. in austria, but not only in our country, the notary public has a long tradition as a public document office and a high level of security and trust. this must not be jeopardized just because there are no such occupations elsewhere. so yes to integration and mutual openness, but with moderation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it would be sensible for the conference of presidents to consider with you that we have a basic approach. i would certainly welcome yesterday's, but we should always vote on the same system in such cases.
mr president, under these circumstances i ask that we continue the vote but not the final vote. we can then look at the text first and then take a final vote in january when we are satisfied. (knocking in agreement)
