president, commissioner verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, rapporteur, tomorrow the 86th motor show opens its doors in brussels and the environmentally friendly car is at the centre of it. it is clear that both car manufacturers and consumers are finally convinced of the urgent need for a change of course. it is also clear that this change of course and mentality will only be possible, will only be achieved through coercive measures, and in various fields. i think that anyone who is still thinking defensively is wrong. many european and other mid-range cars are already meeting the new standards of 120 grams of co2 per kilometer. the new golf tdi 1900 is already running at 115 grams per kilometre, so it can indeed be done in germany, and i think we should continue on that path. environmentally friendly technology, that's what it's all about. this is a sector with enormous economic potential and enormous opportunities. and it is therefore right that the commission should be the one to apply the force. we must invest now - you have said it, commissioner - to take the lead in the world in this area. i looked it up again: the seventh framework programme provides over eur 4 billion in appropriations for the transport sector. that is a lot of money, but in the eyes of parliament - as mr chatzimarkakis' report says - not enough to meet our high ambitions. that is why we are calling for more research appropriations for new technologies to be allocated in the budgetary reform. finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is high time that the council also began to speed up its work, particularly in the field of taxation. the commission has put forward a proposal to link the tax on cars to harmful emissions. what are national governments waiting for? they're not represented here, unfortunately, but i hope the message gets through to them. what are governments waiting for to make this proposal work? it is the only way to get the environmentally friendly car into the market in the short term.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking mr stockmann for the excellent report and the good cooperation. i think that at the end of the legislative process we will have taken a major new step towards ensuring that the main european airports finally comply with the same rules of the game when it comes to charging all kinds of fees for services relating to landings, take-offs, airport lighting, aircraft parking and also the handling of passengers and goods. the scope of the directive was one of the major obstacles. i think the compromise is excellent: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. it should also be borne in mind that our compromise provides for the possibility for member states to oblige other airports within the same member state to comply with these regulations, if necessary after an investigation. i think there are four elements that are important. firstly, transparency is the common thread throughout the legislation, the imposition of relevant objective and transparent criteria for determining the level of airport charges - that is essential. secondly, there is still a possibility of variation in the level of airport charges, and i am thinking, for example, of variation based on environmental performance, based on noise pollution. this is the way to achieve a policy of control. thirdly, a clear and mandatory procedure for consultation between the airport managing body on the one hand and the users on the other hand has been established, and a proper complaints procedure has also been set up. finally, there are clear agreements on the prefinancing of major investments in airports and how these can be charged. in short, i think we can get a good result if the council is of good will. i realize there are still some bottlenecks here and there. i am also thinking of the amendments adopted on the financing of security measures, which are intended primarily as a means of pressure to resolve another matter, as you know. that is now out of the way, and i therefore think that we as a parliament should be more flexible in this respect in the course of the procedure.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the regulation in question is a very technical matter. that is why there was no debate originally, but now that we have the opportunity to express our views, i would like to make a few brief comments on behalf of the ppe-de group. i am also very pleased that after some informal discussions with the council and the commission we have reached agreement on the first reading. this was only possible thanks to the commitment and openness of our rapporteur, who was willing to listen to all parties. i would also like to thank the commission and the council for their contributions. the existing regulation governing the import and export of certain dangerous chemicals, apart from its dual legal basis - articles 133 and 175 (1) - and some technical amendments, is, as the rapporteur has already said, concerned mainly with the modified procedure for explicit authorization, which is provided for in article 13. the debate has focused on this point in particular in the informal discussions. i am convinced that in some cases greater flexibility is needed to safeguard not only the export interests of european companies but also to ensure the highest level of protection of the environment and public health for all parties involved. it is true that certain dangerous chemicals can still be exported without explicit authorization or consent, but under very strict conditions. i think that the wording of the agreement ensures that safe export of substances is guaranteed and even strengthened. the latter was indeed achieved by deleting part of the commission's original text. as the shadow rapporteur for the ppe-de, i am therefore convinced that we have reached a good, balanced and feasible compromise with the council and the commission. i hope that the colleagues will all approve it tomorrow.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has taken important steps forward, but this text does not meet the objective of creating a harmonized framework. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs. i'll explain myself. there are two points which remain difficult and very difficult for our delegation. the pre-contractual information package is strengthened and harmonised. that's good. that's good. but it is eroded by the different formulae which are allowed for the annual percentage rate of charge for opening credit. i should like to know how the consumer can compare these different formulae in an objective way. secondly, as far as my country - belgium - is concerned, there is a risk of weakening the consumer in the sense that the database must be consulted, but no sanctions are attached to it for the banks. this threatens to put people into even more debt. i think it is a missed opportunity for the banks themselves. it remains a fragmented regulation.
i am convinced, mr president, that i shall vote against this report because i regard this bureau, ladies and gentlemen, as the european watchdog of the political correctness which is increasingly gripping europe. for while this office claims to be protecting the fundamental rights of citizens, in reality it is a threat to some of our most fundamental rights and freedoms and to the principle of subsidiarity. the spirit of political correctness which is so common in europe means that freedom of expression must be subordinated to the demands of a particular religion, particularly islam, which does not want to be criticized. the european observatory against racism, of which this office is the successor, very consciously equated the holding of a legitimate discourse against immigration and against negative aspects of islam with racism. the same centre claimed that islamophobia is a new form of discrimination and that laws against blasphemy should be introduced in the wake of the danish cartoon riots. and when a commissioned study found that violence against jews in europe is mostly perpetrated by muslim youth, it was promptly sent to the trash by the director of this center. few in this hemisphere seem to realize that freedom of speech is the queen of fundamental rights and that progress in history has always been driven by progress in freedom of thought. europe, ladies and gentlemen, would never have been the centre of the world at any given moment without the freedom to speak the truth, however offensive it may be, uninhibitedly and unabashedly. and this report and this bureau are dangerously putting that principle on the back burner.
i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply, which shows the commission's willingness to take a series of measures to reduce as far as possible the risks associated with the circulation of imported toys, especially from china. one of the important points, as the commission points out, is the traceability of toys from producer to consumer - you have just mentioned a little bit about this. a very important question remains, however. when hundreds of thousands of toys are withdrawn from the market, as was the case last year, can you tell me, commissioner, what happens to these toys? what proof do you have that they're disappearing entirely from the market? it occurs to me - it is not trivial if i ask the question today - that they are being marketed to other children. all the children in the world have the same right to do what we do, and i think we all agree on that. does traceability allow you to trace their route to actual destruction?
in writing. − the transport sector accounts for one fifth of greenhouse gas emissions. sustainable, efficient and clean cars can make a serious contribution to the fight against climate change. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. unfortunately, this message is not to be found in the commission and parliament's response to the cars 21 document. our amendments seek to reflect a number of key points: the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. we stress that the increasing global demand for transport fuels may lead to the exploitation of oil resources with significant negative environmental impacts such as tar sands or synthetic coal gas. further measures are needed to significantly improve fuel efficiency in the sector. the choice of agrofuels can only be made if the commission provides for a binding, comprehensive certification system with strong social and environmental criteria. finally, we also want to remove the paragraphs that (1) propose motorsport and formula 1 racing as possible contributions to more environmentally friendly technologies and (2) allow car manufacturers to produce cars that emit more co2 if these emissions are the result of legally binding measures taken at eu level. the bulk of our amendments were rejected. i therefore vote against this report.
in writing. − health and safety at work is at the heart of the european agenda and the lisbon strategy. the more investment is made in this, the higher the productivity and the lower the social security expenditure. for example, the previous policy plan already resulted in a significant reduction in the number of occupational accidents in the workplace. for the new policy period (until 2012), the 25% reduction target is again set and the commission commits to support smes in implementing the existing regulatory framework. the willmott report improves the commission proposal considerably. it seeks the right mix of stricter and better labour inspection, effective prevention, adequate incentives and sanctions, together with the exchange of best practices and greater employee participation. the report is supported by a number of green amendments, such as the additional attention to the occupational group of temporary workers (women, migrants), temporary and low-skilled workers and the attention to the underlying causes of mental illness and mental health, to addiction and psychological dangers at work, such as stress, harassment and bullying, and also violence.
mr president, in a presidency there are subjects which one can choose and others which, by breaking in, invite themselves to the table, such as security in the middle east or the iranian issue. the iranian nuclear issue is part of a complex process which affects the security of the middle east and the muslim world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. many of the people in the area live on less than two dollars a day. is that acceptable? i'm not talking about a moral point of view, but a safety one. these people end up becoming extremists because they have nothing to lose and they feel humiliated. no one is born a suicide bomber, no one is born a terrorist. we must create an environment that will allow everyone to live in dignity, peace and freedom. these are not my words, but those of mohamed el baradei, head of the international atomic energy agency and nobel peace prize winner. they imply that a relationship of trust should be established with the arab world, and in particular with iran, that it does not exclude any vexing issues - neither the shocking negationism of that country towards the shoah, nor the security of israel - and that it should be done in mutual respect and dignity. the slovenian presidency would like to take up those words. does it think that it is possible to achieve a denuclearization of the region by avoiding the taboo subject of israeli nuclear weapons?
president-in-office, you have the important responsibility of launching a new cycle of the lisbon process at the next spring summit. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to make a number of proposals. it is true that the previous cycle of the lisbon strategy has brought growth and jobs, but it is also true that europe must now function in a context of accelerated globalisation with new players of global scale. the socialist group is therefore convinced that europe can only continue to play its role if we fully commit ourselves to sustainable development, to research and innovation, to investment in people. in short, quality, not low cost or low standards. it is also clear to us that we need everyone in europe to do this. lisbon has not prevented 78 million people from living in poverty and a large proportion of the jobs created are often precarious jobs that do not provide a decent income. that is why lisbon can only succeed if the social dimension is seriously strengthened. not just in the comments, mr president, but also visibly and prominently in the guidelines and in an ambitious social agenda. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) on the conclusion of the agreement between the european economic community and the republic of slovenia on trade in textile products (com (97) 0406 - c4-0177/97).
i would just like to point out, mr president, that i voted against the report by mr angelilli. not because i am against children's rights, of course - far from it. i think it is even positive that the report has once again destroyed some of the taboos of this house, for example the taboo of structural violence against girls within the muslim community. in fact, i think the report rightly states that the compulsory wearing of the headscarf in the muslim community is detrimental to the development of girls within that community. i agree with all of them, but i voted against this report because it shows once again a huge european meddling. i think that all these matters can be better handled at national level and that europe does not have too much to do with all this. i'll give you one simple example. the report makes a very strong case against the imprisonment of minors. in my country, on the other hand, there is a great deal of public support for imprisonment of juvenile offenders, which is the problem we face.
i voted against the pack report. not because i'm against lifelong learning, of course, but because i'm against it. no sensible person can deny the great importance of adult education in our constantly evolving world. i do not think that europe, and the european commission in particular, should interfere too much with a competence which belongs to the member states. that's not just a matter of common sense; it is also contained in the principle of subsidiarity, which is always respected here, but which in practice is increasingly a dead letter.
in writing. after five years of discussions, european consumers will soon have identical information on consumer credit, allowing them to compare foreign offers for cars, dishwashers and sofa beds. although europeans already have the opportunity to take out bank loans abroad to purchase consumer goods, very few take advantage of this: less than 1% of the total volume of this type of credit is currently taken out abroad. however, rates can now vary from one to two (portugal 12%, finland 6%)! the main obstacles identified were the language problem, distance and lack of consumer confidence. the directive, which i support, should help to strengthen this confidence, to better inform consumers and to facilitate their choices, while ensuring that they benefit from uniform rules of protection (early reimbursement, right of withdrawal, etc.). two questions to conclude: is there not a risk of encouraging over-indebtedness if the conditions for credit institutions to check the creditworthiness of customers are not further strengthened? is it not urgent to open up the field of crossborder competition for mortgage loans?
in writing. it is a highly controversial directive, "on ice" for almost 6 years, that the european parliament voted today. however, this is a text which is very much in line with the concerns of europeans, since it provides for the harmonization of the consumer credit market. a market of €800 billion (two out of three europeans use credit to buy furniture, a television or a car), rates which currently range from 6% (in finland) to over 12% (in portugal) and yet transactions hitherto mainly national, less than 1% of credit now being crossborder. the directive opens up the european frontiers to consumers looking for the best credit: they can choose the best offer, while being guaranteed the same rights and standards in terms of information, comparison and, above all, protection against over-indebtedness. the assessment of the borrower's creditworthiness, prompt and free information in the event of a refusal and a right of withdrawal of 14 days in principle are some of the main objectives of the directive. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented.
in writing. − despite the un convention on the rights of the child, which many member states have signed, the basic rights of young people and children are still being violated too much. the commission's presentation of a european strategy is therefore a very welcome initiative. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of children against all forms of violence, including sexual exploitation and violence against children. the greens/efa group have added the following to the report: the commission has also proposed that the council should take a decision on the establishment of a european ombudsman for children, the prohibition of child labour, equal pay for equal work for young people under 18, the recognition of the rights of refugee children and the right to a clean and protected environment. i am very pleased that parliament is taking the time to debate this; i fully support this report.
president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council, i would also like to begin by expressing my deep sorrow at the tragic death of benazir bhutto. benazir bhutto has been a laureate of the liberal international's freedom prize. we gave it to her the first time she was prime minister. yes, she is human, she was human, and so she was imperfect. we have asked ourselves at some point later whether we had done the right thing. i then put that question to asma jahangir, a human rights activist from pakistan, who is now on a special mission on behalf of the secretary-general of the united nations. she told me that we had done absolutely well in this, because benazir bhutto has been a real example in pakistan for several reasons, especially as regards the role and function of women in pakistani society. that benazir bhutto was killed by violent terrorists is a fact, but who the commanders of those violent terrorists are remains an open question. i believe that there can be no reconciliation in pakistan unless an impartial inquiry brings clarity and clarity to this matter. whether that is why the family's request for a un inquiry should be dealt with, i do not know, but at least there should be guarantees of impartiality, because president musharraf has not shown much respect for the judicial authorities, including the highest court in his country. i should also like to say that i am receiving reports from pakistan that thousands of ppp militants are being arrested, detained, charged. this too must be stopped if the elections are to be held under reasonable conditions.
president. - the assassination of benazir bhutto is a tragedy for pakistan and shows the enormity of the problems facing pakistan. it is a country of 165 million people, a country with nuclear weapons and a country engaged in a struggle against terrorist organizations such as al-qaeda and the taliban. it is of course of the utmost importance that political stability should be established in pakistan as soon as possible and that president musharraf should play an important role in this at this time. yet we must not be blind to the many important shortcomings in musharraf's policies. for example, the problem of terrorism has been treated far too laxly. for example, in large parts of the border area with afghanistan, the taliban and al-qaeda have free rein, and far too little is done about it. musharraf has also shown that he is not so concerned with democracy by declaring a state of emergency on 3 november. moreover, there were already alarming signs pointing in his direction after the first attack on benazir bhutto on 18 october. the same thing happened after the actual assassination of benazir bhutto. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, i understand very well the concern of many people, including yourself, including bernard kouchner, to send an electoral mission to pakistan. it is indeed one of the only means of exerting pressure on mr musharraf that we still have, but it must be said that this observation mission would take place under very special conditions. we are used to studying and making the observations before, during and after. for what happened before, we already know how much stuff was faked. mrs benazir bhutto had written, with mr latif khosa, a 160-page report on the possible rigging of these elections, in particular by computer, which she was to hand over to two us parliamentarians on the very night of her death. do we have the ability today to control computer tampering in an election observation mission? if not, we could then rule that even if the "before" was more than doubtful, the "during" happened normally while there was fraud. i therefore call for a very special observation mission and i ask that we do not declare these elections democratic when we cannot control them.
in writing. i wholeheartedly support the report by our excellent colleague mr díaz de mera. the transformation of europol into a community agency is a demand of the european parliament which i have always supported. it means that europol will henceforth be financed from the community budget and that the staff regulations will apply to europol staff. in both cases, the powers of our parliament are considerably strengthened. the council decision also significantly extends the scope and capacity of europol, which is also in line with my convictions. in short, making europol more operational and subjecting it to genuine democratic control is a choice i wholeheartedly support.
president of the commission. − madam president, first of all i apologise for the slight delay. as you know, we have just concluded our commission meeting, and the first thing we did immediately after it was to come here to present what we believe is an historic package for the european union. that is the reason why i, together with the commissioner for the environment, mr dimas, and the commissioner for energy, mr piebalgs, have only just arrived. the final drafting of the document is being completed. we will have it immediately, but this is a very important occasion to present to you first-hand the conclusions of our meeting today. i should like to start by saying that we are very happy with the result. the result was obtained by consensus in the college, with strong backing from all the members of the commission for a very ambitious proposal, because we have agreed what is now the most comprehensive package in terms of climate action and renewable energy that exists in any part of the world. we believe we have reason to be proud of it. this package on climate action and renewable energy meets the challenges of the future. we believe it is good for our planet; it is good for the european economy; it is good for our citizens. the work of the european union is sometimes seen as rather technical: interesting to specialists, but not relevant to people’s daily lives. the action we are discussing today proves this theory wrong: the struggle against climate change and the quest for secure, sustainable and competitive energy touches every european every day. we are all affected by this, and this is one of the most – if not the most – important challenge of the 21st century. europeans ask for a vision and a plan of action. that is what we are doing now. this vision was set out last year with leadership from the european political community. it was agreed in the european council, following a commission proposal, to bring about the ‘20/20/20 by 2020’ goals: a 20% reduction in greenhouse gases, or 30% if other developed economies agree, 20% of energy use through renewables and a 20% increase in energy efficiency by 2020. this was agreed by the european council. we can be proud that europe is leading that effort. we then brought it to the heiligendamm summit, to the high-level event at the united nations in new york and finally to the bali conference. without strong european leadership, we could not have achieved the promising results of the bali conference, setting a road map for the global agreement we are seeking and that we expect to reach in copenhagen in 2009. the clear commitment of this parliament to this cause has been essential, and i want to thank you, once again, for all your support. your work over the past year has been critical in building the political momentum in favour of action. i believe that today’s proposals match the goals that you have set out, as well as meeting the mandate given by the european council last march. today’s package adds up to a detailed road map to bring about the political vision agreed last year. we have agreed on the vision and now we have to deliver on the concrete plans, the concrete instruments to achieve that vision. we believe that the main priority is to bring about a 20% cut in our greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 and be ready, if necessary, to step up to 30% with an international agreement. let us never forget that. this is about global warming; it is about global climate change and not just about climate change in europe. we have to put our proposals in such a way that we bring others along with us. it is also important to lead by example and that is why, for instance, we are now proposing how to achieve the 20% of energy use through renewables by 2020. the package we have just approved in the commission includes the following: an updated emissions trading system (ets) to create a borderless ets to drive cuts in greenhouse gas emissions from big industrial emitters; specific, binding national targets, so that member states know exactly what they have to do outside the ets, in sectors like transport, buildings, agriculture and waste; a new approach to actively promote renewable targets, again including binding national targets; new rules to stimulate carbon capture and storage, tomorrow’s technology to cut emissions; and new state aid rules that take into consideration the specificity of the action needed in this environmental field. part of our mandate was the 10% target for biofuels so that transport plays a part in emissions cuts. as you know, this 10% target was unanimously agreed by the european council. i want to be clear that, in putting forward proposals on biofuels, we have also fully respected the other side of the mandate: the need for environmental sustainability. the proposal creates the most comprehensive and sustainable system anywhere in the world for the certification of biofuels and for domestic and imported biofuels alike. we will also continue to promote the rapid development of second-generation biofuels. it is important to understand that what we are promoting is sustainable biofuels and we are making a contribution to a global regime, because what we have today is a situation where, in many cases, biofuels are not sustainable and do not respond to our criteria – criteria we want to be implemented not only in europe but throughout the world. the package of measures proposed today contains the most far-reaching legislative proposals to be made by the european commission for many years. how did we set about shaping this complex package? we spent a lot of time exploring options in great detail, but we always held firm to five key principles. first, respecting the targets. without this, we will not look serious to investors, to our negotiating partners and, most importantly, to our own citizens. second, fairness: recognising member states’ different capacities to invest and their different starting points. third, competitiveness: designing a system able to minimise the costs to the european economy and, in some areas, improving the competitive possibilities of europe by giving european industry and the european economy a first-mover advantage. fourth, the proposals had to be designed to promote a comprehensive international agreement to cut greenhouse emissions, including stepping up our own effort to 30% emission cuts should other developed countries do the same. last but not least, we must also start work now to halve global emissions by 2050. this means working today to bring tomorrow’s technology rapidly on stream. this package should also be seen in articulation with some of our earlier proposals, namely the internal market for energy and the energy technology plan. this is part of a very comprehensive set of proposals that is creating, for the first time, a real european energy policy, but we want this energy to be secure and also sustainable. of course, there will be those who say that change comes at too high a cost and that we have no choice but to bury our heads in the sand and hope for the best. i think they have got this wrong. there is a cost, but the cost is manageable. we have worked very hard on coming up with the right design to meet europe’s ambitions in the right way. so the additional effort needed to realise the proposals would be less than 0.5% of gdp by 2020. this amounts, on average, to about eur 3 a week for each european citizen. this is much less than the up to eur 60 per week that is the cost of inaction. going on even the most optimistic assumptions of the stern report, the cost of inaction is more than 10 times what we are now proposing. it is true there are some costs, but we have to compare the cost of this package with the cost of inaction and, since the cost of inaction is much higher, we can say that there is a relative gain in having this package. in fact, every day the price of oil and gas goes up, the real cost of the package falls. instead of costs, we really should be talking about gains for the european union. (applause) the package is hard-wired to reach our goals in an efficient way, using the market to drive change where it is most cost-effective and ensuring a level playing field while leaving as much as possible to member states we have paid particular attention to fairness. we have, therefore, designed the proposals to ensure that the demands on the poorer member states are realistic: all will contribute, but in line with their capacity to invest. at the level of business, we all know that there are sectors where the cost of cutting emissions could have a real impact on competitiveness with companies in countries that do nothing – or do very little – in the fight against climate change. there is no point in europe being tough if it just means production shifting to countries allowing a free-for-all on emissions. an international agreement is the best way to tackle this, but we also need to give legal certainty to companies that we will take the action needed. energy-intensive industries will have ets allowances free of charge if there is no global or sectoral agreement. if our expectations for an international agreement are not met, we will look at other options, such as requiring importers to obtain allowances alongside european competitors, as long as such a system is compatible with wto requirements. i am making this point specifically, because it is very important that this package and the measures that the european union will adopt are not in favour of the environment and against the economy. no, they are not only for the environment and our planet but also for our economy and for the competitiveness of the european economy. we want industry to remain in europe. we do not want to export our jobs to other parts of the world. (applause) fairness is also important at the level of the citizen. we are encouraging member states to act in a sensitive way, such as using a share of the billions of euros to be gained in auctioning revenues to help the less well off to invest in energy-efficient homes. but we must not forget the huge economic opportunity represented by europe’s transition to a low-emissions economy. europe’s leadership also means showing that the technology is there, that we will need an effective and competitive industrial sector up to the challenge. there are real opportunities there. the renewables sector alone will bring one million jobs by 2020 at least, according to our estimates. i am sure that, once again, european industry will show its ability to innovate and adapt. europe can be the first economy for the low-carbon age. we must seize this chance. this package represents an opportunity for europe to show itself at its best: tackling an issue of fundamental long-term importance; using the european union’s continental scale to best effect; turning political consensus into practical action. if some people in europe have doubts about the need for a european union, then these are exactly the kinds of policy that show why we need a strong european union more than ever. (applause)this is precisely where we can demonstrate to the most sceptical that, alone, our member states – even the biggest member states – do not have the scale or the leverage to push the agenda forward. but europe, if it is determined to lead, can do it. so, apart from the environmental aspects, apart from the economic aspects and apart from the very important geopolitical and security aspects – because let us not forget that we are speaking about security of supply, and we do not want to be dependent on regimes that are not our friends – it is also a great argument for european unity. it is also a great argument to show not only that we need a strong european union, but also that the world needs a strong european union to lead the global efforts to face the global challenges of the 21st century. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. president, commission president, president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day. it is a day that will affect the way we live, think, act and behave. without prejudice to its other merits, this commission will certainly be remembered in the future as the commission which gave a new dimension to european integration, as the commission which drew up the climate and energy master plan. the basis for this plan was laid during the german presidency of the council, at the instigation of chancellor merkel, and we in the ppe-de group have supported it from the outset. europe is showing today that it is not afraid to take its responsibility in the field of energy and climate and that it can play a leading role in the world. now it is a matter of reconciling ambition with feasibility. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. just carrying out all these agreements is a big step forward. we are assuming, mr president of the commission, that the action plan you have just outlined is well thought out. the ppe group supports your five key principles. but as the group responsible, we naturally demand the opportunity to examine for ourselves whether each of the proposals put forward by the commission is fair and feasible for each of the member states and for each of the sectors most concerned. success does require an integrated approach, reconciling our ambitious energy and climate goals with our economic growth and jobs goals. at the same time, we as europe must secure our energy supply and self-sufficiency. as the ppe-de group we agree with the differentiated approach. we already know that we will be bombarded with questions to weaken the proposals. we also have a duty to listen carefully to the comments of national and regional authorities and representative civil society. but our basic principle is that the one who shouts the loudest should not get the most. we must work towards a differentiated approach based on transparent, objective and fair criteria, and this in the knowledge that not acting costs more than acting. in addition to mutual solidarity, the geographical and economic capacity of the member states must be a priority in burden-sharing. the efforts already made and the future innovation capacity of sectors should also be taken into account. we will not under any circumstances compromise these principles. the final decision we as the ppe-de group will take must be a win-win situation. on the one hand, we need to meet the climate targets, on the other hand, we need to have a performing economy that remains capable of creating jobs. if the balance goes sideways, we risk losing both, for example because economic sectors move to places where there are not even carbon caps. finally, the ppe group is aware that it is crucial that europe, and the rest of the world, should succeed in breaking free from its energy addiction. the time has come to learn to consume less carbon on a large scale. we all - businessmen and citizens - will have to turn the switch.
it is a paradox that a country with such a rich history, such a diverse culture and such a dynamic population as iran, as javier solana has said, is nevertheless committing the most atrocious acts in the field of human rights. the number of death sentences handed down last year - and the commissioner has also mentioned this - is a tragic illustration of this. i therefore believe - as does my group - that iran is in fact failing its own history when the current regime treats its people as it has unfortunately done for many years. nevertheless, i think that the solution is indeed to continue the dialogue, certainly at the level of the population and civil society, but also at the level of the political authorities, however difficult that may be. in this context, the debate with mr jalili last week was not exactly a happy exercise, but it was very important. i am sure he will have understood that none of the groups in this parliament, and therefore none, could agree or even consider that iran should again embark on the path of militarizing its nuclear research without any reaction. on behalf of my group, i would like to welcome very particularly the suggestion by javier solana to set up a kind of multilateral and multinational bank for nuclear fuel, because that is probably a way of linking our concern for non-proliferation with the possibility for countries to continue to develop nuclear activities in the civil sphere.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in iran. iran supports islamist and terrorist groups in lebanon, the palestinian territories, afghanistan, iraq, and so on. the european union's strategy should be to isolate iran as much as possible in the region. it is also important that russia be encouraged to reduce cooperation with iran in the nuclear field. iran's nuclear plans are a threat to world peace. the us national intelligence estimate surprised the world a few months ago by claiming that iran would have stopped its attempts to produce nuclear weapons by 2003. in the united states, however, votes are now being taken to further examine the findings of the nie. in any event, it would be wrong to assume that the nuclear threat posed by the iranian regime is suddenly no longer a matter of concern. the question remains, for example, why iran is making it so difficult for the international atomic energy agency to monitor it. we all know what the regime in tehran is capable of. there is a human rights situation. iran's involvement in international islamic terrorism has been clearly demonstrated in the past. when president ahmadinejad openly says that his ambition is to wipe israel off the map, then it is our duty to take such a thing seriously. so in the present circumstances it would be wrong to reduce the pressure on ahmadinejad. dialogue is necessary, but the european union must be resolute in its efforts, its ambition to further promote freedom and stability.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, all walls eventually come down: the wall of jericho, the wall of the warsaw ghetto, the berlin wall, the atlantic wall, or the wall of indifference. rafah wall, by its symbolic weight, is part of this blind push of men towards freedom. but what did the gazans do with this newfound freedom? did they flee to egypt? did they go to the army with kalashnikovs? no, because the weapons, unfortunately, with or without a wall, always arrive at their destination. the gazans went to stock up on first-aid supplies. they went to do their shopping, to get medicine and baby milk, which was not available in gaza. motorcycles, goats and cows, lifted by cranes, flew into rafah to the cheers of the crowd. this is surreal! then each went to his own home. everything is in these images: the impossible of yesterday, suddenly within reach, and the prosaic life, which takes its rightful place. our responsibility today is historic. the question is no longer who will open the doors of an open-air prison, but who will dare to close them, who will dare to send the gazans back to their slow asphyxiation. since annapolis began, the european union has been losing control. it was the basis of the road map, and it had given control of the peace process to the united states. getting the co-chairmanship of the paris donors' conference was a real feat. that's good. but, for access to gaza, since 2005, the europeans have a mandate. will we, together with the egyptians, the palestinian authority, hamas and israel, succeed in re-establishing dialogue and managing palestinian access to the outside world, or will we, on the contrary, stand by as observers to the inevitable repression that is bound to ensue? that's the whole point. beyond the mission of eu bam, this issue involves the fate of palestinian unity and the peace process, respect for international law and the honour of the european union. the message i am sending to you, mr solana, on behalf of my group is very clear: please go!
president, high representative, commissioner, i would very much like to join with the colleagues who have said that the time for merely showing concern about the dramatic events and the humanitarian situation in gaza is over, and that merely being a donor is not enough. on the contrary, i think that the situation in gaza and the blockade cannot be separated from the overall conflict between israel and palestine. it is clear that the palestinians have placed their hopes in the eu to finally achieve results. we have made many promises in the past, but we find that the european union, in the follow-up to the implementation of the negotiations at the annapolis conference, as well as at the united nations, has actually failed to take on an active mediating role. i think this is unacceptable and that the eu can no longer accept being sidelined by the united states, but must adopt an independent stance.
i support the compromise reached by mr markus ferber and accepted by the council, because i am in favour of an open postal market. i think that this directive gives member states enough room to ensure that their market is also opened up in an orderly way, that there are different service providers competing with a guarantee of quality for their customers. it is certainly not the intention that the member states should use this space to ensure that their market does not open up. because there's a risk of that, too. it is easy to apply this directive in such a way that the bar for new companies is set so high that no one from a new company will be involved in the mail. if that is the way member states are applying the directive, then we have adopted a fine text, but we have not changed anything in practice for postal customers. i think we should certainly approve the text, but i would ask the commission to ensure that the objective of creating an open postal market is not circumvented by measures taken by member states. i note that, for example, in the rapporteur's country, measures have recently been taken which have effectively closed the postal market in germany again.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will make a number of proposals in the future. i understand that many people want to leave it at that, but behind the positive elements that have been added to the directive there are also a number of dangers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, there are still many unanswered questions about the financing of universal service. member states have a number of options, but it is not always clear whether they work. we shall see that in many cases this will lead to all kinds of legal disputes. i think it is therefore useful to clarify a number of points. firstly, the member states are obliged to guarantee the universal service and its financing in all circumstances. secondly, that the member states should be obliged to do their homework in good time and thoroughly and to prepare for this new fact. the second major theme is, of course, the social theme. in the social field, it is important to note that this directive allows member states to impose on all postal operators, through a licensing system, the obligation to comply with, for example, the same collective agreements or other minimum standards. that is a positive thing, but it remains optional and its application will vary from country to country. in short, i think that the directive can be tightened up, and that has nothing to do with fear of the cold, but with the fact that a free market must be regulated and that its liberalisation must be prepared in any case properly.
the committee on regional policy and regional planning has been asked to make a statement on the proposal for a regulation on the european regional development fund. i am very pleased, commissioner, that you have referred to the eurodistrict project on the border of france and belgium. mr. beaupuy has already referred to it. the cities of kortrijk, doornik and lille - have just this week signed a cooperation agreement with the intention of actually working together on projects that people are working on. and then i'm talking about border work, public transportation, hospital cooperation, crime prevention. these are the things that people expect us to do in practice. in another border region - on the border between belgium and the netherlands - several concrete initiatives have been taken to establish very concrete cooperation in the field of university cooperation through an egtc. the regions of belgium, limburg and the netherlands, as well as the aachen region, are concerned. the aim is to create a single, crossborder university with the help of the egtc. the aim is to overcome, as it were, a great many of the administrative obstacles which still exist today by means of this instrument. commissioner, president, the egtc does not solve all the problems, of course, and i am well aware - as we have just heard - that many member states have yet to start. however, on the basis of the first experiences with this instrument, we should already be looking further ahead and, as it were, looking for some improvements on the basis of the first preliminary evaluation. and we should be addressing certain existing gaps. i am referring, for example, to the different social statuses faced by workers who work together in the framework of such an egtc. i can only say, commissioner, that it is of the utmost importance that you, as commissioner, go after the governments which have so far failed to make this an operational instrument.
deputy author. - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having today is taking place in a context, as you know, which is characterized by two essential elements. the first of these - i do not need to remind you - is simply the calendar. in broad terms, we have at best 16 months of operation left before the end of the current european parliament term. that is, if in such a tight deadline we need to agree on the files we wish to finalise together in the time we have left. we can't do everything, we have to choose and stick to what we choose. the second point, mr president, is even more significant from our point of view. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am referring in particular to the abolition of the artificial separation between policies falling under the first and third pillars, which will have the effect, among other things, of introducing codecision and subjecting to genuine judicial review measures which, until now, were essentially the sole will of the council and were outside the jurisdiction of the european court of justice. you will therefore understand our eagerness to see the new treaty come into force as soon as possible, as it represents both a strengthening of democratic control and a strengthening of citizens' rights. and you will also understand in the light of these two criteria, which are - i repeat - the strengthening of democratic control and the strengthening of citizens' rights, our reluctance in principle to deal, under the current treaties, with sensitive issues which could soon be so under the provisions of the new treaty. this reluctance to act on principle is real. it is a profound one and one which is widely shared by the various political groups represented both in the libe committee and in the wider framework of our assembly. but deep as it is, this reluctance is also, at least at the present stage, largely controlled. we are not motivated, mr president, commissioner, by the perverse intention of delaying the implementation of important dossiers which have come to maturity and whose urgency has been proven. on the contrary, we are ready to try to reach, through genuine dialogue, a kind of gentlemen's agreement which would give each of our institutions the security and guarantees it deems necessary. in our view, it should be possible to agree within a very short time on a kind of interinstitutional legislative programme covering 2008 and the first half of 2009, which would include a limited number of common priorities in sensitive areas, would be accompanied by reciprocal commitments and would make it possible to benefit, without anticipating them, from the positive provisions of the new treaty. our parliament has already indicated a possible way of responding to this request in the vote on the amendment of europol's statute and tasks at the last plenary session in strasbourg. mr president of the council, mr commissioner, it was by an overwhelming majority of 537 votes that our parliament adopted an amendment which states that this decision will be reviewed within six months of the date of entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it is true that even if this unilateral amendment is adopted by an overwhelming majority, it is not binding. but as you will have understood, this is a very clear demonstration of our political will to open a debate and find solutions. it is in this spirit that our committee confirms both its determination and its readiness for a genuine interinstitutional dialogue.
mr president, it is right that there is a long debate in this chamber about the need for all kinds of measures to increase the safety of our citizens. we are thinking of frontex. but let us not bury our heads in the sand, because europe itself has become a lot less secure, precisely because of the open borders policy that has been pursued. the policy has significantly increased the power of international organized crime without adequate measures to counter it. there's more. european citizens were also victims of waves of legalisation of illegal immigrants, which was decided in certain countries. it will certainly not make the human trafficking disgraceful. the area of security we are talking about here is - as much as it is deplorable - partly also a space in which criminals - and particularly islamic extremists - are given free rein. all the essential powers of the state in this field are being eroded more and more. so, for example, is the jurisdiction for legal immigration. this is unacceptable. the member states must be able to retain full and unconditional control of their own labour markets and there must be no restrictions on the way in which they organise their labour market policies.
i voted against the resolution because it has all the typical, unpleasant features of the texts adopted here, when it comes to discrimination. there must be a framework strategy, there must be a special task force to coordinate that framework strategy, and probably additional staff must be recruited for that, etc. of course, as eu citizens, roma must be able to enjoy their fundamental rights and it is unacceptable if they are not, but this resolution is again a form of overacting. the roma themselves should also be made responsible, and that aspect is not at all discussed here. the amendments tabled by mrs angelilli were correct. problems such as forced marriages, the marginalization of women and children, must be solved within the roma communities themselves. it really doesn't help to keep saying that all the problems these people face are related to discrimination. they too must be held accountable.
in writing. - i voted against this report. i have repeatedly expressed my fundamental reservations about the schengen system in the past and therefore cannot today agree with the principle of mutual recognition contained in this report. schengen is, of course, subject to watertight controls at the external borders. now, commission president barroso may claim a thousand times that the enlargement of schengen will not lead to an increase in insecurity, the reality is quite different. german security experts close to chancellor merkel say there are huge weaknesses in the new eastern external borders as well as in police cooperation between national police services. the general fear is that illegal immigration will increase significantly. once again, the enlightened minds in euroland are playing with the safety of the citizens of europe, taking their wishes for granted.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative in this area and that it has been able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budget is properly implemented. the central point of this debate is paragraph 41 of the report by mr pomés ruiz, which calls on the commission to support the issuing of national declarations of assurance. if you give your assurance, commissioner, the fight we are waging in the discharge will not be a fight between the european parliament and the commission but a common fight: the commission and parliament against the member states. this is the best strategy, also for the commission, in a coherent way. transparency does indeed create credibility and accountability, and everyone agrees. one aspect of this is indeed the disclosure of information on the final beneficiaries of eu funds. the provision of such information is mandatory under the financial regulation, but it should be made accessible, reliable and suitable for further investigation. with all due respect, commissioner, efforts are being made on your website but there is still a lot of work to be done. some private initiatives are doing better. this report by mr pomés ruiz also describes very clearly what needs to be improved: the presentation, the content, the organisation of the data. the committee on budgetary control calls for a final report by 2009. i would like to bring that forward by one year. if we succeed, the new commission and the new parliament will be able to start from a fresh and clean start in 2009. i ask the house to support that amendment. commissioner, i have one more question for you: what is the status of your commitment to publish the names of all members of formal and informal groups as of 2008 as described in paragraph 34? i also agree with dan jørgensen's question. finally, mr president, i have a question for you. when will the bureau of this parliament decide in full transparency to publish the names of all the members of the voluntary pension fund of this parliament? these people are also the final beneficiaries of important european funds. i would ask you to convey this message to the bureau.
the commissioner said the same thing, mr president, and the report does indeed have a link with the discharge exercise. in this sense too, this debate is a warm-up for the hearing with commissioners špidla and hübner next week. we have figures on the irregularities reported. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report shows a total of €1.1 billion in irregularities reported, and this figure is on the rise. we are back to the level of 2002, after better figures in 2003, 2004 and 2005. agriculture is doing relatively well. the areas of difficulty are clearly the own resources and the structural funds: the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take account of the irregularities reported. within these structural funds, five member states account for 84% of the irregularities reported. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's very strange, though. it should be borne in mind that in the period before 2006 there was still €1 billion of uncollected funds and also that the court of auditors says that 12% of the structural funds should not have been disbursed in 2006. this is the context in which the present discharge is taking place and that is a matter of great concern to us. we'll talk about that later. as regards own resources, the problem of cigarette fraud is being tackled in a correct way. we had an agreement with philip morris. there's a new agreement with japan tobacco, which will bring in a lot of money and also reduce smuggling. the problem area in the area of own resources is the vat carousels. the figures are called: these are huge sums, running into billions of euros. the british house of lords study is adding to that. i am glad that our parliament is dealing with this. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has already organised a hearing and the committee on budgetary control will do so on 4 or 5 may. i hope that as rapporteur i can produce a report on these vat carousels as good as the one i have produced on cigarette fraud.
mr president, thank you for allowing me to speak again. those who follow me in my political mandate and my statements know that i am a critical politician and that i am also very critical of the european union, but that i am a very strong pro-european. i cannot therefore ignore the words of mr clark, who has already left the chamber. mr clark, like all eurosceptics, always uses half-truths, whole lies, a lot of simplism. for example, in his speech he referred to fraud involving several million, whereas the report clearly states that it is about irregularities. so he's always replacing the word "irregularities" with "fraud". that's uncalled for, because it's not in the report. secondly, he pretends that all the evil that is coming to us is coming from the european union. i would ask mr clark to read the report by the british house of lords on vat carousels. he will then see that his own authorities are unable to put a stop to this vat fraud. we are talking about fraud of between 3.5 and 4.5 billion pounds a year. that's over 10 million pounds a day! that 's significantly more ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the rapporteur. - mr president, the report which i have the honour of presenting to you today, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, has its origins in a proposal tabled at the end of 2005 by our colleague antoine duquesne, whom i would like to welcome here. i should also like to point out that most of the work on this report was done by our colleague mayor oreja, who decided, for reasons which are not for me to comment on, to withdraw his name after the vote in our committee. as regards the content of the report submitted to this house, i think it can be summed up by articulating the many elements it contains around four main lines. the first axis is the severity and permanence of the threat. it is an undeniable fact that terrorism in general, and jihadist terrorism in particular, is one of the most serious threats to the security of citizens in the european union today. the bloody attacks in madrid in 2004 and london in 2005, as well as the many failed attempts since then, are clear evidence of the continuing and serious nature of the threat. it follows, and the report strongly emphasises this, that the fight against terrorism must remain a priority for the european union and all its member states. but, and this is the second point of the report, this determined struggle cannot be waged in any way. there are fundamental principles to be respected, otherwise we will be distorting the fundamental values which govern our societies. the fight against terrorism must be conducted with full and strict respect for fundamental freedoms and rights, including freedom of religion and the right to a fair trial. at the same time, and specifically in the case of jihadist terrorism, we must refrain from equating any culture or religion as such with terrorism. the overwhelming majority of muslims, who are, let us not forget, the first victims of terrorism in iraq, afghanistan and pakistan, have nothing to do with the extremist groups that must be fought and which distort the religion they claim to be. finally, on the basis of the principle that hatred and frustration are the factors that drive radicalisation, the report reminds the member states that the fight against all forms of discrimination, and in particular measures to promote the integration of all minority groups, are priority policies to be implemented to promote appeasement, tolerance and coexistence in our societies. the third pillar is specific prevention measures. in the long list of measures recommended to the member states, the report stresses in particular the need to strengthen surveillance of propaganda sites, particularly via the internet, preaching places and audiovisual media in general. the fourth pillar concerns repressive measures. one of these is clearly worth highlighting and will be the subject of considerable debate. it is contained in paragraph 10 of the report and provides for the extension of the definition of terrorist acts to the justification of terrorism. although i am not sure that the term "justification" is adequate personally i think that in french it would have been better to use the term "apology" or "apology" of terrorism and if it would be desirable to change it, i am waiting with interest for how our society will decide tomorrow on this delicate point, which is at the heart of attention, between security and respect for fundamental rights and freedom of expression.
the rapporteur. - mr president, at the end of this debate i would like to make three points. the first is that if we listen to the commissioner and to most of the speakers, we are struck by the fact that there is - as regards the analysis of the phenomenon, the seriousness of the threat, the balance to be struck between preventive and repressive measures - a huge agreement between us all from the moment we discuss operational matters to be put in place: what to analyse, what to prevent, what to repress. secondly, unfortunately, i feel that on a number of rather symbolic items we may not reach the necessary consensus tomorrow and i would regret it because, after analysing the list of amendments, it seems to me that there are more symbolic conflicts than substantive conflicts. the trouble is that these symbolic conflicts could be alleviated if everyone decided to make a gesture, which is not always the major feature of the political groups in this house. thirdly, there are still some things i would like to say to a few people, in particular - and alexander alvaro wanted to say this too - to our irish friend, who believes that respect for human rights is not necessary in the fight against terrorism. i think that's a danger, i would say a very serious danger to the values of our societies. there is a head of state, i heard him speak on television once, a european head of state who said that with a knife in his hand, he would go and kill the terrorists right down to the toilet. well, this regime, now, is a regime in which they poison the opposition and let them kill journalists and they don't know if the elections are free or if they are not rigged. to play with human rights in the fight against terrorism is to risk an unacceptable drift of democratic societies. on the other hand, we were directly challenged by sarah ludford on the problem of the apology of terrorism. i cannot answer her on the substance, i simply say that i am the rapporteur on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, in the circumstances she is aware of and that when i made my comments earlier i was basing myself on paragraph 10 of the report which was voted by the committee on civil liberties, and which very expressly says, sarah, that the committee, and therefore parliament, 'calls for an open debate on an amendment to the framework decision to extend its scope to the justification of terrorism', etc. so i did not make a plea, i simply stated what came out of the committee on civil liberties, but i will still give him a personal answer. when i speak of apologising for terrorism, apologising is incitement and i think incitement is punishable by criminal law.
the president, commissioner, minister vizjak, colleagues, i would like to thank everyone for the good cooperation, but especially alexander stubb, who as rapporteur, as shadow rapporteurs for his report, has very openly involved us in all the discussions. thank you for that. the vote on the goods package is a serious step forward in the achievement of the single european goods market and the three proposals as a whole are necessary instruments for the proper functioning of a single goods market. the principle of mutual recognition exists, but it exists mainly on paper. too often the principle is ignored. the single market is not yet working as jacques delors envisioned it a quarter of a century ago. the european commission has calculated that this means that companies have to pay between 2 and 10% more to market their goods in another member state, due to the incorrect application of the principle of mutual recognition. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political entity. this is bad for both companies and their employees, but also for consumers who have to pay higher prices. it was therefore high time to take the principle of mutual recognition out of anonymity and apply it correctly. that is why we have a rigorous procedure with a reversal of the burden of proof, whereby the commission must also be informed of the member state's decision at the end of the procedure. i hope that the commission will also take action at the end of the procedure if there are still rules which are not based on objective grounds. a few things for the future: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. our committee on the internal market visited the port of antwerp and we saw there how the customs services on the one hand are asking for more resources - and that is a matter for the national member states - but also are asking for more cross-border work and we must work on that for the future. secondly, the clarity of the ce marking is a step forward, but i support the request by mr mccarthy and mr gebhardt to work towards a real safety label for the future. i welcome the positive answer you have given to that, commissioner verheugen. mutual recognition must now be able to function better and for this everyone on the ground will have to take responsibility, the member states and also the commission. but it's still the second best solution. we therefore expect further legislative initiatives to harmonize the internal market in goods in the future.
madam president, i would like to join mr bloom in the praise that has gone before me to our three co-rapporteurs for their investment of time, perseverance and the achievement of this fair compromise, which is a boon both for european industry and consumer safety. i have only two minutes and i would like to focus on a few points, one of which is the issue of ce marking. seven months after the mattel case and the withdrawal since then of over 20 million ce-labelled toys made in china, the eu was under more pressure than ever to improve the marking system. in recent years it has advocated a flexible, voluntary approach based on the new approach, a method which has advantages, but which, when used alone, sometimes shows certain limitations when certain manufacturers affix the ce marking without complying with the standards, which is a clear risk in terms of consumer safety. this is why this legislative package is essential to give the authorities concerned with this problem - the accreditation and certification bodies and the customs services - the tools to fight against these ce marking infringers. it is no coincidence that the european parliament has already expressed itself on several occasions in favour of increased market surveillance, most recently in this resolution on toy safety of september 2007. our rapporteur, mr brie, has made this point abundantly. in january 2004, when i was reporting on the ecodesign directive for energy-consuming products, peter liese, karin scheele and claude turmes and i had already denounced the apparent lack of safety in many products and the unreliability of mandatory or voluntary labels in some cases. i see that, four years later, we have not made much progress and i regret this, i must say, on behalf of the many professionals who have approached us. of course, all measures that are aimed at greater legal certainty and additional support for industry and smes are welcome. i am thinking of the product contact points being created at local level, announced in this report, in addition to the very personal info point announced this morning by alexander stubb. i do not know whether it will be stubb/smes.com, but i wish it good luck, in any case, for its sme access point and i must say that i share the caution of my colleagues expressed in the oral question about a complementary marking and its compatibility with the existing label. i agree with mrs mccarthy in her allegory of the kettle this morning, and i thank the commissioner for making a great deal of progress on this issue. i would like to conclude, madam president, by recalling that the rules of the game we are setting up here are only valid if they are respected by european producers and distributors, of course, but also, and this is essential, by the actors - as mrs de vits has just said - coming from outside, first and foremost the importers.
mr president, i voted for the musotto report because it mentions many things in the name of fraud and the fight against fraud. i also have a feeling of déjà vu when the report mentions, for example, the millions of dollars wrongly paid and ineligible expenditure. for example, the hundreds of millions of euros of european money that have already flowed into the bottomless wells of the corrupt walloon ps state. a state that has had numerous directors in trouble, including money laundering. when the report mentions the lack of supervision by the commission, i am reminded of the words of my colleague from wallonia, mr deprez, who spoke earlier this month about - and i quote - 'bad projects for which not only wallonia but also the commission is responsible because it approves these projects'.
i have naturally voted against the deprez report, mr president, because i fundamentally disagree with the idea that jihadist terrorism is really just a kind of discrimination and so-called social isolation of which muslims in europe are victims. i know many people from my own people, i know many indigenous people who are really victims of social isolation in muslim areas of our big cities and who are not guilty of terrorism at all, quite the contrary. i'm not going to be a part of that mea culpa. the blame for this on the perfidious europeans may be politically correct, but it is not correct in the true sense of the word. when will this parliament finally admit that islamic terrorism has nothing to do with discrimination or social exclusion, but is a direct result of the worldview of islam itself?
in writing. artificial electromagnetic waves have significant health consequences for european citizens, first and foremost for workers, who must be protected from electromagnetic fields as they already are by two european directives setting exposure limit values for noise and vibration. no, electromagnetic fields, emitted by both radios and electronic devices and by various telephone devices - antennas and mobile phones, fixed-base mobile phones and wi-fi - are not without danger! this is what the recent bioinitiative report reveals with its undeniable conclusions: the risk of cancer, alzheimer's disease, nervous problems caused by chronic and/or excessive exposure to electromagnetic waves. a health threat recently relayed by the european environment agency. that is why i voted for the report by mr andersson, which aims to protect the health of workers while taking into account the concerns expressed by the medical community for compatibility of community law with magnetic resonance imaging (mri) techniques. a vital medical practice for some patients, which i think should have been exempted rather than postponing the whole directive by four years!
mr president, mr prime minister, it is a little strange that a debate is being held here on the future of europe without the question of the frontiers of the european union being raised. it is, however, one of the most fundamental problems we face. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the question is whether the european union will remain a european project. this will no longer be the case if turkey joins. if the european union continues to be stubborn and ignore the will of the people, its democratic support will slowly but surely disappear. mr. prime minister, you warned of a wall that might be built against turkey. but it has nothing to do with that. nobody in europe is waiting for nice talks. the copenhagen criteria must be met, including by turkey, and that is clearly not the case. it is therefore time to put an end to these negotiations. that is nothing more or less than the respect of the agreements made.
the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but you must not conclude from this that we have become less concerned about the spring summit and the lisbon strategy. on the contrary, we have simply had the gallantry to give our morning for once to mr corbett and mr méndez de vigo for the discussion of their extraordinary report on the reform treaty, which together with the lisbon strategy is decisive for the future of europe. last week in brussels we discussed the state of play of the strategy with the national parliamentarians and we quickly agreed on one thing: the new approach, which focuses on growth and jobs without forgetting the sustainability dimension, is bearing fruit. the strategy promotes the growth potential of the european economy and creates a climate for job creation: 6.5 million already, 5 million more to come. the commission is proposing to continue on the path we have taken, because we are not there yet. in all member states and at all levels, much improvement is possible and necessary. we have much to learn from each other and we must also make better use of regional opportunities. we will therefore wholeheartedly support the joint resolution on the lisbon strategy. the priorities of our group are clear. investing more in research and innovation and ensuring that intellectual property is well protected are crucial to developing the economy and creating quality jobs in the future. a better business climate is equally essential. the completion of the internal market, better regulation and less red tape are important for all businesses, but even more so for those 23 million smes. that's why the small business act needs to come through and become more than a symbol. we therefore welcome the fact that we have been able to complete the legislative package on the internal market for products this week, but we are not so happy that new labelling rules for food have been proposed which will make the administrative burden unbearable. thirdly, we need to reform the labour market, flexibility and job security must go hand in hand, and we need to invest more in people's skills. finally, we support the 20-20-20 objectives, but in such a way that they create jobs here, not that they export jobs to other continents. finally, the spring summit rightly draws attention to the looming crisis in the financial and insurance markets. we must be absolutely vigilant that this crisis does not undermine our efforts to create growth and jobs. if we keep that in mind, if we stay on course, we can restore people's trust. confidence is stability, and that will enable us to give europe a good future. and that's what we're here to do.
madam president, everyone knows that europe must become even more of a knowledge-based economy, better able to cope with global competition. we should not be entering too many open doors here, we all agree. what we do not agree on, for example, is that the commission sees new mass economic migration as one of the main means of achieving the lisbon objectives. this is absurd. we have enough talent in europe. we have a few tens of millions of unemployed in europe in particular. that is the great challenge for government and for business. it is also true that the european citizen does not want to know about a new wave of immigration. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the new member states are able to apply the provisions of the treaty in their national legislation. but yes, the commission misses the mark more than once. i remember that the european commission a few months ago considered that the political crisis in belgium would slow down the pace of the reforms necessary to achieve the lisbon objectives. the reality is the opposite. the reality is that the belgian political crisis has shown the bankruptcy of the belgian state and that the very existence of belgium prevents flanders from modernising its labour law and its labour market, reducing its social burden, simplifying and reducing its taxes, precisely in order to achieve the lisbon objectives. the european commission is of course not happy to admit that belgium is holding back both flanders and wallonia.
president, mr president-in-office, commissioner, i am frankly disappointed by the lack of social ambition for the spring summit you have shown today. my group continues to believe that there are good reasons to update the lisbon strategy and the integrated guidelines on a number of key points. i will mention three of them in relation to the social dimension. it is true that lisbon has brought growth and jobs, but not everyone has been able to enjoy them. six million young people leave school without a diploma. migrants, people with disabilities, hardly get a job, 16% of europeans live in poverty. it is proof that a strategy of growth and jobs does not automatically lead to social inclusion and decent work for all. we therefore want to see the social dimension of the lisbon strategy strengthened by a new guideline which ensures active social integration for all. second, not all jobs are of good quality. the share of precarious contracts (temporary work, involuntary parttime work, temporary agency work) has increased considerably. women and young people in particular are often stuck in low-quality jobs. in addition, expenditure by member states on active labour market policies, guidance and training has decreased rather than increased. the member states have thus clearly not yet understood that a balanced flex-security approach must combine flexibility and contract security and that active investment in people is a must to counter segmentation in the labour market. we therefore want all the basic principles of flex security to be included in the guidelines, including quality of work and investing in people. thirdly, the social dimension of the lisbon programme is a very thin one. we are promised a new social agenda, and it is good that it will be part of the lisbon package. we do, however, expect the european commission to present an ambitious social agenda, not only with the announcements on demography, training and migration, but also with legislative initiatives to improve the quality of work and to strengthen the fight against poverty and social exclusion. i would like to wish the council, mr president, an extra dose of social ambition for the spring.
commissioner, you were forced to impose maximum prices for roaming. you said last week that you might be forced to do so for the transmission of e-mail. and in the near future, will you not also be obliged to control internet access prices at european level? i know that in some countries there are plans to bring the number of operators closer together, which will reduce the number of operators. in that case, will prices go down? i doubt that, commissioner.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the libe committee expresses its support for the report by our colleagues corbett and méndez de vigo. we particularly welcome the fact that the report emphasizes - this is self-evident, but it is pleasing to recall - that it is in the area of freedom, security and justice that the lisbon treaty brings the most innovation, in particular through the removal of the pillars and the integration of judicial cooperation in criminal matters and police cooperation into the community logic. however, while this breakthrough is important, it is accompanied by a reservation in our sector which is difficult to accept. our colleagues should know that the treaty of lisbon provides that all measures adopted under the third pillar, before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, will remain outside the control of the commission and, even more, outside the control of the european court of justice, for a period of five years, in such sensitive matters as respect for fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms. we are still very much against this restrictive provision, mr president, and today we confirm our determination to render it inoperative for all acts which must be adopted before the end of the current parliamentary term. we want to see an interinstitutional negotiation between parliament, the commission and the council as soon as possible in order to reach agreement on how to overcome this difficulty.
mr president, european integration - and this is what the fathers of european integration have always said - is built up step by step, sometimes in small steps, sometimes in large steps. the rapporteur has rightly emphasized that the lisbon treaty is a major qualitative step forward for europe. you could even speak of a quantum leap. it is comparable to the treaty of rome, when we created the common market, the single act with the single market and the maastricht treaty with monetary union. the maastricht treaty also gave a modest start to political union. by giving the union legal personality and abolishing the pillars, the treaty of lisbon gives europe its definitive political dimension. it needs it to be able to act as a global actor in today's global world and thereby set the standards that that global world needs. the generalization of codecision has also made the process of decisionmaking in this political union more democratic. the next step is to ratify this treaty, and a coordinated text would certainly help to better understand the progress being made. but text is one, ratification is two, implementation is three. that may be the most important thing we have to do right now. i was pleased to hear from the presidency and the commission that they too are beginning to think and work on this implementation, because in this implementation we can still go in different directions, we can also go in the wrong directions if we are not careful. it is therefore also very important that parliament should also be involved in implementing this treaty, so as to set out clearly the way in which it is to be implemented. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we want the progress that is in the treaty.
mr president, with the vote we have just had on the corbett and méndez de vigo reports, this parliament is reaffirming the position we have been adopting for some time, namely the attitude of total disregard for the democratically expressed will of the majority in france, in the netherlands and elsewhere. this parliament claims to represent all the citizens of europe, but in reality they have no say at all. the fact that president pöttering said just now that parliament was expressing the opinion of the majority of european citizens by this vote was a pathetic lie and nothing less. there is no demand for respect for the will of the people, no plea for holding a referendum in each member state. on the contrary, all this parliament is asking is that the copy of the constitution be put into effect as soon as possible. unfortunately, this parliament does not represent the citizens, but only the elitist consensus of official europe.
i voted against the starkeviciute report because the passage on immigration shows the typical shortsightedness we have already suffered. some people seem to want the mistakes of the 1960s and 1970s to be repeated. the only short-term thinking was to import people as commodities. the results of this policy are now being seen in our major cities: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. instead of learning from past mistakes, people stubbornly continue on the same path. it is even worse now that it is proposed to have a so-called complementary european immigration policy on top of the policies of the member states. so there is guaranteed to be even more slackness than there is now and that is the last thing we need.
mr president, like my good friend mr claeys, i voted against this report. oh yes, many of the elements mentioned in this report are undoubtedly true and pertinent. i am thinking, for example, of the modernisation of labour markets, investment in entrepreneurship and simplification of taxation which are being advocated here. but this parliament is completely wrong when it considers a european immigration policy to attract economic immigrants to be a spearhead of the lisbon strategy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat illegal immigration, including the introduction of a system of border controls at the external borders of the union, the rejection of any national policy of mass regularisation and a systematic policy of deportation of illegal immigrants.
the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the draft resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which is to be submitted to the council by the end of the year. in the same way, my country was created in 1830 by breaking away from the federation of states established by the congress of vienna in 1815. the existence of belgium was very quickly recognized by the so-called london conference, in which the united kingdom, prussia, russia, austria and france took part, but the netherlands, from which we had broken away, waited nine years before recognizing belgium. i would have said that to the serbian foreign minister if he had had an ear for it. but that was not the case, because he has explained to us the well-known serbian position without giving any indication of understanding that there are also opposing views. the only bright spot was that he made it clear that serbia would not use any form of violence, extortion or intimidation. now we must all together worry about the future, the future of serbia, the future of kosovo, the future of the whole region. so far, the european union has already spent 3 billion euros on kosovo. for the next 16 months, another 200 million will be added, but that will not be enough. with regard to serbia and all the other countries of the western balkans, we must urgently work on visa facilitation so that normal relations can be established between the citizens of those countries and those of our countries.
president, the declaration of independence by the kosovo parliament last sunday was inevitable and one of the final stages in the disintegration of the former yugoslavia. those who know the situation on the ground know that after nine years of un supervision and 20 years of discrimination before that, kosovo could not simply become part of serbia again. in that sense, the declaration of independence is a fairly normal process. this was done in parliament in a calm, serene and unemotional manner and with full respect for the ahtisaari plan. the kosovo prime minister very explicitly assured the international community of the full protection and respect of minority groups. i would also like to remind my colleagues that all minority groups in kosovo actively support independence. only the serbs are absent in their stubbornness and their wounded pride. in that sense, the speech of the serbian foreign minister is rather unfortunate. but all this does not prevent the future of serbia and the future of kosovo from remaining within the european union. i'm looking forward to it with great excitement.
i think it is strange that we are voting in plenary on a report which still has eight pages of amendments. i thought we would no longer do that in plenary and leave that work to the committee in order to limit the number of amendments that come to the plenary.
madam president, contrary to what this parliament claims, the un human rights council does not play such an important role in the promotion of human rights in the world. how could it be otherwise? only 25 of its 47 members are free democracies, 9 of its members are not free, and 3 of them, china, cuba and saudi arabia, are among the world's worst human rights abusers. these countries are constantly flouting the un declaration on universal human rights and shielding themselves and other regimes from criticism. in some cases, this council has simply eroded human rights oversight. in the world's greatest human rights crisis at the moment, darfur, the council has not yet issued a single condemnation. instead of welcoming such a creature, this parliament should have included such matters in its resolution.
madam president, i would not only like to agree with what my colleague mr koen dillen has just said, but i would also like to refer to the resolution on the insult of religions adopted by the council. this resolution states, quite literally, that people should, and i quote, "speak responsibly and that freedom of expression may be restricted in areas of public health and morality". this resolution is, of course, about the prohibition of any criticism of islam. the un human rights council is thus going against its own official objectives, the protection of the right to freedom of expression and thus also the protection of human rights themselves.
madam president, the merit of the castex report is undoubtedly that it points out the enormous demographic challenges facing europe. granted, a lot of good questions, lines of thought and solutions are listed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of care for children, to give older workers a chance to enter the labour market and to prepare health systems for the accelerated ageing process. on the other hand, this parliament is wrong to regard immigration as an instrument for securing the demographic and economic future of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe already has a million unemployed immigrants with all the problems that go with it. bringing in more immigrants will only exacerbate the existing problems.
in writing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am also pleased that we can conclude this dossier at first reading, and even within a year of the launch of the proposals. this legislation is so necessary that i honestly wonder why consumers and smes have waited so long for it. the principle of mutual recognition was formulated by the court of justice almost 30 years ago and has become a settled case law. however, this is not a systematic approach in the member states. i am convinced that the reversal of the burden of proof which we are actually carrying out is the best way to ensure that this principle is respected and to make the internal market for non-harmonised products work. we are also doing a good job of improving consumer protection through improved market surveillance. in a europe that boasts of its high standards, less is not acceptable. finally, we are putting an end to a number of bad habits of protectionism. the new accreditation system for organisations certifying the conformity of products to harmonised standards will require some administrative work but will lead to better results, a functioning internal market and a more level playing field. the cost savings we make from this package will ultimately lead to more economic growth and jobs. this, together with better consumer protection, is a very good reason for enthusiastically endorsing this package.
in writing. if, despite many reservations about a text that is overall unbalanced, i ended up supporting it, it is because an oral amendment proposed by the epp group has somewhat restored the truth about the current situation in gaza. whatever the responsibilities of the parties involved, it was unacceptable, totally unacceptable, that in paragraph 3 of the text israel and hamas were placed on an equal footing. does israel's concern to protect its own from the daily violence perpetrated by hamas and palestinian militias have anything to do with the indiscriminate bombings (dimona still only recently) or the qassam rocket avalanches that rain daily on sderot, targeting first of all schools, and therefore children, the beating heart of israeli society? we may have different views on the conflict, but the honest people of this parliament will refuse to make israel, a democratic government and country, and hamas, a terrorist movement and listed as such by the european union (a reality, like the repeated refusal to meet the quartet's conditions, which this resolution also singularly conceals) equal partners in the infamy of violence.
mr president, it has already been raised by some colleagues here, and it is certainly not an exaggeration to say that after the attacks on president ramos-horta, east timor is entering a critical phase. i say again, because who doesn't remember the images from last year when after guzmao's appointment hundreds of houses and some government buildings were lit up? indeed, it may be that an international force is necessary to maintain the current state of emergency. but it certainly must not give the impression that the government needs foreign military forces to protect itself from its own people. a foreign military force may be able to maintain stability in the short term, but in the long term the east timorese will have to take care of their own future. the first thing that is needed to ensure political stability, democracy and respect for human rights in the long term is the establishment of an independent and reliable media, the reform of the police and the development of a reliable judicial system.
author. - mr president, i am not going to discuss the situation in the democratic republic of the congo as a whole, but rather the situation in the north-east of the country and in the kivu region, where a dirty war has been going on for years and, even more importantly, for the last few months. you'll tell me all wars are dirty, but this one seems to be dirtier than any. it has caused and continues to cause hundreds of thousands of victims, deaths and displacements, but also hundreds of thousands of women, girls and grandmothers who are victims of what is now commonly called sexual violence. it's much more than that; it is the use of rape as a genuine weapon of war, and it is that all this is happening with a certain indifference, both from public and international opinion, and more particularly from european public opinion. this dirty war has been going on for years and it is the work of rival factions: laurent nkunda's rebels the dissident congolese general , the former rwandan genocidalists, imported into the territory at the end of the 1994 genocide, but also alas elements of the recently defeated congolese army. that's enough of that. fortunately, a peace conference was held very recently in this region, attended by all the protagonists, and resulted in a ceasefire. unfortunately, mr president, this ceasefire is particularly fragile and already tensions are rising again in the region. we therefore propose two main priorities: firstly, to protect the civilian population, to give the monuc forces on the ground the means to defend these civilian populations - in accordance with chapter 7, they can use weapons to fulfil this mission - because these massacres must stop. and secondly, to support the peace efforts that are being discussed there because the solution in this great lakes region would be a political solution that involves everyone, including rwanda, which must respect its commitments to take back its nationals who are active in kivu.
mr president, we know that our words are unlikely to cause much trouble here. we can only hope that all parties will adhere to the agreements reached at the goma conference and that the madness that has gripped north kivu for far too long will finally come to an end. according to the un, some 800,000 people have fled their homes since the fighting began. thousands and thousands of women and girls were victims of horrific rapes, children are forced to fight alongside them. we must not forget that it is certainly not only the nkunda militiamen who are responsible for the mass atrocities. no, all parties, including the government soldiers, have systematically committed crimes against humanity. there aren't too many good guys in north kivu. in the long run, as many guilty people as possible should be brought to justice. they must answer for their atrocities. this is not just the responsibility of the international criminal court, it is primarily the responsibility of the congolese leaders and of joseph kabila.
may i have your attention for world kidney day on thursday, march 13th. you know that chronic kidney disease is a silent epidemic in europe because it often develops without symptoms. the disease is unknown to most citizens and is not considered a priority by policy makers. it is estimated that 8% of europeans are affected and this will double over the next ten years if no action is taken. last week the european kidney health alliance and world kidney day organized a symposium on this subject with an exhibition following, and i also set up an mep group with some colleagues. i am hereby calling on all members to support this initiative, because i am convinced that the european parliament can play an important role in encouraging member states to take urgent action to recognise the scale of the problem and to define the appropriate strategy.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many people have said this before me, but i would like to say it again: i consider the matter before us today to be particularly serious. it is serious, firstly, in the case of our american allies who have deliberately - and we must know that they have deliberately chosen to deal separately with the member states of the european union in matters which they know very well are within the competence of the european union; the commission has already taken the initiative in this area. but it is also serious, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, from the union's point of view. it is a sad sight to see member states marching in one after another, in scattered order, in order to offer their citizens the prospect of visa-free travel to the united states in exchange for security measures which the americans could not negotiate with the union as such. but i am convinced, madam president, commissioner, that this mess is unfortunately the result of a tragic lack of political strategy on our part. so far, the commission and the council have dealt with the us administration case by case, each time at the request of the americans, on a pragmatic basis, and without ever having the courage to demand genuine reciprocity from the americans. i am not saying this about mr frattini, because i know that he tried, but he was not followed. and, if i understand correctly, in view of the gravity and urgency of the situation, the commission is now asking for an explicit negotiating mandate to ensure that the us side respects what it should have respected from the beginning, namely community law and the union's powers. we will support the commission's efforts in this area, but remember that you will need parliament. you will need parliament especially when the treaty has been ratified, because nothing you do now can come into force unless parliament at some point gives you its consent. tell that to your successor, whether temporary or permanent.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you are looking at a proposal for a new framework regulation on aviation safety, which you are all very familiar with. i thank you for all the work and efforts you have put into bringing about a positive outcome in a conciliation process which has been long and difficult. we are now at the final stage of the road to a new framework regulation, further proof of better regulation. the council formally completed the third reading on 4 march of this balanced and beneficial text which is important for industry and passengers. it is now up to you, members of the european parliament, to complete this process. i thank mr costa for inviting parliament to follow this text and thus allowing the conciliation to be successful. in this conciliation, everyone has shown compromise. but i think i can say that parliament has won because the majority of the amendments and ideas proposed are in the text on which you are going to vote. i understand your expectations about the funding principle. i have made a very firm personal commitment during the conciliation, mr president costa, ladies and gentlemen. if i may quote myself: i intend, as i said, to submit to the commission a draft legislative proposal on the sharing of the costs between taxpayers and users of the stricter aviation safety measures that member states may adopt beyond the basic standards provided for in this new regulation. this is without prejudice to the commission's right of initiative and to the respect of internal procedures, including the carrying out of an appropriate impact assessment before any legislative proposal. in addition, the adaptation to the new comitology decision will give the european parliament, through the introduction of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, greater power over the general rules which the commission is called upon to draw up following the adoption of the framework regulation. while allowing more flexibility in the means of adapting the legislation of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny, all this offers a counterweight in the general implementing legislation. so in all these situations we are making progress institutionally. i would remind you of the statement made on article 4. the commission declares its intention to propose general measures within the meaning of the current article 4 (1a) and detailed implementing measures within the meaning of the current article 4 (2). the commission intends to make use of article 251 of the treaty on european union to propose any addition of essential elements to the common basic standards provided for in this regulation. the commission notes that it is important to allow for the development of detailed enforcement measures through methods that not only ensure effective detection and deterrence, but also allow for the necessary flexibility and speed, while respecting the confidentiality of sensitive documents in order to protect travellers. the commission also notes that the continuity of the implementing rules is ensured until they are replaced by new measures adopted under this regulation. the new regulation allows the development of better adapted legislation, better able to address safety issues in a holistic and flexible way, rather than through a series of individual and repetitive approaches. initial estimates by the european airline association suggest that costs could be reduced by up to 500 million as a result of more flexible methods. i will summarize, mr president. this new regulation, when adopted, will make it easier to adopt provisions with third countries, which have equally high levels of aviation safety. this concept, called one stop security, is in the interest of passengers, but also in the interest of the aviation sector in the european union. and then, the latest technological developments will allow us, i hope, to amend the total ban on liquids on aircraft by the beginning of next year. as soon as the appropriate technologies for detecting liquid explosives are available, i will endeavour to take account of this new situation at the regulatory level. and the european parliament will have the opportunity to consider any road map for changing the rules on this. ladies and gentlemen of the house, it has been a long journey. it took a lot of effort on the part of everyone to find that compromise which allows the adoption of this new regulation. this new regulation will not only improve aviation safety, but will also reduce costs, simplify rules and protect civil aviation more effectively. so i thank parliament for the work it has done in drawing up this legislative proposal and i naturally hope with all my heart that you will support it and that it will be adopted.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. and also how huge the impact could be for the economy and therefore for each of us. it is therefore important that we do everything we can to ensure maximum safety, and to do that it is of course essential that we achieve maximum harmonisation at european level. but at the same time we must also strike a balance between security on the one hand and comfort, privacy and freedom of movement on the other, as the rapporteur has just stressed. and that has always been our task as a delegation of the european parliament during the negotiations, and i think we have worked well with mr costa and mr jarzembowski across the political groups, also in the mediation, pulling together and saving a great deal of money, as the commissioner has rightly said. that does not mean that we are completely satisfied. everything will depend on how the agreements made on the ground are implemented. in two essential areas: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. we have succeeded in maintaining parliament's involvement to a large extent through the new comitology procedure with scrutiny, and we have de facto obtained a kind of veto power if we consider that the proposed measures would be disproportionate. there is therefore room for interpretation, for debate, and i think the ban on liquids has made it clear that this is also necessary. we cannot allow a committee of experts to be given carte blanche without any accountability, and so i think this new form of democratic control is a definite plus. we can only play this role properly if the commission keeps us informed and keeps us informed, and i think that will be very important. we must also develop a good procedure internally in parliament to do this in an adequate way. secondly, we know that we have not got quite what we wanted in terms of financing security measures. we wished to remain logical with ourselves. we assume that the security measures agreed by europe are sufficient for everyone. if member states have to do more or want to do more, they must also bear the financial responsibility for doing so. we have not yet reached that stage, but i am confident, commissioner, that the commitment you have made will lead to a new debate and to real results in the future. in any case, we now have a framework which should enable us to take rapid security measures, but at the same time ensure adequate democratic control. the future will tell whether the system works to everyone's satisfaction. my group will also support this.
it is, in my view, already at the very beginning of the presentation of the commission's policy strategy for 2009 that it is going completely wrong. the main idea is being put forward. i quote: "citizens first". well, in english, they say, this is "adding insult to injury". the european citizen is not put first by the commission, nor is he respected by the european commission. what is the european commission? the european commission is, after all, little more than a body of politically appointed officials with very limited democratic legitimacy, and that european commission belongs to that club of european mandarins who think they know everything better than the citizens and that they decide everything best and supposedly in the general interest, over the heads of those supposedly respected citizens. that is the democratic deficit that everyone talks about but nobody does anything about. if the citizen really comes first, the commission would insist on consulting the citizen, especially on the most important issues currently on the table. when will the people be allowed to express their views on this new european constitution in disguise? the citizens of the netherlands and france have expressed their views on this matter not so long ago, but it seems that the european commission does not give priority to these citizens. when will the european citizen be allowed to express his opinion on the disastrous immigration policy which the european mandarins are pushing down his throat? when will the european citizen be allowed to decide for himself and be respected in his opinion on a vital issue such as the potential accession of the islamic and in many ways, in all respects non-european country turkey to our european union? the citizens of the european union are only put first in order to pay taxes for the european mandarins and for the policies which these privileged people impose on their heads. then at least have the courage to say that europe will never be a democratic europe!
mr president, the commission communication has said a great deal about foreign affairs, and yet it leaves me a little bit hungry. it is true that heading 4 is underfunded. yes, we will have to pay more, unfortunately, for palestine and for kosovo. but that's a fact, not a strategy. i would like to know, for example, what are the political conditions for aid to be effective, not just visible, but effective. how can we use financial instruments to make europe a necessary soft power, a democratic model, and not just a cash drawer? how are we going to use conditionality? all these questions, though vital, are not addressed. one example, and not the only one: we have never paid so much money for palestine, the people of gaza have never been so poor since 1967, and the escalation of violence continues in the middle east, where we are constantly rebuilding what has been destroyed. what is the lesson for us? as long as there is no perfect coherence between european foreign policy and its financial instruments, the latter serving the former and not the other way around, europe will never be the global player it wants to be and in this respect i think the commission's communication is singularly lacking in ambition.
mr president, mr president of the commission, madam commissioner, as regards the european union in the world, the european socialists share the commission's concern to continue the work begun in 2006 to improve the efficiency of the way in which it cooperates. i would remind you that there is still a great deal of work to be done, whether it be defining development itself, ensuring coherence between the various policies of the european union, coordinating donors or ensuring that actions are complementary. as regards the economic partnership agreements, i would like to point out that it is essential for us european socialists to consider them first and foremost from the point of view of development, that is to say, from the point of view of their capacity to significantly improve the lives of the people of the acp countries. it is essential that the commission's 2009 strategy is perfectly clear in this respect. that does not seem to be quite the case at the moment. we all know that additional funds will be needed to finance accompanying measures to offset the negative impact of the economic partnership agreements on the world's poorest countries. we would like the commission to clarify where these funds will come from. we also regret that the commission document does not contain any specific proposals for the implementation of the millennium development goals before 2015. is it because there is no ambition in this area or because 2009 will mark a radical change in the paradigm of european development policy? in the annex, the commission note also refers to the implementation of the first action plan of the eu-africa strategy. we welcome this and, above all, we urge the commission to make every effort to ensure that the first actions to be undertaken under this new strategy are in line with the legitimate expectations of millions of africans who are directly concerned by the success of this strategy.
in writing. − i wanted to support the proposal for a european institute of technology initially, because it fills the existing gap between higher education, research and innovation, an important fact for the economy and the internal market. the eit therefore seems to be a brilliant project, except that the funding is not adequately provided. i therefore do not support the present proposal and the council's common position, mainly because the budget is inadequate. the commission proposed a reasonable amount to cover the needs of the kics (knowledge and innovation communities) for 6 years. the council is cutting the budget to the extent that this is no longer possible. however, an eit impact assessment study showed that sound basic funding is an essential success factor. in its present form, kics are forced to seek external funding in other community programmes, which are not intended for this purpose. the member states will therefore have to provide the financing themselves, as if private sponsorship could be counted on. with this proposal, the project is doomed to fail. finally, the fact that climate change as a focus for the first kics was explicitly removed from the proposal no longer makes my support desirable.
the chairman of the council. − the presidency of the council welcomes the report by rapporteur lutz goepel as a very important and also a significant contribution to the debate. the council also had a lot of work to do in preparing its response to the commission's communication. as you know, it was discussed by the ministers at three council meetings in november, january and february. next week, we will also try to reach certain conclusions with the ministers regarding the joint reform health check-up communication. we will do so on the basis of some general principles. it follows that, when adopting the reform of the common policy in 2003, the council clearly stated its intention to evaluate in future the effectiveness of the reforms adopted, in particular their impact in relation to the objectives pursued and the effects on agricultural markets. it is also important to note that decisions on health reform will take into account the european council conclusions on the financial perspective 2007-13 and the european council's call to the commission to carry out a comprehensive review of the eu budget and its expenditure in 2008-09. the presidency agrees with the commission that the review of the cap constitutes an important part of the preparatory work for the budgetary review in 2008/09, but it does not prejudge the conclusions in this respect. we note that the reforms of 2003-04 have largely achieved the objectives set, both in terms of responding to market conditions and in bringing agricultural policy closer to the citizen. the ministers are also convinced that the commission's communication correctly assesses the main developments following the reforms adopted in those years. the council will pay particular attention to three key issues: the single payment scheme, of course, the role of market-support instruments in the market, and of course, responding to existing and emerging challenges in the area of climate change risk management, among others. we will strive to strike the right balance between adapting policy to new challenges and changing circumstances and maintaining a clear and stable framework. as regards simplification, i would like to say that the european council has attached a key importance to this issue and we also expect the commission to identify concrete measures to achieve this objective. as i have already said, the council will try to reach conclusions next week on these and many other issues, such as risk management and so on, the milk quota, the transition to abolition in this respect, the issues related to the second pillar, and your report will undoubtedly make a valuable contribution to the further discussion on this.
member of the commission. − mr president, once again i want to thank the committee on agriculture and rural development and mr goepel in particular for their hard work, resulting in an excellent report. we are at the stage in the first round where we have consulted many stakeholders and different organisations and individuals to have their opinions and to collect different ideas. the opinion of the european parliament is crucial, together with the expected conclusions of the council next week, as we work to finalise the legislative proposals scheduled to be adopted by the commission on 20 may. immediately thereafter, on the same day here in strasbourg, i will be presenting to the european parliament the legal texts. but, basically, i am quite happy to see that all the three institutions – the european parliament, the council and the commission – although we have different ‘shopping lists’, are all in the same shop. i will not go into detail on the different issues, but will give my view on the three most important ones. firstly, on direct payments: these are inevitably linked to the long-term security that we want to give to our farmers. i therefore agree with the statement in your report that direct payments remain necessary as a basic income guarantee. the single payment scheme gives a real lift to the competitiveness of our farmers, but we must make the system more effective, more efficient and simpler. therefore, i advocate further decoupling. our experiences with the 2003 reform show that the decoupling has been working quite well and, therefore, i think we should move further and extend the benefits of decoupling, except where coupled payments have a very solid justification. i have also noticed that you support the idea of a more flexible article 69 as a valuable tool. however, we should not expect article 69 to solve all the different problems, and i will fight any attempt to re-introduce coupled support through the backdoor using article 69. i will not go into detail about the dairy sector again, as we have already had this discussion. however, i will just mention some of the market instruments: intervention and private storage. like you, i recognise that some of our market instruments still have a place, but we must keep them relevant to the european union as it is now. i am glad that we agree that they should play their role in the future as genuine safety nets. risks related to bad weather and outbreaks of animal diseases, as you highlight, are certainly a focus point in our discussion. however, we are not starting from zero: the council discussed this issue in 2005 and concluded that new measures at eu level should not interfere with what is already available in the different member states. we have to be sure that new measures do not interfere with farmers’ ability to react to market signals, and they have to be compatible with the wto system, where there has to be a loss of more than 30%. concerning modulation, i have made it clear on many occasions that we need to have for the future a very ambitious rural development policy. i was very disappointed with the fact that, during the discussions on the financial perspective at the end of 2005, the heads of state and government agreed to take a significant part off the rural development funding. however, i must say that your report is rather cool about my ideas in this area. but i think that we can justify the fact that our rural development policy is financially overstretched. if we have high expectations for our rural development policy, including the need, as the president-in-office rightly said, to use it to meet new challenges, like water management and bio-diversity, then it does not work to load more tasks on to it without putting in more money. i think modulation is the best way to provide more funding. i have read with interest what you are proposing and i am sure we will come back to this issue. if your report is cool on modulation, i would describe it as extremely chilly on reductions of payments to large farms – you call that ‘degressivity’. this is not an issue that can be simply ignored. we know that with our transparency initiative, there will be a strong focus from all sides on the large sums of money going to single farmers and single landowners. on the other hand, i take everyone’s concerns on this issue very seriously. and i have looked with interest at your report’s concept of ‘progressive modulation’. i think there are some good ideas there that we would consider carefully on the legal proposals. if i have been a little too long, it is only to show clearly my dedication and my huge interest in having the opportunity to discuss here in parliament the future of the european agricultural policy.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. - i speak on behalf of kathalijne buitenweg, rapporteur for the committee on the environment, who has apologised for being ill. the committee on the environment made 17 recommendations, and i shall emphasize four of them. the committee on the environment welcomes the commission's communication to tackle the problem of climate change and to support less intensive farming practices. the second. the committee on the environment stresses the need to achieve sustainable and multifunctional agriculture, and calls for the introduction of ecological and organic farming. the third. the european commission is urged not to weaken existing cross compliance measures i.e. environmental and animal welfare measures and their compatibility by so-called simplification. on the contrary, we believe that the preconditions can be strengthened in various areas, for example in the use, management and quality of water. 4. other a word of caution to the commission: commission, be a little more cautious about the concept of so-called biofuels. its usefulness is questionable and certainly not unambiguously good, either for the environment or for society.
member of the commission. − the amount of retaliation would be determined by the wto implementation panel. but potential retaliation could be very significant. indeed, it could run to hundreds of millions of dollars’ worth of trade. it could be applied to eu products coming from different member states, not only those that have adopted national safeguard measures against gmos. so those member states responsible would not only be putting their own producers and exporters at direct risk of retaliation. they would, through their actions, be putting in jeopardy the exporters of many member states besides their own. i hope that they will consider these implications and these consequences when they come to review the action they are taking.
member of the commission. − i think that what we are seeing is a great deal of misinformation, misrepresentation and scaremongering, which is influencing some sections of public opinion. i think that if there were a more representative range of information sources and more objective information given to our public, and some of the ramifications and consequences of some of these actions taken into account, then they would quite possibly come to other conclusions. of course consumers should know what they are consuming. consumers should also have a choice between gmo and non-gmo. at the moment they are being denied that choice by prejudice against gmos.
member of the commission. − things have moved on since the commission’s update to the committee on development in january of this year. the legal texts have been jointly checked for the caribbean economic partnership agreement, and we are beginning the process leading to signature and ratification. in other regions, we have been preparing the interim agreements for signature and have been reflecting on how to replace these with full epas. i have just returned from a visit to southern and eastern africa taking in lesotho, south africa, botswana and zambia. i held ministerial meetings with the sadc and esa regions, and i had extensive discussions with president mbeki on both epas and the dda, incidentally. i was struck in all meetings with esa and sadc by the commitment of the regions to move forward with the negotiations, not to look back and not to unravel what has been achieved, with all the disastrous implications for trade security that that unravelling would have. this was reflected in joint declarations in which we made clear our shared commitment to agree full epas by the end of this year. we have also held senior official meetings with central africa and west africa in recent days. central africa wants a full epa by july, and west africa intends to reach a full epa in mid-2009. finally, the pacific region is consulting internally, but the agreed objective remains to finalise a full epa in 2008. my clear sense is that most of the regions are now coming out of a period of stock-taking and reflection after the developments of last december and are clearly restating their commitment to move towards full epas. this is an important sign that their commitment to integrating trade and development strategies in a progressive, forward-looking way. it is a commitment i welcome. our objectives for full epas for whole regions and covering the full range of trade, trade-related and development issues remain unchanged. in the mean time non-ldcs like kenya, côte d’ivoire and others say they have protected thousands of agricultural jobs through the interim agreements, and ldcs like tanzania and lesotho praise improvements in rules of origin. sensitive agricultural sectors are protected, and the acp now have time and space to work out how to reach full regional agreements. epas need to be closely monitored in both aid and trade aspects. this is why the caribbean epa establishes compressive monitoring arrangements, including parliamentary and other consultative subcommittees. the interim agreements will be replaced with full epas that include similar provisions before any substantive liberalisation commitments apply on the acp side.
commissioner, i'll take note of your answer. we shall examine this in more detail. but you cannot deny that most of the acp countries have a very poor negotiating capacity and yet sometimes they are faced with a block, with a fait accompli. i met last week - and this has nothing to do with the acp countries - a trade union leader from guatemala, mr pinzon, who told me about his difficult situation as a trade union leader in the negotiations between the european union and central america. this is a common situation in countries where certain groups of the population and certain positions are extremely weak. my question is: can you make sure that in trade agreements of this kind, both in the epas and in those with other blocs in the world, such as central america, that certain rights, for example trade union rights and international labour rights, are imposed in a binding way so that they are respected? i am not an expert on the subject, but i have the impression that there are important gaps in the agreements.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would of course like to thank mr staes for his excellent work as rapporteur and the environment and agriculture committees for their contribution to the debate on this proposal for a regulation. the proposal is part of the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides. the objective of this thematic strategy is to reduce the impact of pesticides on human health and the environment. the proposal for a regulation under discussion today contributes to this objective by ensuring that reliable and comparable data are collected in all member states, so that harmonised risk indicators can be calculated. the commission proposal is the result of years of work with the oecd and research bodies on the development of these risk indicators. our initial intention in the commission was to cover all types of pesticides, including biocides. however, the preparatory phase of the legislation made it clear that this sector, that of biocides, is somewhat harmonised and neither the commission nor the member states have sufficient experience or knowledge to propose concrete measures on biocides, so the decision was to exclude this category of products from the initial proposal, which is subject to its consideration. i know that mr staes' report defends this inclusion, but we had reasons to consider finally non-inclusion. i can assure the rapporteur and all of you, however, that the commission will take the opportunity afforded by the revision of the biocidal products directive, due to be completed by the end of this year, to make a proposal which covers this sector in a coherent way, including the collection of data. the report by mr staes also calls for the extension of the scope of the regulation to non-agricultural uses of plant protection products, including production and marketing statistics. in our proposal we decided to leave these data outside the scope of the regulation to avoid overlaps with other statistical regulations on production and marketing, overlaps which would have the effect of increasing the administrative cost of producing these statistics. we are, however, open to examining how to make the most of existing production and marketing statistics for the benefit of the objectives of the thematic strategy. i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, by recalling the high economic cost of implementing this regulation, which ranges from eur 10 to eur 25 million per year in an initial estimate for the union of 25, which leads us to recommend that member states be given sufficient flexibility in applying this regulation. i am confident that, with good cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission, we can reach an agreement as soon as possible, since, as you know, the process of collecting this data is long, complex and takes about five years. it would be desirable for the regulation to be applicable as soon as possible and, of course, once the framework directive on the thematic strategy has been adopted. finally, i would like to thank mr staes again for his excellent work on a very complex proposal, but at the same time one of enormous importance for the environment and human health.
- i'm the reporter. - i think the commissioner has summed up his point very well on a number of points. the commission's proposal for the regulation on statistics and pesticides is indeed directly linked to the thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides. the commissioner has also made it very clear. the aim is to achieve european harmonisation of national statistics on the use and placing on the market of pesticides. and that has to be done at the level where that is functionally best possible; the aim is therefore - and this is an important objective - to reduce the risks and burden on the environment and human health resulting from the use of pesticides in the medium term. in drawing up my report i had four objectives: 1. ensure sufficient comparability of data; 2. ensure that no duplication of data is made; 3. extend the scope of application to non-agricultural uses; 4. other make the most of the data thus obtained through good reporting practices. i think i have achieved those four objectives after the vote in the committee on the environment, but i know there are still difficulties. the european people's party, in particular, was urged by the shadow rapporteur, mr nassauer, to ensure that the collection of data was regulated in a good, correct and adequate way, both in terms of confidentiality and in terms of openness and transparency. i think we have had very constructive discussions, mr nassauer, and your concerns have been realised, including in the vote in the committee on the environment. we have obtained a practically unanimous majority there. we also managed to find a good wording for the extension of the scope to the non-agricultural sector. we are now opting for data collection in agriculture and horticulture, but also in the professional, non-agricultural circuit, such as road maintenance, railway maintenance and municipal green areas. the socialist group has finally included the whole concept of biocide, which the commissioner also mentioned, in the report. that is why i, on behalf of my group, together with the pse group, have tried to overcome this problem by putting forward two amendments based on a text which we approved earlier, at first reading, following mrs claß's report. i know that this is still difficult for the epp group, for mr nassauer, but i hope that this will not be an insurmountable obstacle to the final vote, since we are trying to conform to a majority in the european parliament. another point of contention with the epp group, ladies and gentlemen, is the decision by the committee on the environment to extend the scope of the regulation on the sale and use of pesticides to include the production, import, export and distribution of pesticides. the epp fears that this will create additional burdens for businesses. i would like to say that i have no doubt about that, mr nassauer, because the data are available anyway and there is no need to make any additional calculations. contrary to what mr nassauer claims, i am convinced that the inclusion of this data will provide a better picture of undesirable and even illegal flows. i think that this knowledge will be useful in achieving one of the aims of the regulation, which has also been clearly stated by the commissioner, namely to reduce the risks and the burden on the environment and public health caused by pesticides. i also believe that these two arguments will ensure that, should cases come before the wto from third countries, they can be counteracted. i thank my colleagues for the very constructive cooperation. i hope that we will be able to find a large majority for my report so that i can have a good negotiation with the council on the second reading. i also thank the commission for the excellent cooperation and also the eurostat officials who were always available and who have been really very helpful in producing this report. thank you, colleagues.
- i'm the reporter. - colleagues, thank you for all your encouraging words. i believe i have found a lot of support in this house. the commissioner said in his opening remarks: the commission, the council and parliament are converging. it was not possible to achieve this at first reading. this was really impossible, despite the fact that i have also had two meetings with the presidency, both the slovenian and the portuguese presidencies. the fact that these views are converging is shown by what the commissioner said about biocides. he says that the commission is considering revising that directive. i want to keep a lid on this and i trust that the wording in the proposal for a regulation based on what we have already adopted in the klaß report is a lid on this. secondly, i certainly take note of the commission's offer to make the best possible use of the existing statistics on pesticide production, which is an important contribution to the debate, also going forward to the second reading. colleagues, thank you again, i'm not going to elaborate any further, it's getting late and i think we all deserve some relaxation.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. at least, if we are to take responsibility for those who come after us in an age of globalisation, of climate change, of technological change and of ageing. we are certainly united in our support for the objectives and the approach to achieve them, and of course we expect everyone to do what they have to do and that there is sufficient pressure at all political levels to achieve real results. as the group coordinator for the lisbon strategy, i would like to stress that we very much appreciate the fact that the commission is now also coming up with a community lisbon programme. each of the ten points is supported by us, and this applies both to the small business act which has been announced. but on the condition that the small business act is more than mere lip service to the smes. this act, mr president, must therefore be more than the charter for smes adopted at that time, years ago, in santa maria da feira. a relevant small business act should ensure that the best possible environment is created for smes to operate, both for micro and small and medium-sized enterprises. one condition is absolutely necessary and must be applied to all policy measures, whether they are substantive or purely simplifying: think small first. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is only in this way that we will be able to really reach those enterprises which make up the bulk of the number of enterprises, but, more importantly, which provide the bulk of employment and the increase in employment. it would be nice, members of the commission and of the council, if that principle could be agreed on in a good, solid and binding way by tomorrow's spring summit. thank you for your attention.
i would like to express my surprise at the fact that the situation with turkey has not been put on the agenda of this week's summit. it has always been claimed that the negotiation process with turkey would be in step with the reform process in turkey. well, it turns out the opposite. the reform process has virtually come to a standstill, but the negotiations are still ongoing. what we can all see is that turkey is stepping up its provocations. freedom of expression is structurally hampered by article 301 of the criminal code. the turkish government had promised to abolish or at least reform the article by the turn of the year, but nothing has happened. the turkish government was laconic in saying that there was a higher priority, namely the lifting of the headscarf ban in universities. islamization and the stealthy dismantling of the secular state seem to be taking priority. the turkish prime minister, mr erdogan, then came to germany to urge the turks living there not to conform too much and to demand the establishment of turkish universities in europe. erdogan behaved like a kind of conqueror who came to see his troops in an occupied territory. turkey has also been bombing positions in northern iraq for weeks. some ten thousand turkish soldiers have invaded the country. it is a bit like croatia, another candidate country, attacking montenegro. it would be absurd, of course, and no one in the european union would accept such a thing, but turkey can apparently afford anything. so my question is, mr president, how long will the european union continue to behave like a kind of 'suffering object' in the negotiations with turkey?
my name is not martin schulz, my name is simply frank vanhecke, and i am apparently not a first-class member of parliament and therefore i have no right to express my opinion at any time, in any debate, at any time, for any length of time, and that is why i have to turn to explanations of vote every now and then, like a mere mortal and not like the most holy of all saints, mr schulz. that said, i now turn to mrs klaß's report. i do not deny that women in rural areas and elsewhere undoubtedly have difficult times and i am of course, like any sensible person, in favour of measures to improve the position of people from disadvantaged areas, including through education. that's all very obvious, that's open door entrapment. the only question i ask myself is: is this a european competence? is it a task at european level to intervene in this or is this report just another example of european interference with health insurance, social insurance and so on. i think this second one is. i think that the subsidiarity of this report is being trampled on once again. i think, when we see all this, that europe is becoming a kind of big brother, which frankly scares me.
in writing. - the lisbon treaty leaves the five objectives of the cap unchanged from the current treaty. the treaty provides, among other things, for reasonable prices to be guaranteed. this objective is more relevant than ever to consumers. another problem is the efficiency of the present european agricultural policy. we must not be blind to the negative aspects of the present cap: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the farmers are not left behind. i have often repeated the words of commissioner fischer boel, when she says that one does not have to be sick to have a 'health check'. we must dare to ask whether the current agricultural policy is adapted to developments on the (world) market and to the needs of the eu27. the debate on the 'health check' is also an opportunity to keep agricultural policy accountable to public opinion. the european citizen expects food security, food safety and a measure of food sovereignty. with this own-initiative report, parliament is giving its weight to the scales and providing the commission with a solid input.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, the report by ana gomes is excellent and it is also a tour de force. on a sensitive subject such as iraq, which has divided us for so long, this report manages to take a fresh, constructive look without using the language of the wood, which is not surprising from ana gomes. it was adopted by a very large majority in the committee on foreign affairs and i would like to highlight two points among many others. firstly, ana gomes calls for the creative use of all the instruments at the commission's disposal to rebuild appropriate capacity in iraq in the areas of the rule of law, justice, human rights, good governance, women, health, education. ana gomes says it and writes it forcefully: iraq does not need money, it is a potentially rich country, but it is completely destroyed administratively and humanly. it therefore calls for more bilateral projects, supporting capacity building and civil society, and it underlines the courage of the commission, which has even opened a delegation in baghdad to follow these projects more closely and give greater visibility to european efforts. secondly, ana gomes is concerned, beyond iraq, to look at the plight of iraqi refugees. according to a recent report by the unhcr, there are now more than two million refugees in neighbouring countries, but it is in syria 1,400,000 and jordan nearly half a million that the situation is becoming explosive. it is accompanied by prostitution and child labour, despite the efforts of these countries. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in short, for any future policy towards iraq, including budgetary policy, this report will be absolutely essential in the short and perhaps in the medium term. i would remind you that the rapporteur visited that country twice, as has been said, immediately before he submitted his analysis. when you know the difficulties of the terrain, you can only applaud his courage.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, for many months now we have been asking for and following very closely the initiatives of the european union to bring about the deployment of eufor in chad and the central african republic as soon as possible, since it is of course essential that this european transitional force should be operational. why is this important? i think it's good to remember that; the european union is also committed to the protection of refugees and displaced civilians, and to the delivery of humanitarian aid and the respect of a humanitarian space which is systematically violated by the parties to the conflict. the european socialists stress, however, that the solution to a lasting peace in chad will not only be military but also political. on the political front, chadian civil society has proposed a number of concrete ways out of the crisis, based on a comprehensive dialogue involving all the actors in this crisis, including the leaders of armed movements, without whose collaboration nothing will be possible. today we can ask ourselves whether the european union has taken these proposals into account, and the words of the commissioner are encouraging in that regard. we sometimes get the impression, and this civil society to which i refer also feels that the european union continues to place blind faith in president déby's alleged ability to solve the crisis. yet the facts demonstrate more and more every day that president deby will never be able to bring the peace we want to chad on his own. we therefore welcome the statements which have just been made on behalf of the european commission. we hope that it will continue to show political courage and audacity in this matter.
it's a great program, but it's got some concerns. first of all, of course, the budget, 150 million euros, which is far too little - that has already been mentioned here - for a sector which you yourself say will be one of the booming sectors of the future. the rapid implementation of these instruments is crucial for the well-being of the elderly, but it is also crucial for the public finances, for the national treasury, and it is a sector with great economic prospects. mr van nistelrooy has already pointed this out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a second comment - and i agree 100% with the rapporteur's comments -: there must be no division, no division, as mr chatzimarkakis has already said, between the elderly who are sufficiently educated and who can afford to use these new technologies and others who cannot cope with them and who simply do not have the means to install them in their homes. such a duality would, moreover, be completely contrary to the main purpose of the programme, which is to enable as many elderly people as possible to remain at home for as long as possible. of course, it is much cheaper than sending seniors to a hospital or to a nursing home. and it is, of course, also the best thing for the well-being of the elderly. and that's the point. finally, it is crucial that these innovative instruments remain affordable for all seniors, irrespective of their personal financial situation.
i would like to make a very brief point, commissioner, but i think it is useful to point out that caution is obviously required here. i also think it is useful to point out to the public what is at stake here, because the critics are of course prepared to sell this as a pure tax increase, whereas certainly the parliament's proposal is a very modest measure and to propose this as a tax increase would of course be disastrous in this context of very high prices. this proposal, which we hope will be adopted tomorrow, is a good first step towards finally eliminating a distortion of competition which has existed for many years, especially in border regions, and it is also good for the environment, which has been taken into account. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are counting on the european commission and all of us to play a very aggressive, very aggressive and proactive role in the development and promotion of environmentally friendly fuels and, in other words, an effective policy of phasing out fossil fuels, for petrol and diesel.
i think there is a good side to this report. it provides an interesting overview of the state of development cooperation in the new member states. that's a good thing. but i think that this report is, above all, a missed opportunity. instead of encouraging the new member states to commit themselves to the classic european objectives of development aid, this parliament would actually do better to have a full debate on those objectives themselves and on whether it is still sensible today to simply continue with the classic form of development aid. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact is that the main causes of poverty, hunger, insecurity and enormous social and economic problems, especially in the developing countries of africa, are actually the very bad regimes of utterly corrupt potentates. the new member states are called upon to organise information and awareness campaigns. i agree with that, but can we inform people that in africa the expenditure on arms is greater than the total income from development aid? or that african tycoons have more billions in swiss banks than many years of development aid combined. if there is one signal that europe should give, it is that only democratic legal systems guarantee real improvement and that then development aid will work and be useful, which unfortunately is not the case at the moment.
for the pse group i would like to express my full support for the report by mr feleknas uca on behalf of my group and congratulate the commissioner on this gender strategy. almost all countries signed up to the mdgs eight years ago. half the time has passed and it looks as if most of the targets will not be met in africa. women play an indispensable role in the fight against poverty, but they still lack equal access to education, health, employment and property. their social status is low and violence against women is widespread. at the same time, in most of the strategic programmes of our partner countries, women are simply silenced. the gender dimension must therefore be at the heart of the political dialogue with the partner countries and women's organisations must be involved in policy. i find it outrageous that colleagues from the epp and uen groups want to remove the clear language on sexual and reproductive health from the report. because if women can decide about their bodies and their desire to have children, not only can millions of women's lives be saved, but children can have more opportunities and communities can be stronger. anyone who denies this undermines the consensus on population and development that the world community endorsed in 1994; we won't let this happen. one last word: i support 100% the call by my green colleagues for the appointment of an eu envoy for women's rights. such an ambassador can give women in the world a face and a voice in europe and remind governments and occasionally commissioners of their commitment.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, exceptionally, i shall not be speaking on the report itself, which i congratulate the author on, but on the amendments which will be put to our vote shortly, to say that the amendments proposed to the report by our colleagues from the num are, in my view, scandalous in their own right. (applause) i would like to thank by refusing to take into account or refer to the problem of contraception in this report, the une is simply refusing to recognise the right of women in the south to a life of dignity. it is not only outrageous, but it is also irresponsible and hypocritical, when you know that the lack of serious family planning policy condemns to unnecessary suffering, disease and death millions of people around the world, starting with the women and children they bring into the world, too often, against their will. the amendments proposed by the ppe-de group are no less regrettable. they simply rephrase the situation, refusing to consider the recognition of women's right to control their fertility. in the vast majority of developing countries, girls, even little girls, women continue to suffer from significant discrimination and intolerable violence. those who refuse to consider that in these countries it should be up to each woman to have full control over her own destiny are clearly refusing to consider women as equal to men. but reproductive health should not be a cause for alarm. it only implies the possibility of responsible, satisfying and safe sex, and the freedom for women to choose to have children if and when they want to. this health concept assumes that women and men have an equal right to choose safe, effective, affordable and acceptable methods of contraception.
i have already pointed out yesterday the inviolable position of turkey as a candidate country, and this report merely confirms this special status. turkey has been bombing northern iraq for weeks, and ten thousand turkish soldiers have invaded this country. and what is this parliament doing instead of clearly condemning this aggression? it kindly requests turkey to respect the territorial integrity of iraq. all the rules, principles, guidelines and criteria must be given up for turkish accession, from the copenhagen criteria to the international law prohibition of the use of aggression. turkey considers itself above all laws and is constantly being strengthened by europe in this respect. this attitude will one day severely damage the european union.
in writing. - i regret that the european parliament has not yet made any analysis of the war in iraq. in fact, in recent years parliament has been deafeningly silent and has not even opposed the lying communications of the bush administration. for a democratic institution like parliament, this can count! it is difficult to maintain our credibility if we do not even take action against member states that violate the un charter. mr gomes is making an assessment of the situation in iraq. the report on the role of the european union in iraq contains some good recommendations for the reconstruction of the country. various themes are mentioned and all the proposals for action seem to me feasible. i particularly welcome the proposals to make multilateral efforts under the auspices of the united nations and to initiate intensive diplomatic talks between the united states and the countries surrounding iraq. the aim must be to establish a democracy in iraq based on the principles of the rule of law, good governance and human rights. i therefore support the report.
two points in this debate. i have no problem supporting this resolution. but of course we all know that russia is too important an energy supplier and that the european heads of state and government will put this piece of paper aside. we know that whenever economic interests are at stake, whether in china, russia or saudi arabia, the love of human rights of all those inventors of charters of fundamental rights must give way to realpolitik. so let us not be under any illusions. secondly, ladies and gentlemen, in this resolution, replace the country of russia with belgium, and the text will remain as relevant. in belgium too, peaceful protesters were beaten up by angry police forces on the orders of the mayor of brussels. in belgium too, the opposition is largely denied access to the media. in belgium too, at the request of the government and also at the request of the party of the commissioner here, a political opposition party was banned by politically appointed judges, after which these judges were promoted as a reward. europe should first sweep its own door, you hypocritical democrats.
president. - the fight against global warming is not a european fight, but must become a fight for the whole planet. if we do not, all grand plans are meaningless and it is again the europeans who have to make the most difficult efforts for results that will be but a drop on a hot plate. the european drive for action is unstoppable today too. once again, we are faced with lofty and unattainable goals. the european summit in march this year set a target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 and of renewable energy providing 20% of the union's needs. but one of the big questions, of course, remains: who's gonna pay for that? the climate plan would require companies and consumers to spend as little as 60 billion euros a year, which would be equivalent to 2 billion euros a year in my country, belgium, and at least 200 euros per citizen globally. not only is there a risk of a huge tax increase, but this is also a factor that threatens to encourage companies to move abroad, where environmental regulations are less strict. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to congratulate dr adamou on his excellent report on the subject of organ donation and transplantation. i am particularly pleased that the report supports the commission's view that the three main lines of action for organ donation and transplantation should be: firstly, improving the quality and safety of organs, secondly increasing the availability of organs and thirdly making transplants safe. ensuring high quality and safety standards in human organs is a benefit to everyone. we know that a number of organs are exchanged between eu member states. at present, there is a lack of common quality and safety standards in the procurement of human organs and, therefore, meeting this need is very important. it not only provides a comparable safety standard to apply across the eu, but also leads to a feeling of security and solidarity in the transplantation system. the commission plans to propose a legislative framework on the basic safety and quality principles in relation to the donation and procurement of human organs. these requirements will be broad and flexible, to maximize the number of transplantations taking place. after all, this is all about saving lives. we must keep uppermost in our minds the fact that there are 50 000 people on organ waiting lists across europe at this point. increasing organ availability requires raising public awareness of the issue. citizens need to know that transplantation systems are safe and reliable. otherwise they will not consent to donation. we already have some good examples in member states where the addition of transplant coordinators, for example, has had a positive impact on donation rates. the commission intends to propose an action plan with 10 priority actions to meet the challenges of organ donation and transplantation in the eu. the commission recognises the importance of fighting organ trafficking as reflected in the communication on organ donation and transplantation. i also noted dr adamou's comments and will seriously consider them. his report makes it clear that we should look very carefully at how we intend to respond to the menace of organ trafficking in the eu. the commission will monitor the situation in collaboration with our international partners, the council of europe and the world health organisation. we shall also support interpol in order to continue with the monitoring of this problem. moreover, i believe that by increasing organ availability in the european union, we shall indirectly fight transplant tourism and trafficking of organs. in addition, organ trafficking will be included in this year's commission report on an eu action plan on trafficking in human beings.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe-de group. mr president, commissioner, organ transplants are indeed saving lives every day in europe. unfortunately, the lack of donors means that thousands of europeans die on the waiting list every year. the challenge remains to increase the number of donors in a safe way. as the shadow rapporteur for the ppe-de group, i am very pleased today that parliament also fully supports the commission's initiative and recognises that europe can play a vital role in this. organ donation and transplantation is, as the honourable members have already said, a very complex and sensitive subject, on which there are many different views in the member states. in preparing the report, i have also personally seen many doctors, spoken to patients and to organizations. the hearing we organized and the study visit to spain also gave us some interesting insights, and i would like to thank the rapporteur today for including our input in his report. firstly, we want to ensure that the directive on quality and safety, as proposed by the commission, provides sufficient flexibility and does not lead to additional administrative burdens or even result in a reduction in the number of bodies available. for us, it is still the doctor who ultimately decides on quality and safety. in order to guarantee that quality and safety, we also ask that member states monitor and evaluate post-transplant and post-donation results. since the comparability of data between member states is of great importance, a common methodology for data analysis may be sought. secondly, the organization of the donation system is also the most essential factor for us in increasing the number of donors, even more than the legislation on the subject. we therefore ask that hospitals should employ sufficient staff to identify potential donors and to provide support to the families of those who have died. we see that countries that already have such transplant coordinators are seeing an increase in the number of donors. this also shows that the exchange of good practice between member states is crucial. the european union can only facilitate this. it is also important that hospitals raise awareness of the positive outcomes of transplants among citizens and that they also proactively engage with the media. fourthly, we think it is very important that living donation can be considered as complementary to post-mortem donation. we also ask that living donors not be discriminated against, for example by insurance companies. finally, organ donation must also remain strictly non-commercial, altruistic and voluntary. we believe that any compensation should only cover the costs and inconveniences associated with the donation. the commission, together with the member states, needs to be much more proactive in combating organ trafficking, organ trafficking and transplant tourism. traceability is very important here and europol must also do a better job of monitoring and detecting cases of organ sales and/or trafficking. i am convinced that parliament is sending a very balanced and well-founded message with this report, and i would therefore ask members to support it tomorrow.
the european parliament has made a number of recommendations, and i shall choose three of them. i would also ask mr maystadt to comment on this in his reply. we welcome the fact that the european investment bank has a zero-tolerance policy on fraud and corruption. the european parliament would like to strengthen this. we recommend measures, for example, to introduce an administrative exclusion mechanism against companies suspected or found guilty of corruption. we are in favour of strengthening the policy on whistleblowers. we are in favour of a review of the existing tendering procedures. what does mr maystadt think about that? a second element. many billions of euros are going to trans-european networks. as a european parliament we would like to see support given to projects which reduce or have a negative carbon footprint. finally, as regards external lending operations, we want to ensure that such operations, especially on the african continent, are in line with the european consensus on development and also with the millennium development goals. what is mr maystadt's view, as president of the european investment bank, of these recommendations of our parliament?
we welcome, mr president, that this report emphasizes the eib's zero-tolerance policy on fraud and corruption and also highlights the increasing number of investigations by olaf. but the eib's lending practice shows that it too is not free from all sins. for example, a recent eur 100 million loan to a large-scale mining project in congo was heavily criticised for all sorts of major irregularities, such as a lack of transparency in the negotiation process and in the final award of the contract. there was a serious conflict of interest. since 2000, the european investment bank has invested over eur 700 million in all types of mining projects in africa. i would like to emphasize that these many millions come from the european taxpayer and that the lending and contracting policy of our institution must therefore be subject to the greatest possible scrutiny, including and especially when it comes to the financing of projects outside europe.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's discharge, but i will say that the commission has not yet given its opinion on the matter. the commission's discharge is faced with problems which have been explained sufficiently, in particular by the rapporteurs: the fact that the court of auditors has pointed out a number of problems with the structural funds, that 12% should not have been paid (four billion euros, that is a huge sum), and in the field of external relations, the fact that cooperation with the united nations, among other things, is very weak and inconvenient. these are the problems we've been dealing with. it was an important discharge because it's the last discharge before the election. we'll have another discharge next year, but it'll be in a pre-election phase. so it was a major discharge and we had to force the dialogue. i am very pleased that we have done so in a very constructive way, across the groups. the fact that we have held a hearing with špidla and hübner on two occasions so far, and the fact that we, dan jørgensen, jan mulder, mrs gräßle and myself, have been able to obtain information from the commission by means of a joint letter, has led to a good result. i hope that we can achieve a better result next year. as far as parliament is concerned, i should like to concentrate on two major problems. as regards the status of assistants, we have the internal audit of the internal auditor. i have to commend him for that, it is a very good document. i still do not understand, mr president, why you and the bureau have not published this audit. it is now in an atmosphere of secrecy, and there is no need for that, because we as a parliament have always asked for this audit to be carried out, to investigate how secretarial fees are handled. i think we should now be the ones to establish that statute. i have tabled a number of amendments to strengthen the existing text by mr pomés ruiz. this must be done in dialogue with the commission, but above all in dialogue with the council. because if we come up with a paper that the council does not follow, then we are not where we should be. so do that in dialogue with the commission, with the council. and finally, one last word. i'm worried about the voluntary pension fund. firstly, the actuarial deficit continues to increase and secondly, i would like the list of participants in that voluntary pension fund to be published at last.
in writing. on 23 april we approved a report on organ donation and transplantation, and actions to be promoted to increase the number of available organs. a report on a subject of vital importance: 10 people die every day in europe because of the lack of available organs; more than 15 000 european patients are on waiting lists; the average waiting time for a kidney, the most commonly transplanted organ, is over 24 months in belgium. these are hard numbers to believe! i have supported the initiative to create a european donor card. it is very useful, in the emergency context of organ harvesting, when a potential donor is identified, to have a uniform european card, immediately readable and understandable by all. the initiative is supported by the vast majority of belgian citizens, who generally have a favourable attitude towards organ donation. this, combined with the "presumed consent" system and good coordination of transplant centers, explains why our country is at the forefront of successful transplants. the only regret is that we could not have been more ambitious in recommending that the system of presumed consent be extended to the european level.
mr president, today the french newspaper le monde has the headline: "you can't buy much more for a dollar". rising food prices, inflation, and rising oil prices are eating into household budgets. the social consequences of the recession are becoming more and more evident. the analysis of le monde is undoubtedly also valid for the other member states. some speakers have already pointed out that too often in this debate it is forgotten that the problem of purchasing power has also become a problem of europe. all right, we all applaud solidarity with the third world, including myself. but as an old french proverb says: charity is orderly, beginning with itself. if we forget that, the europeans will again be in danger of turning their backs on a policy which they do not understand if it is not also geared to them. we all heard it: the commission is monitoring the situation closely. the commission has allocated hundreds of millions of dollars in emergency aid to the most affected people. we can only applaud all these expressions of goodwill, if they were not yet another example of the typical european disease curen am symptom. i would like to point out only two paradoxes. the commission says it will do everything possible to halt the fall in purchasing power. but how do you explain to the europeans that you want to maintain purchasing power if they are the only ones who will have to cough up 200 euros a year and per family tomorrow for an ambitious climate plan? how do you want to develop biofuels for our energy needs, and at the same time counter food shortages? these are just two elements of a great debate which has received far too little attention.
mr president, in the face of the current food crisis, the european commission has just announced that it will significantly increase its emergency food aid. this is very good, but it is also, and above all, by focusing on these structural causes that the commission will show that it has grasped the full extent of the crisis and that it recognizes that its responsibility and that of the union are clearly involved in what is happening today. for us european socialists, the present crisis is not a matter of fate, but is the result of very clear political choices made by the nordic countries in general in a whole series of areas. the commission has been very active in this area, and i am sure that it will continue to do so. i am sure that the commission will continue to support the efforts of the european parliament to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat hunger. it should also be noted that some in the european union are reducing the amount of their official development aid, despite the constant promises and proclamations to the contrary. it is also worth noting that the commission is still trying to impose on the world's poorest acp countries so-called economic partnership agreements which they do not want, since it seems obvious to them that they contain the seeds of future crises. the list of decisions taken by the union and the european commission which are in flagrant contradiction with the stated objectives of development cooperation is still long. what about the system, our system, in which rice or wheat become safe values? is it really normal for european banks to offer their customers investment products speculating on rising prices of raw materials and agricultural products? and do we accept without question that in order to drive cleanly and with our eyes fixed on our green spaces, we are starving millions of people? we do not accept that. that is why we are calling for greater coherence between the various policies of the european union and we are making a strong plea to the commission and to mr barroso to put an end to this mad race for biofuels by working towards a moratorium, as jean ziegler proposed at the united nations, on both their use and production, as long as they compete with food. i would like to conclude by saying to my colleague thierry cornillet that the quotation about the fish is from mao tse-tung and not from rené dumont.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, the answer to this question is a simple no. the systems we have at the moment are not waterproof, we know that. that is why we are working to improve. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has requested and received a negotiating mandate from the council authorising it to negotiate specifically with liechtenstein on how to eliminate existing weaknesses in the system for combating money laundering and tax fraud. i hope that the strong public opinion we have recently seen in europe on this issue will help us to reach the necessary agreements. we're working very hard on this, but as you know, tax issues are extremely sensitive issues. even within the member states, there is room for improvement.
vice-president of the commission. - i would like to say, as regards the first question, that it is certainly not for the european commission to pass judgment on the methods used by a member state to combat tax evasion by its citizens. i have pointed out that the general rules on the protection of personal data also apply in tax matters, but that member states have the right to restrict these rules if it is necessary to protect their financial interests. i think the question you have asked is a question that should be put to the government of the federal republic of germany. i believe that it examined very carefully the question of the legality of the procedure in the case you have described before it took its decision and came to the conclusion that the german tax authorities were entitled to acquire the data in question. as regards the second question, which was of a very general nature, i agree with you that it is a pity that in the existing eu treaty we are not able to guarantee that tax avoidance and tax evasion are prosecuted in the same way throughout europe, and even that no one is encouraging tax evasion or tax avoidance. we have achieved a great deal in recent years, particularly in the context of the necessary fight against money laundering and all forms of international crime and terrorism. but i've already pointed out: the commission believes that there is room for improvement and what we want to achieve with liechtenstein as with other countries is clear. we want to have the same cooperation and exchange of information with regard to liechtenstein as exists between the member states of the european union.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the european commission has been working hard for years to reduce particulate matter and ultra-fine particulate matter. the commission has proposed a whole series of legislative measures since 2005 to improve air quality, which you are aware of. but important aspects of a more environmentally friendly transport policy are also being examined in the seventh framework programme. in developing standards for particulate emissions from motor vehicles, the commission initially focused on diesel cars and commercial vehicles, as the stock of these vehicles is significantly larger than the stock of motorised two-wheelers. so we've been focusing on tackling the problem where it's most prevalent. we have reached important milestones. in 2007, the parliament and the council adopted a regulation on emissions from light passenger and commercial vehicles. these are the euro 5 and euro 6 standards. it has already been adopted and is now in force. this euro 5 and euro 6 standard will reduce the additional particulate emissions from diesel vehicles from the current 25 milligrams per kilometre to 5 milligrams per kilometre. the commission also presented a proposal for a regulation on emissions from heavy-duty vehicles, the euro vi standard, on 21 december 2007. it will reduce the limit values for nitrogen oxide emissions by 80% and particulate emissions by 66% compared with the current euro v standard. the problem of particulate emissions from two-wheel vehicles is essentially a problem of two-stroke engines. the particulate emissions of four-stroke engines are very low compared to these engines, even if they comply with the euro 5 standard. in 2004, the commission commissioned a study to determine whether legislation to limit particulate emissions from two-stroke car engines is appropriate. the study found that the particles emitted by such engines are predominantly hydrocarbons. as the limits for hydrocarbon emissions from motorcycles and mopeds i.e. two-wheelers were already significantly tightened in 2004 and 2007, the situation for new vehicles has already improved considerably. in addition, manufacturers are moving from two-stroke engines to four-stroke engines in order to comply with the hydrocarbon limit values. for this reason, the commission has not yet proposed specific measures to limit particulate emissions from two-wheelers. however, i must say that the situation is much more critical in the case of older vehicles with two-stroke engines, which emit hydrocarbons and particles in larger quantities. however, these emissions can be significantly reduced by using synthetic oil instead of mineral oil for engine lubrication. the commission is therefore supporting a campaign by the european motorcycle manufacturers' association and the motorcyclists' association. the commission is nevertheless examining the need for a revision of the legislation on two- and three-wheel motor vehicles. a study was commissioned earlier this year to review the findings of the 2004 study in the light of the latest technical developments. the results of this study will be available by the end of this year. if it turns out that a legislative proposal by the commission is necessary - and i am prepared to make one if necessary - then it would be in 2009. the framework directive on the assessment and control of air quality and the relevant separate directives setting emission limit values for so-called pm 10 particles and for benzene require member states to take appropriate measures to ensure that the limit values are complied with nationally by the reference date. member states must also provide for emergency measures in the event of temporary exceedance of the limit values. in areas where the likelihood of exceeding the limit value by two-stroke engines is significantly increased, the commission considers that member states will take this situation into account in their respective air quality plans and emergency measures.
president, commissioner, thank you for your detailed reply. you have rightly referred to the efforts already made by the commission in relation to emissions from lorries and cars, but no legislative proposal has yet been drawn up in relation to motorcycles. you refer to the efforts of industry to replace two-stroke engines with four-stroke engines, which would bring about a positive evolution. firstly, i wonder to what extent this is just a non-binding commitment. is this a real commitment? secondly, we must be aware that pollution is very local and has a very strong effect, for example, on cyclists in the immediate vicinity of the scooters, which is a public health problem.
i would like to thank the commissioner, mr president, and also the commission for the efforts it is making to protect the rights of the child as much as possible. but i want to briefly update my question. unicef has just published a report which shows that in the past week in eastern congo, between 2 and 3 000 children have been abducted by militias and are being abused in a shameful way in a military conflict. what more does the commission think it can do to avoid such situations on the ground? i appreciate all the effort and i appreciate what's in the action plan. but when you talk to the people on the ground, it turns out that there are still not enough people and resources dedicated to protecting children's rights in armed conflict.
commissioner, first of all, i know that i am the first to ask you an oral question today. i hope you have as much fun being in this house as i do. i just wanted to make a little parenthesis. i see that you are giving a lot of information, but according to the latest figures recently collected in the benelux and germany, the number of herds infected with the fever has increased by 25 times in one year, which is considerable. i will give you a case in belgium, since that is the country where i work, of course. nearly 7,000 herds are estimated to be affected. the economic damage to the farmers is therefore very significant.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his recommendation for better administrative cooperation and better possibilities for labour inspectorates. but, commissioner, you are aware that our joy in this matter is being seriously undermined by the raval and rupert decisions. they have caused a great deal of commotion, not only in the pse group in parliament but also in the trade unions outside parliament and in the countries which are currently ratifying the treaty of lisbon. we have long thought that the secondment directive was a good directive with a clear starting point. since we cannot ensure that wages and working conditions are the same everywhere in europe, it is only fair that workers can count on equal treatment wherever they work, regardless of their nationality. it is true that the posting of workers directive does not apply the full employment country principle, but only imposes a number of binding conditions. but the directive also gives member states the freedom to impose more generous provisions on the protection of workers, in accordance with their own social traditions, in accordance with collective agreements or generally binding collective agreements. the judgments now saw the legs off our equal treatment chair. the minimum protection provided for in the directive is gradually becoming a maximum. the problem of poor transposition in some member states is long gone. but we are becoming increasingly aware that the basic philosophy of the directive is wrong, and that is: the commission has already taken a number of measures to protect workers, but in a limited way. social rights to negotiate, to strike, exist only as long as they do not jeopardize the free movement of services. this is not a matter of xenophobic rhetoric, on the contrary. foreign workers are more than welcome. the free movement of workers guarantees equal treatment from day one, and that is what we want under the free movement of services. my group therefore calls for a revision of the secondment directive for three reasons. firstly, to ensure that equal treatment is guaranteed for national and foreign workers. secondly, to ensure that national systems of social consultation are fully respected, and thirdly, to ensure that fundamental social rights are safeguarded for all. we are counting on your support, commissioner.
mr president, commissioner, i agree with the views of my colleagues van lancker and wurtz on the main points. the question is, in the end, how many more working poor do we want in the european union? that is the fundamental question. without going back to the court's judgments, i note, however, that the 'posting of workers' directive is being used against national or regional provisions which aim to ensure a level playing field for all workers, to ensure a minimum wage for all workers. so we are in a situation where this directive calls into question the territoriality of labour law. we can ensure the mobility of workers, while ensuring the territoriality of labour law, and that is what is being discussed. to leave the scope of this directive on the posting of workers for a moment, i would draw your attention to another totally related matter, the complaint which tnt has lodged with the commission following a judgment of an administrative court in berlin, which considers that the german government, by imposing a minimum wage level in the postal sector, has not taken into account the economic impact of the minimum wage - we are talking about a minimum wage of eur 9.80 per hour - on competitors. and we find ourselves in a situation where the minimum wage, which is a matter for national competence, is actually intended to discourage competition and the interpretation given by tnt. the commission is currently examining the complaint. if you, or your colleagues and the college, were to prove tnt right in this case, i think, mr špidla, that all your credibility would be lost in this case as in the others and that a commission recommendation on better information and better administrative cooperation between the states is not enough to really ensure the dignity of workers in the european union.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, dear colleague marie-arlette carlotti, i would first like to congratulate you on the excellent work that has gone into the preparation of this report, which has been done with great skill. beyond the reminder that it is urgent to encourage our partners to ratify the 10th edf, i would like to return to some of the issues which, for us european socialists, are essential in view of the current challenges facing the people of the south, challenges tragically highlighted by the current food crisis. firstly, better account should be taken of agriculture, which accounts for only an insufficient proportion of the european development fund. i would remind you that 9 out of 78 countries in the 9th edf and only 8% of the amounts allocated in the 10th to cover initiatives in agriculture and rural development. and then there is the late implementation of the increase in resources announced by the commission as part of its support for the development of agriculture in the southern countries. secondly, the imperative need to ensure that our policy and that of the member states are consistent with the priorities expressed in the 10th edf, particularly in the common agricultural policy, because no development policy will make sense as long as we continue to give to the one side what we take from the other. another important issue for us is the gender issue, of course, especially since we know how women are at the center of development in most of these countries. finally, the requirement as it was mentioned this morning in the debate on discharge, the requirement for the budgetization of the edf, which has so far escaped any parliamentary control, even though it is a budget of 22.6 billion euros - as you said, mr commissioner - the bulk of our development resources. but this is an appeal to the council rather than to the commission, with whom we agree on this point. i can only repeat and confirm what my colleague, marie-arlette carlotti, has said about our vigilance so that the 10th edf does not become the lever or the cure for economic partnership agreements. of course, it would be nothing serious.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a few thoughts in the style of a telegram. first of all, i would like to commend the efforts of the commission presidency and those of the member states which have made it possible to secure the approval of a genuine negotiating mandate on 18 april. in a matter which has been dealt with in a scattered fashion and, i would say, handled calamitously in recent times, this is good news for all european citizens. i would like to mention two problems which have already been raised by the commissioner. it is not normal, mr president, commissioner, that the implementation protocols, the so-called 'implementing arrangements' negotiated between certain member states and the usa, are currently completely opaque. if that is not surprising to the united states, it is unacceptable to the member states. i am speaking in particular to the czech republic, which will shortly be taking over the presidency of the union and which should set an example. while the negotiating mandate contains very clear provisions on data protection, i remain convinced that, in this sensitive area, only a genuine transatlantic agreement, and not just the definition of twelve principles, a genuine transatlantic agreement, ideally, in my view, headed by a common data protection authority, is likely to meet the requirements of both parties, and in particular, ours.
mr president, this whole debate on visa exemptions between the united states and the european union is beginning to take on a hallucinatory character. a number of new member states have managed to conclude bilateral agreements with the united states. it was quicker and apparently easier for them than waiting for a global agreement with the entire european union. the united states has attached certain conditions to the visa exemption in the context of the fight against terrorism. what's the problem? the conclusion of visa agreements is a european competence, say the eurofederalists. in a previous debate on this issue, a colleague from the ppe-de stated that the so-called european solidarity must take precedence and that we should then explain this to the people of the member states concerned who are victims of this. it seems that ideology must take precedence over reality. it is the competence of the member states and it must remain the competence of the member states to determine for themselves who enters their territory and under what conditions. and visa policy is an essential part of that.
in writing. - the gomes report rightly points to various unacceptable chinese practices in africa, and sometimes hits nails with heads. the ethnic cleansing of tibet may be of great interest, but china's policies in africa are at least as much a sign of a regime that does not give a damn about human rights and other rules of the game. the chinese do business with anyone, as long as the oil thirst is met. chinese companies and businessmen form extraterritorial chinese islands that are shielded by corrupt potentates, who in turn are protected by chinese vetoes in the security council. europe is no match for the chinese, and slowly but surely we are being driven out of africa. europe must finally realize that as the chinese take over in africa, our constantly repeated message of democracy, freedom, good governance and, not to forget, sustainability, becomes totally, totally meaningful. it's time for a new strategy.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european border guard is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action. it is also positive that frontex has been given the green light to start negotiations on cooperation agreements with a number of countries of origin or transit in order to act jointly against illegal immigration. but on the other hand, this agency stands or falls naturally with the technical and political support of the member states, which in the past has proved all too often problematic. for example, france, germany and the netherlands were much more active than belgium, which took part in only three operations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because most illegal immigrants enter europe legally, but when their visas expire, they simply disappear into illegality. we are talking about hundreds of thousands of people. in this context, the 53 000 arrests proposed by the commission a few months ago are therefore little more than couriers am symptom. the crux of the matter is that both the european member states and the european union are responsible for uncontrolled and illegal immigration with all its catastrophic social consequences. i am thinking here not only of the flexible visa policy and the lax search and return policy, but also of the irresponsible waves of regularization that have been implemented in some member states and which have created a huge suction effect. the enlargement of schengen to the east is the last of these harmful decisions, for the time being. the question is therefore whether frontex should not simply play the role of lightning rods to be used to provide the citizens of europe with.
the chairman of the council. - mr. paleckis' question: i think the answer is very simple. we must never give up diplomacy as a means of negotiation, persuasion and achievement of results. so the answer is simple. the council, as i said, has a very developed dialogue between the european union and china. this dialogue is ongoing, and next month will be a new chapter in this dialogue, and we want to continue the dialogue with china. human rights are an important part of this dialogue and will remain so. i cannot comment on mr mitchell's questions because the council has not discussed this phenomenon and has no position. but i can't comment on, i'm sure you'll agree, mr. mitchell, the information and data that appears in the media or otherwise.
the chairman of the council. - in a way, mr rübik's and mr kamall's questions are connected. the question of what to do if we do not get a satisfactory answer is certainly one of the possibilities for our question to be asked again. new platforms for dialogue with china yes, of course, if the need arises and if the council agrees to such an extension of dialogue and if the chinese side agrees to it, of course. but i think it's important, and i see a common answer to both of those who asked, that the dialogue continues, that's essential. the council is determined to continue the dialogue and is determined to address human rights issues in the context of this dialogue.
the chairman of the council. − the council, like the european parliament, is deeply concerned by the recent events and human rights violations in tibet. on 19 march, just a few days after the events, the presidency issued a statement on behalf of the european union calling for restraint. it called on the chinese government to respond to the concerns of tibetans about respect for human rights. it called on the chinese authorities and the dalai lama to establish a concrete and constructive dialogue. one that would lead to a lasting solution that would be acceptable to all and would fully respect tibetan culture, religion and identity. the slovenian presidency also made a similar statement on behalf of the european union at the human rights council in geneva on 25 march. we are aware of calls for a united nations-led investigation into china's response to events in tibet. the council called on the chinese government to lift restrictions on access to the region, which would allow an independent assessment of the situation. the eu-china human rights dialogue, which has been mentioned several times today and will take place on 15 may in ljubljana, slovenia, will be a further opportunity to discuss the situation in tibet and other pressing issues, such as the situation of human rights defenders. the eu troika will insist that the chinese authorities allow foreign journalists to enter tibet in accordance with new regulations adopted in the run-up to the olympic games. the european union will also discuss internet censorship with china in ljubljana, continuing discussions that began in the last round of dialogue last october. it is important to assess the human rights dialogue in the context of the wider eu-china dialogue on human rights, reforms and political and social progress. the human rights dialogues with china regularly address issues that have been the cause of the unrest we have seen in tibet. these are freedom of religion and belief, minority rights, cultural rights. in the last round of dialogue last october, the eu troika discussed very openly with the chinese authorities the restriction of religious freedom. examples of positive changes in china's human rights record include the new labor law that came into force this year and the reinstatement of the supreme people's court's power to review death sentences. as a result, the number of executions has decreased. finally, i would like to stress that the european union is following the situation in burma as closely as it is following the situation in tibet. in the latter respect, the european union is very active in supporting the efforts of the united nations to accelerate the transition to democracy, reconciliation and development and is involved in consultations with its asian partners.
i would like to thank the minister for his reply, which was quite detailed but unfortunately did not go into the substance of the matter. we all agree in this house that we should be concerned about the human rights situation in burma and in china. i doubt if there is any positive change taking place. i would point out that only a few weeks ago the french newspaper libération published on its front page pictures of the machines used to torture tibetan prisoners in china. so i would still dare to doubt that there is a positive change. but let me put my question a little more specifically. why does the european union have two standards when, for example, it is right to apply very strict economic sanctions against burma, but not against china? could it be that when there are big economic interests at stake, we are a little less principled when it comes to human rights?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in 2001, the wto's own sutherland report launched a very lively debate on its institutional reform, a debate which has unfortunately been extinguished far too quickly. some people think that the debate on reform is not appropriate today. they want to wait for the outcome of the doha development agenda before they can debate the institution as such. but we don't think it's mutually exclusive. from the development perspective, we advocate a new differentiation of the developing countries in the wto, based on the development needs of individual countries rather than categories of countries. mrs muscardini herself has already explained why this is necessary. not only is there a need for more transparency within the wto, but also for better cooperation with other international organisations such as the international labour organisation and unctad. the proposal in the sutherland report to regard financing arrangements for technical assistance to the least developed countries as a contractual right, so that they can participate fully in the multilateral trading system, is essential for our committee. finally, the dispute settlement system, which for the reasons we all know often leaves developing countries on the short end of the stick, must also be revised in the sense advocated by sutherland. in conclusion, a reform of the wto is crucial, not only to strengthen its legitimacy with all its members, including the poorest, but also, i think, to safeguard multilateralism.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, i would also like to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs ferreira, on the quality of her work and the close collaboration she has sought to establish between herself and the fictitious rapporteurs on this important issue. i shall concentrate here on the two main parts of this resolution: the carbon trading system on the one hand and green taxation on the other. first, the emission allowance. the sad fact is that we are constantly hearing it: more than 1% of industrial co2 emissions in 2007, last year, when the european union set itself the ambitious targets we know at the spring summit: a 20% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2020. in short, the machine is stuck and - i use a gentle euphemism - it must be restarted, to enter - it is time - into a time and into virtuous circles. i see two ways of doing this: the first is to support the european commission, which is in favour of paying for the emission quotas; the second is to take another view. the current system, which is aimed at co2 only, is too narrow. the aim is to gradually introduce other air pollutants, starting with nox and so2. i also wonder about the preferential treatment which continues to be enjoyed by the shipping sector, which, unlike aviation, is not subject to any community or international legislation on co2 reduction, a double standard which we can no longer afford. another cornerstone of this resolution is the green taxation, environmental taxation, the revolution, i do not know, that my colleague mr eguy was talking about. the liberal and democratic group's position on this issue is clear. the community market-based instruments must not be limited to the emissions trading system, we must consider other schemes and as the author i am very much in favour of paragraph 27 which revives the idea of a carbon tax in return for a reduction in fossil fuel subsidies. however, and i agree with mr purvis and mr wittman, the alde group will not support the last sentence of paragraph 26, which calls on the commission to present a proposal for a community co2 tax before the end of 2008. we prefer that the union finish its ambitious energy and climate package. in conclusion, i would say that we must stop with the hypocrisy; we must be very aware of the price of our ambition. to divide co2 emissions by three, for example, each european would have to emit eight times less carbon dioxide. these figures are brutal to show that beyond the use of these market instruments in environmental protection, our individual responsibility cannot be avoided here and that the union will need a lot of energy to keep the course so that sustainable development is not just a fad but our model for all of us for tomorrow.
madam president, please note that my card is not working, because i have just returned a card which i thought i had lost to the office and it has been declared invalid. so, here i am, i'd like to vote, i have my card, but it's not working anymore. there you go. so i don't know what i'm supposed to do, but i'd like to put that in the minutes.
mr president, how many times has the human rights situation in zimbabwe been brought up as an urgent matter in this parliament? how many times have we stood here helplessly shouting our outrage at the way mugabe is oppressing his people? we don't always agree with each other, but there is a kind of consensus on zimbabwe. the scandalous spectacle of the recent elections is further proof that this unscrupulous dictator has no taste for democracy. the policy of ethnic cleansing against white farmers continues. mugabe despises the opposition, he despises the international community, he despises his own people. the weakest people in zimbabwe are the first victims, but we've known that for years. but the european community still unveiled the red carpet for this man in december last, on the occasion of the euro-african summit in lisbon. only british prime minister gordon brown was consistent enough to stay away from this unhealthy underbelly. we all know it, but this is the very essence of the situation we have to prosecute. mugabe has supported himself. he has the support of a number of fellow heads of state, or let us say fellow dictators in africa, who still dismiss any criticism of his criminal policies as so-called neo-colonialism. south africa in particular plays a very perfidious role in this. as long as the african union does not issue an unequivocal condemnation, mugabe will continue to act with impunity. mugabe also knows, backed by china, that he wants to take over europe's role in africa and he does this by telling corrupt heads of state that they will not be bothered with china whining about human rights and good governance. not only in tibet, but also in darfur and zimbabwe, the chinese regime is showing its true colors. that is the essence of the debate today and it is this chinese and african complicity that we must condemn more strongly and put on the agenda.
the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster. secondly, the development of the single market between our member states has taken more than 30 years and, as we all know, that single market is still not perfect. in other words, the development of a single market between the united states and europe can only be a long-term project. finally, he stressed the importance of the role of politics, political means and political institutions in this process. my group has contributed to the resolution before us and therefore supports the motion for a resolution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we know how difficult this is, and therefore, when it is not possible, or when it would take too long, the resolution calls for acceptance of each other's standards in the various economic aspects, under the motto that what is good enough for us must also be good enough for our partners and, of course, vice versa. now, as we all know, that is also easier said than done and there are still a number of problems which we have to solve together, whether it is poultry, hormones or cattle, or the very sensitive issue, which was raised by the vice-president, of the american requirement that every container be examined. i think that with the right attitude we should be able to solve all these problems one by one, and if both our parliament and the american congress contribute to this, we may well achieve a good result.
the rapporteur. - mr president, fifteen years after the first election observation mission to russia, and eight years after the commission's first communication on this subject, what is the outcome of the election observation? well, first, a positive report. the aim of this report, which was written jointly and in full agreement with ignacio salafranca, was to highlight the successes achieved: the increasing professionalisation of election observation missions, the creation in the union of a corps of experienced observers - successes such as the fact that the budget now amounts to about 25% of the instrument for democracy and human rights - and, above all, the successful combination of two missions, also led by parliamentarians, the union's, which is more technical and long-term, and parliament's, which is short-term and more political. but we must continue to dig the path. the main recommendations of this report are, firstly, to open the missions to acp, eurolat and apm member countries, but with great caution. care must be taken not to break the professionalisation and to maintain the european seal. secondly, to keep the budget allocated to the democracy and human rights initiative at around 25%, to draw up an annual report assessing the year's observations - this is extremely important -, to look at the security of computerised elections - a new challenge for election observers - and, above all, to work much more on follow-up. because it is in the monitoring that the work hurts and that elections really struggle to be the real lever towards democracy that they should be. the report outlines several ways forward in the follow-up, but i shall simply focus - i am addressing the council here mainly - on the political follow-up. it is unacceptable that when elected representatives or presidents are elected on fraudulent grounds, the european union's policy towards them should continue as if nothing had happened. business as usual. it is unthinkable - and it is disastrous - that when elected representatives are elected on a democratic basis, they are not entitled to the respect and legitimacy that this election confers on them. we've had unfortunate examples in the past that have led to dramatic situations. i don't want to make a school case out of it. it is a consensus report, not a polemic one, and europe has a good instrument. you can't deny yourself the pleasure.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should not be involved in the negotiations. we should only have the courage to make a number of points clearer and to denounce without any hesitation, first and foremost, the fanatical totalitarianism of the muslim states. the fact is that in europe islam is recognized and treated as an equal religion, and muslims are naturally treated as equal citizens, and islam in my country is recognized and subsidized by the government, but christians and non-believers in the muslim world are openly treated as second-class citizens and openly discriminated against as second-class citizens. for example, in so-called modern algeria, a penalty of five years in prison and hefty fines are imposed on anyone who attempts to convert a muslim. in other muslim countries too, discrimination and oppression of non-muslim minorities is just official policy; it is therefore time for concerted european action. i note that the organisation of the islamic conference constantly talks about the so-called discrimination against muslims here and there, but that the european union, on the other hand, is silent in all its languages about the very unreal, systematic, officially organised persecution of people of other faiths in muslim countries. it is a little bit of an impression that the official human rights dialogues and clauses have become just a kind of moral wrapping paper. but how credible can the european union be if it opens its doors wide to a country like turkey, where, as we know, there is widespread torture by the police? what lessons can the european union teach us about freedom of expression and freedom of the press, when it has itself been conducting secret and open accession negotiations for years with a country like turkey, which reporters without borders describes as one of the worst violators of freedom of expression? and what lessons does the union have to teach about religious freedom if it embraces a country like turkey, which has murdered or expelled all its former religious minorities, and which openly discriminates against the few remaining ones. but if we look beyond the official rhetoric and the official declarations and clauses, we often see a european human rights policy of two measures and two weights and a huge gap between word and deed. one of the perfect symbols of this ambiguous european policy is the current european commissioner for development cooperation, louis michel. when he was still belgian foreign minister, he presented himself with his european cordon sanitaire against austria, as a sort of conscience of the world, but at the same time he baked sweet sandwiches with the criminal dictator fidel castro. the european commissioner himself, a few months ago, again called for a massive improvement in relations with cuba, whereas, according to all the human rights organizations, the cuban state apparatus is constantly bent on curtailing the rights and freedoms of the cuban people. such men, such european commissioners, are ill-placed to pursue a human rights policy. and one more thing: what is absolutely lacking in this report is an urgently needed plea for the restoration of the right to free expression in a number of our own european countries, including belgium. in belgium, the opposition party is besieged with complaints and trials and numerous laws have been tightened to make it impossible for people to express their opinions freely on the immigration problem. it is time we too dared to see the beam in our own eye.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues who spoke and to say how well the warm words of mrs isler béguin, for example, reflect the enthusiasm of those who have taken part in electoral missions, even if this report may appear today to be very consensual and, finally, as has been said in some reports i have read, not media-oriented, weak in media interest, weak in internal conflict, weak in external conflict, weak in everything, but certainly representing a lot of things for countries which are young democracies that have to vote. i would like to answer two colleagues in particular. i would like to begin by answering mr onyszkiewicz, who is asking a very serious question, that of the minority. i would like to say to him that, despite what i understand - and i understand very well that election observation is not yet democracy - i cannot follow him in this philosophy of enlightened despotism or the revolutionary vanguard, where even condorcet speaks of minorities. we can't follow him in that direction. of course, democracy is not perfect. it would be so nice if she was perfect. it is this same democracy that allows mr van hecke today to make a disgraceful speech, to make an islamophobic speech, to make a racist speech. mr van hecke represents in my country, and in the part of flanders, 30% of the voters. unfortunately, we cannot exclude mr van hecke's party and 30% of flanders. we cannot ignore, mr onyszkiewicz - he may not be here any more - the 50% of palestinians who voted for hamas. democracy asks us questions and it is these questions that we must answer. and when we talk about the political follow-up, the questions raised by the election observers and the challenges, these are the ones, and these are the ones we need to address.
what should have been a happy moment here this morning, the adoption of the white paper report, is being seriously overshadowed by the tragic death of one of the top footballers in belgium. the footballer françois sterckele died in a traffic accident this morning. he was one of the great talents of belgian football. i would like to take this opportunity to express my sincere condolences to the family and friends of françois sterckele and to the supporters of club brugge. strong, dear colleagues, as a young footballer and a young talent, he was given every opportunity in various clubs in belgium, and that eventually made him become the top scorer in the belgian league. he's the perfect example of how investing in young talent, in your own talent, really pays off. and that is precisely what we want to support with this report. that is why we also support the home-grown rule as applied by uefa. we also appreciate the european commission's willingness to support the training of young players. i would also recommend that you read the annual report of the german bundesliga, which has just been published. the german league is a role model for europe in my eyes and in the eyes of many others. a few examples: strict licensing rules are applied; the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted to a company in difficulty. and the joint initiative of two representatives of the council, the french and dutch ministers for sport, is a perfect answer to that. we therefore expect the french presidency to take action in the autumn to secure the future of professional and amateur sport in europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's strategy report of december last year contained a very positive message, which was supported by the european council at its spring meeting in march 2008. the results of the 2005 renewed lisbon strategy are already visible at the end of the first three-year cycle. economic growth and employment growth are impressive. a number of things indicate that structural reforms are beginning to bear fruit. all member states have been reforming since 2005, but some are doing better. in the last year, we have seen signs of a certain fatigue with reforms. but europe must not stop and slow down. on the contrary, reforms need to be pursued, if not pursued more vigorously. this is in the context of the commission's proposal to maintain the integrated guidelines including the employment guidelines in their current form until 2010. the commission is firmly convinced that these guidelines provide the right framework for the current challenges of the european labour market and that they are fulfilling their role. this was confirmed by the spring european council, which adopted a general approach based on stability. member states must be given the opportunity to complete the reforms they have started, while at the same time time time allowing time for the results of these reforms to be reflected. the commission also found that amendments should be proposed, with an emphasis on some important tasks to be addressed in the near future. these include climate change, energy, the social dimension and flexicurity. the commission also wanted to stress the need for greater involvement and stronger implementation. as a result, the agreed objectives and reference levels were incorporated into the text of the guidelines.
- i'm the reporter. - first of all, let me thank the colleagues with whom i have had the opportunity to work on this report for the excellent cooperation. i think that the report has been slightly over-simplified, but the message, commissioner, must be clear: the european parliament does not want business as usual for the employment strategy. it is true that there is still a lot of work to be done in the member states to put the guidelines into practice, but it is also true that the guidelines need to be adapted to address a number of essential shortcomings. i will mention three essential ones: the commission's proposals are not without merit. too many groups in society are not benefiting from growth and employment. people with disabilities, migrants and the unskilled are too often left to their own devices, and we need everyone in society and everyone in the labour market. the employment strategy should therefore also focus on active social inclusion to combat poverty and social exclusion, by offering decent wages and high-quality services in combination with active policies for guidance and training towards work. secondly: the quality of the work. clearly more jobs have been created, but not necessarily better jobs. too many people are unwillingly stuck in precarious contracts, temporary jobs, involuntary parttime work and jobs that often guarantee them only an insufficient income. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the training effort must be drastically increased and, moreover, all workers must be granted social rights, regardless of their status. not only is there a need for flexibility in the labour market, but there is also a need for greater security for workers. thirdly: the gender dimension. women have made a strong advance in the labour market, but there is still a long way to go to achieve equal opportunities. the pay gap remains unacceptably wide. women do not have the same access to education or the same opportunities to start a business. those who want to return to work after a career break have a particularly difficult time. overcoming difficulties in reconciling work and family life is still too often a problem of women alone, and the impact on their income is often felt even after retirement. the gender dimension must therefore be given special attention in the employment strategy in order to eliminate all inequalities between men and women. finally, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the employment strategy as a method is a necessary element in the commitment of the member states and the european union to sound social legislation. i therefore hope that all the member states of the european union will consistently transpose and apply european legislation, and i also hope, commissioner, that the commission will present us with an ambitious social agenda soon, within a few months, perhaps within a few weeks. i hope that the june council meeting and the commissioner and the commission will listen to our message. i regret, mr president, that no representative of the council presidency is here, because this message is actually addressed mainly to the june council meeting, which is to take final decisions on the employment strategy. i hope that someone will convey the message of this parliament to them.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, strict parliamentary rules do not allow me to comment in detail on your contributions, but nevertheless let me thank you for a discussion which was in-depth and which touched on the labour market and the european labour market strategy from many angles. i'd like to narrow it down to just a few basic points. first, the european employment strategy has delivered tangible results. the unemployment rate and the employment rate are now incomparably better than they have been since the 1980s, which is a clear success. in your debate you have often expressed concern about the quality of jobs. i would like to point out that the lisbon employment strategy is designed to formulate more and better jobs, more and better jobs, i.e. quality jobs are part of the strategy. what's the score? of those millions of new jobs, more than half are full-time jobs and there can be little question of quality of work. in the second half, many jobs are part-time or temporary. i think it is not a defensible hypothesis that every fixed-term job and every part-time job is a low-quality job. this hypothesis is not justified and a number of these jobs are of high quality. but there is no doubt that some jobs do not have that quality, and that is one of the issues we have to address. i personally find it disturbing and i think we need to give more attention to the problem of the so-called working poor, people who remain poor even though they work. according to the data available, this is approximately 8% of the working population, and that is not a small number, it is millions of people, and it is a question that is raised with great urgency. the next question you have raised is the link between employment policy and social inclusion. i would like to note that line 19 emphasizes an inclusive labour market and emphasizes access to people who are disadvantaged in the labour market. the commission proposed in the strategy not to change these guidelines in principle, given that they had proved their worth and that it had been shown that, in terms of governance, a better application of the balance between the european level and the member states and, after all, the majority of the member states had expressed the view that it was better not to extend these directives. on the other hand, it is clear that this is not a static text, that it will evolve, and the issues you have mentioned are undoubtedly issues that will require a corresponding response in the future. i would like to answer one more question, namely the application of article 139 of the treaty. paradoxically, a collective agreement on the maritime sector will be signed today and it has already been decided to transpose this collective agreement into european law by means of article 139. so it's a very specific step that signals that this article is not being neglected. the agreement in the maritime sector, by the way, is, in my view, a really important step forward, because it is an extremely complex sector, an extremely international one, and the social partners have managed to go a long way in this. the debate has, of course, focused on education, on the high rate of school dropout, on lifelong learning. yes, all these issues are important and will be part of the new social agenda to some extent. as regards inclusion, i would like to draw attention to the commission's document on active inclusion, which is precisely one of the expressions of the commission's strategy in this area. i would like to emphasise that although the labour market is the basis for active inclusion, it does not cover all areas where a coherent inclusion policy is needed. as there are undoubtedly many people who are naturally outside the labour market, such as people who are retired, people who are in various special circumstances, inclusion policy must therefore be broader than just the labour market, but undoubtedly the european labour market strategy must take this aspect into account. ladies and gentlemen, let me thank you again for the discussion which, in my view, touched upon most of the important issues arising in the european labour market and which i believe make a significant contribution to finding a better and more effective balance between the european strategy and the content of the european employment strategy and the action of the individual member states. as i said, there were a number of really interesting points made in the debate, but unfortunately the rules of the house prevent me from dealing with all of them, so i have limited myself to a few of them.
- i'm the reporter. - i would first of all like to thank the honourable members for their contribution to this debate. i think it is clear that many of you have also stressed equal opportunities, social inclusion and the quality of work, and that seems very important to me. i am sorry if i have disappointed some colleagues by not including more of their amendments, but i really wanted to avoid this report becoming a christmas tree with too many hoops and balls. i should like to make a few comments on a comment made by mr andersson. i hope that this report will not be a waste of time, because article 128 of the treaty gives this parliament the right to be consulted, but in practice this right is in danger of being eroded. i am aware, commissioner, that it is important for the council to be able to decide early in the year so that the national action plans can be developed with the social partners. but then it seems to me also essential that, if parliament is to play its part, the european commission should come forward with its proposals earlier in the year so that the three institutions can play their full part in the process, as provided for in the treaty. i would like to thank all my colleagues once again and let us hope that the council will still listen.
the report by mr van lancker reads like a catalogue of good intentions and wishes. better and better paid access to the labour market for women, the disabled and immigrants is always mentioned in the same breath, although these are three very different groups. by 2010, a five-year increase in the average age of exit in the eu, perfect childcare, hardly any school leavers without a job, a job for people who have been unemployed for four years, and so on. that's all very nice, but it's not december 6th. this is a parliament, not a santa claus parade. mr van lancker should know better. we both live in a country where, poor man, 10 million people in the two regions are just begging for a fundamentally different approach to the labour problems in the two regions. we do not need more uniformity at european level, but rather the ability of member states and regions to take concrete measures that are needed locally, quickly and adequately. thank you, sir.
this is a first report on the estimate of the european parliament's revenue and expenditure and it is actually full of complacency in this institution, whereas the first report would have to be the opposite. everyone knows that money is thrown around in this institution. the two meeting places are costing enormous amounts of money, without actually providing any real added value. every year brings enormous increases in the cost of running this institution, this time disguised as a necessary consequence of the lisbon treaty, which, to my knowledge, has not even been adopted. and then, of course, there is the new members' statute, an invention of euro-fanatics to further sever the link between members of parliament and the peoples they represent, and that can all cost money, of course, can it not? it is for all these reasons, and many more, that i voted against this report with conviction.
i voted against the lynne report with great conviction because i think it goes far beyond the numerous, already highly controversial reports that have been adopted by this parliament in the past. now parliament is once again opening the door wide to a kind of comprehensive european anti-discrimination policy which leaves hardly any area of society untouched. i have said it before in this house and i will say it again: the fight against discrimination, if necessary, is a fight which falls within the exclusive competence of the member states and europe should not take on the role of policeman or thought police in this. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. i cannot agree with that and have therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - there is clearly something wrong with trade in raw materials and goods. there's a lot of speculation going on in commodity prices these days. so minerals are pretty expensive. despite their natural wealth, mineral-rich countries remain poor or are getting poorer. developing countries are also very insecure about their own food supply, despite the fact that much food is produced. only it is mass-produced at very high prices. climate change is also forcing us to change the way we deal with this energy-intensive market: the commission has also proposed that the community should be given the opportunity to make a contribution to the development of the mediterranean region. in short, trade in raw materials and goods as it is regulated today has a highly disruptive effect and requires a multilateral approach. the report on trade in raw materials and goods originally contained the right indictment of the ultra-liberal trade policy proposed by the eu at the end of 2006, only to be so watered down along the way that i can no longer support it. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report also calls for the establishment of a european customs union, which would allow the free movement of goods and services.
in writing. - the report by mr lehtinen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (91) 0173 - c3-0314/91) for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs; it contains all the essential points which we have to deal with in the light of the commission's communication, as approved by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. the need for a horizontal approach, attention to contract law, recognition of the role of consumer organisations, the need for balance, the specific nature of smes, the importance of soft legislation and better-founded knowledge, and the need for greater attention to the services sector. we also think that the passage on the possibilities of the story is important. it's a dimension of law enforcement. it is regrettable, however, that the plenary adopted an amendment to paragraph 40 which makes a choice 'in favour' of collective actions before an analysis is available on the basis of the study requested in the report. collective actions are a fundamental intervention in the law of procedure. that is why it is unacceptable to put the cart before the horse. that is why i abstained from voting.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, the council and the commission for the good cooperation. i think we were trying to make a package to ensure a certain coherence between the three reports. at first sight, i would say that parliament plays a pioneering role. we had hoped to reach a conclusion in an unofficial trilogy. but parliament can now make a statement. i am also convinced that the council can take over very usefully much of what has been debated and is being adopted here. the transport manager will, as i have just said, play an important role in the access to the profession. i think it is important that in such an international environment tomorrow we know how the companies are structured, who is responsible, on the one hand, for finances, reliability, but also, on the other, for the important regulations in the transport sector as a whole. if you are going to work internationally tomorrow, it is important to know how the partner is structured and that you can rely on them. we have tried to make this as simple and transparent as possible at the administrative level. we are also counting on the council's cooperation, because the information network we want to create must be transparent, efficient and also fast. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the requirements for the job are also clear. we do not want to impose any special requirements on people who already have professional experience and have proven their reliability. we want to ensure that this can be checked at regular intervals. as far as market access is concerned, it is somewhat easier to do so in bus transport. we also looked for coherence with access to the profession. we in parliament have made it our priority to concentrate on serious offences for the time being. we were not really concerned that in future there would have to be an exchange of small offences between countries. if we have good information on the serious crimes, then we are probably already an important step forward. we do not want to see existing contracts jeopardized. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. the 12-day rule is of course also up for debate here, and as has just been suggested, this 12-day rule was a wish of this parliament in the past, but it was not decided on during the british presidency. parliament has always been clear on this, because we are not just market-oriented. we also took into account safety criteria and wanted to take up this subject again. i hope that this parliament will find the right time and the right formula to adopt this subject. finally, as regards access to road haulage, the famous concept of cabotage is of course of enormous importance. in short, the ultimate aim is to regulate the so-called services directive in the transport sector. how can i provide services in another country if i come from a third country? can i do this indefinitely? can i do this on any conditions? that is the fundamental question. it is not just the large hauliers that are concerned, but also the small, structured companies. on the one hand we take account of the environmental aspect by avoiding empty cars, on the other hand we are allowed - knowing that at the moment the social and also the fiscal conditions differ so much from country to country - not to promote direct dumping in these two areas through this regulation. a limitation of cabotage to three a week is, in my view, at least once a clear statement. this is much better than the term 'temporary', which would have almost led to 27 different laws in 27 different countries in the next few years, which would certainly not have been helpful to the sector. because i think the rules are clear. the fact that this must now be completed within a reasonable time is, in our view, - and i am speaking for myself - a clear thing, provided that the differences in pay and taxation are reduced. we have also looked at cabotage in a more realistic way, i.e. it can be started after the first unloading. i am opposed to the commission's view that cabotage must be possible on international journeys, even on the return journey. we therefore want a certain degree of coherence in market access as regards serious crime and information on it, just as we want to simplify administrative procedures. i would like to conclude by making another appeal to the countries themselves. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. it's not a ton of work. we believe that the aim is to harmonize the administrative paperwork over time and to ensure that the total cost of cabotage at european level, which is 2% for certain countries, is properly controlled, but that this represents 30% to 40% of the work in this area. i think that's the only way that what we're doing here makes sense. and then certain details that we overlook make sense.
i would like to quote from the white paper. i 'm not going to lie . "today, a truck does not have to return empty after a trip abroad. he may also load and transport goods outside his own member state. the free provision of road transport services has become a reality.' 2001, the words of the european commission. since then, a number of member states have reintroduced a number of restrictions, and we are therefore once again faced with a fragmented market which we did not have in 2001. what does the commission say now? we will put that fragmentation into rules so that the fragmentation is the same for everyone. i am therefore very disappointed - and i have also said this to jacques barrot - that the commission's proposal represents a step backwards from the 1993 directive. fortunately, we were able to do something about it, but i do not think we were able to do enough. because what are we doing? we're spending billions of euros to make sure that galileo tells us where the transport is. the transport company can therefore efficiently organise its business throughout the european market and we say: no, stop, the bureaucracy. you're supposed to be filing papers while you're at it. you have to do all kinds of things to work less efficiently and possibly even return your trucks empty. that is what the commission is saying now and i find it very disappointing that the commission even dares to put that on paper. so in this case, i think the social is a kind of excuse that's very easy to use. otherwise, why are the french authorities looking for belgian hauliers to see whether they are not carrying out cabotage or too much cabotage in france? wages in belgium are higher than in france, not lower. this isn't social, this is about protecting the home market. the result will therefore be that we will put a heavy burden on the environment and within a few weeks the commission will come forward with proposals for green transport. - thank you. fortunately, we have been able to do a number of things about this, and the rapporteur has been able to do some things about it. i hope they get through it, too. we have the prospect of an open market in 2014, but for me this does not go far enough. i would have liked to have seen 2012. i do not think we need new studies either. we must really open up that market this time - and, mr piecyk, i agree with your amendment - to ensure that if there is a disruption of the market, action is taken. but that is in an open market and not as an additional obstacle in a market where there are already a hundred. as regards the report by mrs ţicău: i fully agree with the approach of being very strict with people who are entering the profession. i have made it even stricter on a few points here and there. i thank the rapporteur for discussing this with me. if we are strict with the market participants, then we must also ensure that there is a genuine open market.
i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their work. this is a major package of measures which have a very concrete and major impact on a great many people in europe. the most obvious of these is, of course, cabotage. in this connection, it was and is necessary to clarify and clarify certain things so that everyone is on the same page. the way in which the existing cabotage rules were interpreted differed too much from one member state to another and so rules are needed. and just so we 're clear , the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left behind. but it must be clear that this must not lead to social dumping and that the gradual opening of the market must therefore go hand in hand with the equalisation of the social rules of the game. the differences in tax and employment conditions should be eliminated as far as possible, preferably upwards, of course. the compromise to open the market in 2014 therefore seems to me to be justifiable, provided that amendments nos 47 and 48 are adopted, that the commission takes the 2012 study on the differences in social and working conditions seriously and, above all, that member states can still have a kind of alert procedure after 2014 in the event of a serious disruption of the national transport market. in the meantime, we need a clear definition of what is and is not allowed and, of course, adequate controls. as regards the driving and rest periods for bus drivers, it also seems logical to me - and some colleagues have already said this - that we postpone the vote so that the compromise reached by employers and workers last friday can be fully incorporated into our legislation. the compromise is on the table, but it has yet to be translated into legal language. the outcome of the discussions proves that social dialogue can work at european level. a good balance has been struck, taking account of the specific characteristics of the bus sector.
i would like to thank the commissioner, mr president, first and foremost, for his very clear and comprehensive reply, which also offers prospects for a more sustainable food aid programme, based on the evaluation which is now under way. i would simply like to ask whether that evaluation takes account of the fact that a large number of people still seem to be dependent on this food aid programme and that almost 16% of the european population live below the poverty line, and whether it also takes account of the current food crisis and the spectacular rise in food prices.
madam president, commissioner, thank you for this rather long and interesting reply. however, i would like to ask you, in relation to one of the factors that has triggered this crisis, namely financial speculation in agricultural products, what the commission intends to do in the wake of the scandalous behaviour of certain european banks, kbc and deutsche bank in particular, which, as you know, have advertised in a totally 'unethical' way in relation to the use of foodstuffs for speculation. i wrote, with my colleague marie-arlette carlotti, a letter to president barroso on 6 may - i have not yet received a acknowledgement of receipt, but i hope to have a reply one day - asking him, proposing to take any measure aimed at prohibiting, i read the text: 'the offer, distribution and promotion within the european union of financial instruments, including investment insurance and in particular insurance products, linked to investment funds when their yield is directly linked to speculation on the rise in the prices of food commodities'. could you tell me what the commission's intentions are in this respect?
as you know, this morning in kehl the french and german ministers for consumer affairs met to discuss the price differences between the two countries. these differences can be as high as 30% for certain consumer products. among the causes they cited were differences in retail trade structures, and in particular imperfect competition in some countries. internet sales should allow consumers to take advantage of these differences by buying in the most advantageous countries. however, mail order sales on the internet can sometimes be problematic. for example, french people cannot buy from certain german websites. will you take the necessary steps to ensure that the european internal market is finally a reality for the citizen?
member of the commission. − in my view you are indeed right that the country has made good progress for the past half-year or so in terms of some critical reforms such as the judiciary reform and the reform of public administration, as well as on the implementation of the police law. in fact, in the march communication we have set eight benchmarks based on key criteria, key priorities, of the accession partnership which reflect the necessary reforms we expect the former yugoslav republic of macedonia will be able to undertake, thereby achieving sufficient progress to allow us in our autumn report to propose a recommendation to start accession negotiations. this will depend upon concrete results in the reform work and we will of course reflect that in our progress report which is currently under preparation. i would like to point out that in order to start accession negotiations, in order for the commission recommendation to be accepted, in the council there is a requirement of unanimity of all eu member states and therefore, even though we see this as a bilateral issue, we have to take this into account as a political reality. as regards our recommendation, that depends solely on the progress achieved by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on the implementation of the reforms on the ground.
member of the commission. − i am very glad to respond to this question because i can do it very briefly. there is no fund provided by the european union to the turkish army in cyprus as suggested in the title of the question by the honourable member. under the pre-accession programme, ipa, the european union supports in turkey a project which is called ‘civic training for conscripts’, and this project indeed is run in turkey, not in cyprus. the purpose of this project is, through the turkish armed forces, to educate conscripts who are doing their military service on the issues of human rights, gender equality, women’s rights, children’s rights, protection of the environment, general health care and the fight against drug addiction: in my view all very worthy causes, and this is what this programme called ‘civic training for conscripts’ in turkey is aimed at achieving.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his answer, but i have two small questions in this connection. first of all, how does the commissioner explain the fact that such things are being circulated in the press? that information came from a press release and i believe it was mentioned in a turkish cypriot publication. secondly, how can the commission verify that some of these funds are not somehow going to the turkish occupation forces in cyprus and that they are not being used for their intended purpose?
i would like to point out to mr swoboda that it has already happened in europe that a political party was banned, and i refer to belgium, where the flemish bloc, the largest flemish party, was de facto banned in 2005. this is of course no excuse for turkey to ban political parties as well. that said, i am surprised, madam president, at the satisfaction of the council and the commission with the cosmetic amendment of the infamous article 301 of the turkish penal code, which will still restrict freedom of expression. instead of allegedly insulting turkish identity, it is now a criminal offence to allegedly insult the turkish nation. it is merely a matter of semantics, a matter which can still lead to actual prison sentences. article 301 should not be amended, it should be deleted, along with all the articles of legislation which are contrary to freedom of expression and to the fundamental democratic rights. if that does not happen, the negotiations must simply be stopped, as has always been promised. the negotiating process was promised to be in line with the reform process in turkey. well, it is not, especially with the promise of two new chapters soon to be opened. if the european union approves this kind of cosmetic make-up, it will lose all credibility and the whole further negotiation procedure will become a grotesque farce.
madam president, since i have only one minute, i shall come straight to the point. the spirit of conciliation of the rapporteur, mrs oomen-ruijten, has helped to avoid many pitfalls. there is one, however, a disagreement on the 14th amendment on reproductive health. for the socialists, this amendment is not a minor detail, a simple problem of a good woman. it is a sign of a clear separation of church and state, and a symbol of secularism. so if we want to stop the military or judicial coups from defending turkish secularism, let us leave this to the women. they'll defend it with their bodies. in a country that still practices honor killings, to demand sexual rights for women is to oppose any fundamentalist drift of any kind.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. amendments nos 108 and 117 are not compatible in my view. that is why i am proposing that the epp should support amendment no 108 and withdraw amendment no 117.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. as rapporteur, i agree with the proposal and so does the epp group, and i would like to make it clear that we have taken note of the agreement between the social partners. but we are taking the time to consider whether we can incorporate this into an amendment.
the oomen-ruijten report is another missed opportunity to put the spotlight on turkey's potential accession to the european union. the report focuses on a number of issues which i consider to be of secondary importance, but the essential point of the whole matter is that turkey is not a european country in any respect, will never be a european country in any respect, and that, consequently, there can be no question of accession by a non-european country to the european union. that's it! i would like to say, however, that i was surprised to hear in the debate, among others from my colleague swoboda of the socialists, that it is absolutely unacceptable that parties should be banned in turkey. i would remind you that in my country, belgium, the country's largest party, the flemish bloc, which received 24% of the vote, was simply outlawed in 2004 and had to be dissolved. i do not recall any protest by the socialists at the time. on the contrary, their solidarity is limited to the islamic fundamentalists, of whom i am a member.
in writing. the commission's communication addresses fundamental questions which will shape european company and accounting policy. the lehne report gives good answers to these questions, which i also approve. there is one problem, however, where the commission proposes to introduce a category of 'micro-entities'. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are not used to finance the creation of new jobs. the lehne report supports this approach and even proposes raising the thresholds. in belgium, this would relieve 75% of companies of the existing transparency obligations. the abolition of the accounting system for small enterprises may seem at first sight to be a major administrative simplification, but given the importance of financial information for all stakeholders (e.g. creditors), it will open the door to greater administrative burdens and higher costs. in the absence of generally accepted financial reporting, firms will be asked to provide the data, à la carte, in various ways. moreover, they deny themselves a useful tool of internal business monitoring, which is certainly important for an sme. that is why i abstained from the final vote.
i would also like to express my condolences to all the victims on behalf of our group of liberals and democrats. i would also like to join the chinese government in mourning the loss of the deceased. on monday, before i came to strasbourg, i went to the eu representation in brussels to sign the register of mourning on behalf of the delegation for relations with china and i assume also on behalf of the whole of parliament. last week, the bureau of the delegation also met the chinese ambassador, who told me how much he appreciated the solidarity of the european parliament. we are facing a huge catastrophe. tens of thousands of people have died or are still missing, millions of people are homeless, and the extent of the damage is hardly quantifiable at the moment. what we saw in the previous debate in burma we did not see in china. here we have a country where everyone, from the highest to the lowest level, is doing everything possible to help and to ensure that what can be saved can be saved. i also see a country that has communicated very openly and still communicates about the pain, about the despair of the people in sichuan, about the difficulties faced by the rescue teams, rescue teams who have even shot themselves in the head a few times. i see a country that is even open to the criticism of the aid given by the victims of the disaster, a picture that we ourselves are very familiar with whenever something similar happens. we must look to the future, madam president. i think china has asked us to do very specific things in terms of aid. i see that we are in solidarity and i thank the commission and also the council for what they have done and i urge them to continue to provide assistance where the chinese ask for it. when the rescue operations are over, reconstruction must begin and we must be able to help with whatever we can. in the longer term, i would also ask that we look at how we can provide technical assistance in building regulations and building techniques that make buildings more resilient to these kinds of events. it could also be a task for the world community to look at what we can do to have some kind of early warning system, a system that warns people of such disasters. we must at least try to build that. i think there are a lot of regions in the world that could benefit from that. i think it is important that we in the european parliament have expressed our solidarity with the chinese in this debate.
the fight to eliminate the use of depleted uranium in weapons and ammunition worldwide is part of our overall struggle for arms control and disarmament. our very special attention is directed to weapons and munitions which are extremely dangerous and harmful to civilians and which remain dangerous long after the conflict has ended, such as landmines, cluster munitions, and weapons and munitions containing depleted uranium. i know it's a little ironic to talk about weapons that are more dangerous and more harmful than others, but that's the way it is. that is why we are concentrating on those which could have the most serious consequences for innocent civilians. in november 2006, our parliament called for a moratorium on this type of weapon, namely weapons containing depleted uranium. my country, belgium, last year enacted not just such a moratorium but a real ban on all use of uranium weapons by law and i think i can be a little proud of that. i would now like to hear from the commission and the council what they will do to make this moratorium general and to support a general ban. in addition, as the previous speaker has pointed out at length, uranium weapons also appear to have a negative effect on the soldiers who use them or are exposed to their use. and even if there may not yet be total security, it is appropriate that the council should ensure that soldiers and other personnel involved in missions under the european security and defence policy are not exposed to such risks. i would therefore like to hear from the council what concrete measures are being taken to ensure that soldiers and personnel participating in such missions are not exposed to such risks and to ensure that the population of the areas where such missions are deployed are not exposed to them either. i thank you for the answers you will give me.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the aid it provides to developing countries, such as the creation of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet). unlike the previous monterrey declarations, the paris declaration set out clear objectives, translated into 12 measurable actions and indicators, which is a major step forward. in december this year, in accra, a first assessment will be made of what has and has not been achieved in terms of all these fine promises. the european commission has, it must be said, made a great effort in recent years to implement the new aid agenda. it can boast of its achievements in terms of division of labour, better coordination and respect for local input. in 2006, under the impetus of commissioner michel, it went even further than the paris commitments by adopting an ambitious action plan and the concept of division of labour and results-oriented management. but the work is not done. many of the proposals have yet to be put into practice. for example, aid is still not sufficiently adapted to national systems and too many different payment systems are still used. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the technical cooperation is still too much donor-driven. the donor atlas needs to be updated and extended, particularly in the light of the most neglected countries and sectors. the adoption of the code of conduct on the division of labour also remains problematic. firstly, madam president, because the member states are not keeping their commitments. member states are lagging behind in terms of both scale and efficiency. for the first time since 2000, the percentage of expenditure on official aid fell from 0.41% in 2006 to 0.38% in 2007. the achievement of the millennium development goals will require a radical change of direction. the council must urgently reaffirm its commitments if it is to maintain its credibility. the member states must commit themselves to a timeframe for the quantity, but also for the quality, of aid. quantity and quality are inextricably linked. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. but this requires a permanent dialogue with civil society, with local authorities and, above all, with parliaments. more transparency is a sine qua non. increased budget support presupposes effective parliamentary control of all the funds committed and disbursed. that is why this report calls for a 13th indicator to be added to the paris agenda. if the role of the european and african parliaments in ensuring greater efficiency is so important, why not translate this into an additional indicator? the union must take its responsibility as the largest donor in accra. she must first of all have her own house in order. only then can it take a credible lead in accra and put forward an ambitious plan. the union has the expertise, but also the capacity, to become the most efficient donor. the key now is to translate promises into action on the ground. this is the essence of the report before us, and i would ask you to support it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in history, in our history - and you have mentioned this - the total amount of european official development aid has fallen. if we continue along this path, between 2005 and 2010, the european union will have given billions less aid than it has committed to. this is a significant step backwards in the pursuit of the 0.7% development target but also - and this is very important - in the pursuit of the millennium development goals and, more broadly, in the fight we claim to want to fight against poverty in the world. the process we started in 2006 to improve the effectiveness of our development aid and which we are continuing with the report by our colleague johan van hecke, whom i thank for the work he has done, cannot be a pretext for member states not to meet their commitments to increase aid. on the contrary, since everyone agrees today that in addition to the amounts promised, additional means will be needed to meet the many commitments we have made and will probably have to make. aid effectiveness is therefore essential, because more aid effectiveness means more aid. it's got to be clear to everyone. in this connection, i would like to remind you, as i have always done, that it is time to make very concrete progress on the application of innovative financing instruments to development aid, a matter which is explicitly mentioned in the paris declaration. we wanted our report to also mention the role of the diasporas in development cooperation. the european union is still far too cold on this point, when it could gain so much by working more closely with our fellow citizens from partner countries living on its territory. it would also be a way of integrating rather than excluding a great many people, a message which i hold dear at a time when some europeans are taking surprising positions, shocking measures. finally, i would like to point out that aid will never be as effective as when there is, as you have often said, mr commissioner, real coherence between the various policies of the european union and when aid is no longer guided by policies which have nothing to do with development. the news is here to show us that this consistency does not yet exist everywhere. this situation will continue as long as the oecd's development assistance committee, which is the authority on this subject, continues to refer to an extremely broad definition of development cooperation. the improvement of our efficiency will also pass through this. commissioner, two years ago, i presented a first report on aid effectiveness in this very house. where are we today in relation to all that has been said and which we repeat tirelessly? in any case, commissioner, you can count on the socialists to carry out our and your struggles, to improve efficiency for the benefit of the world's poorest.
i would like to congratulate rapporteur johan van hecke on a good report. i would also like to thank you, commissioner, for a very good staff working paper on accra. three points for you. firstly, more effective aid does require that donor countries coordinate their aid more closely on the basis of a country strategy with the southern partner countries taking the lead. but that means that the priorities must also be set in those countries democratically, in cooperation with national parliaments and ngos, which is not the case today. i also think it is absolutely essential to involve women in the dialogue. secondly, donor countries must absolutely abandon the myriad of conditions they place on aid and fully commit to measurable results. the economic conditions imposed by the imf and the world bank must be removed, since they are often in conflict with the millennium development goals. so, johan, we shall abolish paragraph 28 in the report. third, better aid is no excuse for less aid. at the moment, not only is development aid falling, but the figures are also clouded by so-called aid which does not really help the partner countries, such as money spent in europe on students or refugees or debt relief. it is therefore crucial that the donor countries reaffirm their commitments for the 0.7% and set concrete timetables. i hope, commissioner, that the council will listen to this message on monday.
- i'm the reporter. - the high-level constructive debate today has shown that there is a broad consensus both within parliament and between parliament and the commission on the way forward to improve the quality of our aid. the priorities of the countries themselves must be taken into account more. we need to make the help more predictable. the technical assistance should be further reduced. more budget support is needed, but also more transparency and involvement of parliaments, civil society and local authorities. the code of conduct must be made more effective and the donor atlas extended, and so on. but the crux of the matter seems to me to be that together, parliament and the commission - and why should we not also involve the national parliaments - should put pressure on the member states to first and foremost confirm their commitments and secondly to adopt a roadmap, in which they very clearly indicate what can and will be done within what time frame. thirdly, they must also be clearly involved in the division of labour proposed by the commission. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that we must take the initiative, across party lines, with our friends and colleagues in the national parliaments, to increase the pressure on the boiler of governments, where the collective responsibility, but also the individual responsibility of a number of member states, is at stake. the report makes a number of specific recommendations. i hope very much that the commission and the council will take these recommendations to accra. parliament - and this is not always the case - speaks here today with one voice and expresses the wish that the european union will also speak with one voice in accra, a clear voice, a loud voice and above all a credible voice.
author. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, initially we did not want our parliament to deal with the situation in burundi at this stage because, as you know, the burundian authorities and the fnl are in the middle of negotiations, a critical phase which is now at last coming to a positive conclusion and which should, we hope, lead to the implementation of the agreements reached in dar es salaam, which are intended to put an end to the fighting, violence and insecurity in the country. and as we know today, a butterfly's wing beating in strasbourg can sometimes cause an earthquake thousands of miles away. on the other hand, it would have been incomprehensible not to mention the situation of this small country, which is an orphan in terms of development, because it lacks the natural resources that often attract donors. we therefore, in agreement with the other political groups, wanted to make this resolution a voluntary appeal to this partner country in the difficult great lakes region. we have wanted to reiterate the desire of the european union, in particular of our parliament and of you, mr commissioner, to find new avenues of development aid which are more effective in countries which are weakened by situations of conflict, civil war in this case, in which democratic reconstruction, the restoration of devastated public services, the revival of such basic policies as health and education are better and more rapidly taken into account and supported. we wanted to include this resolution in the action plan which the netherlands has been asked to prepare for burundi, which was selected, and we are pleased to do so as one of the three pilot countries in this new approach. our wish is therefore clearly stated. we want burundi to become a model of development and to achieve this, the authorities of this small state must have the necessary financial means and support in terms of public, political and economic reconstruction. our parliament will be following this development very closely, but it also wishes to appeal to burundian parliamentarians of all political persuasions to find urgently the formulas to make their institutions, which have been blocked for months, work again, to debate and vote, to enable the government to implement the reconstruction projects such as the long-awaited reform of the judiciary and the renewal of the health system, among other urgent matters. finally, we would like to point out that burundi, one of the poorest countries in the world, is proportionately the country which receives the least per capita development aid. this can't go on. we want additional funds to be made available quickly to finance priority development programmes, particularly the totally devastated infrastructure. the european union is one of only five member states represented in burundi, a country where everything is possible. we hope that they will seriously organise their coordination upstream of decision-making in european capitals and that delegations responsible for implementing development policies will continue to work together and increase their staffing levels. in conclusion, i would like to stress the point in our resolution which calls for the maintenance or even the increase of much-needed humanitarian aid and for the withdrawal of aid to be organised in good agreement with the intensification of development policies, the implementation of which is more complex. and in this connection, we wanted to stress that we should not overlook the visibility of the actions carried out on the ground by the burundian authorities, supported by the european union and the member states. beyond the resolution of the conflict with the fnl and the return to greater security, burundians urgently need to see a positive development in their country in their very difficult daily lives.
the reports by our colleagues saryusz-wolski and kuhne are important documents and it is impossible to deal with all the aspects in a short time. so i'm going to focus on three of them. firstly, the role of our parliament in foreign and defence affairs, secondly, the very great responsibility of all member states for a coherent and effective foreign and security policy and, finally, the need to continue the fight against the proliferation of nuclear weapons and to continue to work for general arms control. the fact that we are having this debate here this afternoon with these participants is a good example of the extent to which we as the european parliament have succeeded in giving ourselves a greater role in foreign and security policy, even though this was not at all the original intention of the existing treaties. it is our determination that has led to this and also the understanding that we have found both with the commission and with the high representative and that has led to an interinstitutional agreement that makes debates like the present possible. we will of course make use of all the possibilities of the lisbon treaty to continue to play our full part. it is also because we have never exaggerated, because we have taken care not to overplay our hand, as they would say in english, that we have been able to play this role. it is clear that an effective foreign and security policy, as mr swoboda has stressed, is only possible if all the member states and the governments of all 27 member states, including the large ones, are willing to act in unison. we can make fine speeches here and everyone can make fine speeches here, but when heads of government, prime ministers or foreign ministers are each doing something different on the world stage, it cannot, it will not succeed. so the responsibility of our member states is very great, not only in the area i have mentioned, but also in making their words follow their deeds. we have had to experience this painfully, for example, in the preparations for the intervention in chad. a positive decision was taken and then it took weeks to assemble the troops and all the material. this is a very serious loss of credibility and i hope that we will all work together to ensure that this does not happen again in the future.
the partnership between the european union and the united states is a cornerstone of the eu's external policy, as the joint resolution rightly states. such a partnership presupposes a number of self-evident agreements, such as the principle that we do not interfere in the internal affairs of the other partner. i regret to note that our american allies have not always been able to do so in recent years, even in recent times. for example, the president and the state department have repeatedly spoken out and pressed for turkey's accession to the european union. this is unacceptable. it is as if the european council or the european commission were pushing for the accession or integration of mexico into the united states. it is not because turkey is a nato member state that it must be able to join the european union. nato is important to the european union, but it is not the european union. the two are separate issues, and next week's summit is a good opportunity to recall them in a friendly but firm manner.
the rapporteur. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report i drafted for the committee on development gives an overview of the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2007. those of you who are actively involved in this work or who are interested in it further know that this is not a purely formal or symbolic structure. on the contrary, this house is increasingly acting like a genuine parliamentary assembly. its members are increasingly invested in it, influential personalities are rushing to join it and it is therefore acquiring increasing political importance. that is the first point i wanted to stress. the growing political importance of this assembly is also due to the fact that, in addition to the substantive issues relating to cooperation between the acp countries and the union, topical issues of great importance to both europeans and acp countries are discussed together. this is the case, for example, of the economic partnership agreements negotiated between the union and the acp countries. on a matter like this, the parliamentary assembly confirmed in the kigali declaration that the main stakeholders very clearly wanted the european commission to give the acp countries the time they needed to negotiate regional agreements with development as their priority objective. kigali has not only shown that there is real resistance to these agreements as they are currently being negotiated, but also that it is based on quite legitimate concerns which will now have to be taken seriously into account. similarly, it was only by participating in the assembly's proceedings that many acp parliamentarians became aware of the existence of country-specific strategy papers which, however, define the lines of cooperation to be carried out between the european union and their own countries. this situation is a reminder that for many acp parliamentarians this house is sometimes the only place where democratic expression is possible. i would also like to emphasise that in 2007 we clearly saw an increasingly important investment by civil society in the acp countries, who organise meetings and work of very high quality on the sidelines of each of the sessions organised by the assembly. in the fight for development waged by civil society in the acp countries, the assembly also provides an extraordinary opportunity for exchange and meeting. in this connection, the union must be able to provide technical and financial support for the presence of these associations and ngos in the work of the joint assembly. finally, i would like to stress that in our report we encourage the joint parliamentary assembly to strengthen the role of its political affairs committee. the idea is to make it a genuine forum for conflict prevention and resolution and to encourage close coordination between the activities of acp and eu parliamentarians as electoral observers in the context of electoral observation missions. for the rest, you should know that in 2007 the assembly met in wiesbaden and then in kigali. nine resolutions were adopted. standing committees met four times, twice in the margins of the sessions and twice between them in brussels. these committees, which are responsible for monitoring resolutions, have been organising since 2007 hearings of officials responsible for the committee in the relevant areas. in addition to several reports, the wiesbaden session adopted a resolution on the situation in darfur. there was a very constructive emergency debate on the situation in zimbabwe. the workshops on immigration, climate change, medicines for neglected diseases, all attracted a large number of participants with keen interest. the kigali session adopted the three resolutions contained in the reports of the standing committees, as well as two emergency resolutions on national disasters in the acp countries and on the situation in the congo. that is, mr president, madam commissioner, a brief summary of a report which is certainly formal, but which i wanted to give a political content which should help to make the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly better known and to support it more effectively.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, thank you for your answers and comments. i would simply point out that the parliamentary assembly is indeed a parliamentary affair, but that the commission plays an important role, of course, in development policies at european level and that as such i would like the commission not to regard - and i believe commissioner michel is one of them - the work of this house as anecdotal work, not to regard this house as a kind of safety valve where we discuss points of tension among ourselves, but on the contrary to take genuine account of what is expressed there, because, unfortunately for many of our acp colleagues, this is the only place where they have the opportunity to express themselves. i would like to stress in this connection that, whether it is the economic partnership agreements or the national strategic plans, we have observed that there has been no debate in the acp parliaments so far. even though we support the elected representatives of the people, we finance elections everywhere, we wish to export our democratic model, we do not have time to consult these elected parliaments and some of your colleagues are, as my colleague mr carlotti said, bulldozing all these things. i hope, therefore, that you will be able to take this work and its quality seriously into account at commission level. i was commended for my report. i thank my colleagues and i would also like to congratulate our colleague mrs kinnock, who is not here because, precisely in her capacity as president of the assembly, she is somewhere in the caribbean. i would like to congratulate her on the extraordinary work she is doing as co-chair of this joint assembly.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the resolution on the future of professional football, which we adopted last year here on these very benches, we explicitly call on the council of ministers to take measures to combat criminal activities in professional football, such as forced prostitution. it's literally in there. to be clear, it is not the fault of the football authorities that these phenomena occur in the margins of major tournaments. it's almost a hallmark of all major international events. but of course sport has a vested interest in seeing this problem tackled efficiently and profoundly. because, of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is of little use to advocate and fight for fairer play in the stadiums and against racism in the stations if the excesses of slavery are tolerated in and around the stadiums. the red card campaign against forced prostitution worked very well during the 2006 world cup in germany. around 1000 local and regional action groups and associations were involved in this prevention campaign, which has clearly discouraged traffickers and other criminal networks. as a result - and the commissioner has already referred to this - the number of cases of forced prostitution during the 2006 world cup in germany has been limited to a few dozen cases, most of which were not directly related to the world cup. so it's clear that awareness and prevention are working. they are very effective and we must therefore use them again, also at the next european championship which begins this week. we therefore urge the european commission, commissioner, to send a letter to the governments concerned, namely those of austria and switzerland, as mrs wortmann-kool has just rightly pointed out. i'll repeat our question for you. can you confirm that you will support this initiative? one more thing: prevention alone will not be enough. the member states agreed in 2005 to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings, but the action plan you spoke of, commissioner, is often more than ever a dead letter in the national arena. so now is the time to remind the authorities of that. the commissioner frattini said here two years ago that the role of europol and eurojust should be strengthened in this respect, and parliament has also explicitly called for this in its resolution. we therefore also count on the commission and the council, mr commissioner, to put those promises into practice more than ever on the occasion of this tournament.
i would also like to thank our rapporteur, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, for the good cooperation he has shown, because at first sight it seems to be a simple dossier, but if we listen to the speakers, it is not at all. it should be clear to everyone that each company must indeed pursue optimal hygiene guarantees, but the way in which this objective is to be achieved cannot, of course, be the same for all companies. i think it is crucial that the competent authorities in the various member states should use the flexibility already provided for in the present regulation and exempt certain food businesses from the haccp procedure, which is very complicated, provided, of course, that the same safety in terms of hygiene can be demonstrated and guaranteed. i believe that this can be done by following good hygiene practices based on sectoral guides, which have already been drawn up in a number of countries. i would like to ask the commissioner - if he could listen for a moment, because i see that he is in conversation with our rapporteur - if he can clarify a few things. he said that all food businesses, regardless of their size, are covered. i would like to hear him say again whether he really thinks that the present report provides more flexibility for a wider range of food businesses and not just micro-businesses. secondly, the commissioner has just said that there is no additional burden on the member states, but perhaps on the companies. i would therefore very much like to know whether the evidence which the companies have to provide can indeed be provided on the basis of the sector guide, so that the companies are not also subject to additional administrative burdens.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. we have already had this debate in strasbourg. i shall therefore not go into that today. we have also found a very good compromise between the political groups for the so-called 12-day trips, by presenting the results of the negotiations between the social partners. we can even say that we have improved the compromise of the social partners here in the house. i hope that this will be a very good outcome and that it will be widely accepted. i would also like to take this opportunity to point out that i would ask you to put the english text to the vote in amendment no 31, since i have already noted that the french and german texts lack a very important word.
the resolution on the euro-american summit, mr president, obviously covers a wide range of subjects. some of the points made in this resolution are absolutely unacceptable to me, others are particularly valuable. i could not help but vote for it. i would add, however, that this resolution should have contained a clear paragraph in the first place, to remind the united states that it should not interfere with the potential enlargement of the european union. the way in which the united states systematically intervenes to defend the unacceptable turkish dossier is to me an unacceptable interference in a european matter. the united states must realize that there is a huge difference between the interests of nato on the one hand and the interests of the european union and the peoples of europe on the other. turkey cannot join the european union because it is not a european country. we ask nothing more and nothing less than respect from the united states.
in writing. - mr president, if we are in favour of smes, we must make legislation that they can also comply with. the same applies to the hygiene rules for the food sector. last year the commission proposed that the provisions of regulation 852/2004 be better adapted to what is feasible for the smallest enterprises. the amendments proposed by the commission are very useful because they continue to impose hygiene requirements on small businesses, but at the same time they also reduce the administrative burden and the obligations where they are really not feasible for small businesses. on the one hand, it is a pity that the european parliament does not follow the european commission fully. on the other hand, i voted in favour of the final report because we were able to reach a solution. i regret, however, that the responsibility is being shifted to the member states. member states will now have to take their responsibility and allow their smes to deviate from the strict haccp requirements.
in writing. our message is clear: denounce the dangerous escalation of the conflict in the region and reiterate eu support for georgia. recent developments in georgia, and particularly in abkhazia, are worrying. a deterioration in relations between georgia and russia risks having a negative impact on the caucasus region. i was part of the delegation to observe the elections in georgia on 21 may 2008, where i witnessed the intense efforts made by tbilisi in its democratization process. these significant advances, which i observed when i inspected 14 polling stations in the gori area, should not obscure the difficulties which remain in the region. much remains to be done and the eu will need to play a role, beyond election observation, in supporting a long-term reform process. the eu must learn from the experience of the balkans and cannot remain passive in the face of a conflict in its neighbourhood. in approving this resolution, i call on both sides of the conflict to refrain from any further action which could lead to an escalation of tensions. it is essential that we focus our efforts on rebuilding dialogue and getting russia to withdraw its troops from abkhazia.
madam president, i think it is clear that the compromise before us is a substantial step forward for european environmental legislation. but i'm not entirely happy with the compromise. why not? - why not? my region of flanders is at the top of the waste policy list, together with the netherlands, for example, and is a champion in sorting and recycling, and so we feel that the recycling and prevention objectives provided for are absolutely inadequate. it does not really give us any incentive to do even better in the future. we are also not entirely happy with the possibility of considering domestic waste incinerators as a useful application based on that energy efficiency formula which in practice we believe can lead to a great deal of confusion. i am convinced, however, that the overall balance should be regarded as very positive and i would therefore like to congratulate mrs jackson on her enormous effort. we will support the compromise.
the fact that the commission has not taken any action to combat the scourge of the presence of millions of illegal immigrants in europe is particularly regrettable, mr president, as is shown by the hysterical reactions of the politically correct left-wing opinion-makers to this return directive. sorry, this is not a return policy. they even oblige member states to provide free legal aid to illegal aliens to challenge their expulsion. in addition, at least seven member states are obliged to reduce their detention limits. moreover, the directive actually puts the two choices of either deportation or regularisation on more or less the same level, as if it were a neutral choice, whereas the massive regularisations in several member states in recent years have had a massive suction effect and also weighed heavily on the other european countries. in conclusion, i wish this was a real return directive that would stop the sucking up of illegals once and for all, but unfortunately that is not the case. i am far from certain that this will be even a first small step in the right direction.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are debating a very delicate problem today - it divides this house - and at the same time a very sensitive, if not dramatic, problem, since it is likely to have fundamental consequences for the living conditions and even the lives of people who are seeking, even illegally, to come to europe to find a future that their country cannot offer them. i shall not repeat what has already been said by other speakers but will emphasize four specific points. the first is to my colleague and friend, giusto catania. it is unfair, giusto, to speak of fortress europe as if it does not accept anyone on its territory and as if it is insensitive to the misery of millions of people. according to official figures, there are now between 1.5 and 2 million immigrants who enter the european union legally every year, coming through the path of regularisation, through family reunification, through recognition of political refugee status. this means that at this rate, if we continue for 30 years - and i have no objection to this happening - between 45 and 60 million people will enter the european union legally. secondly, this directive, even if it has shortcomings, and i admit that it does, is not a regulation. in fact, it is practically a framework directive which leaves each country a margin of appreciation - with the exception of the minimum standards it sets and the limits it establishes which cannot be exceeded - it leaves each of the states the possibility of having legislation which corresponds to what the democratic majority of these countries will decide. in addition, it is provided that every three years the commission will report to parliament and that it may propose amendments. read the directive! thirdly, we must stop - i say this to some of our socialist friends - from proclaiming untruths which are too strong. the directive does not establish detention as a rule. article 14 of the directive provides for the possibility of detention in cases which are defined and it also subjects them to extremely strict judicial control. you have to read article 14 (2). so to say that detention is the rule, that it is imposed on the member states, is a falsehood. we must not stir up public opinion. there are enough real problems to invent problems that aren't real. the fourth and final point, mr president, is a message to manfred weber and the epp. despite all the shortcomings i acknowledge, i will vote for the directive, but i ask the epp not to try to solve, by means of procedural manoeuvres, problems which are essentially political and which can divide our assembly. whatever vote this house takes this morning, i think it must be respected.
madam president, i would like to echo the previous speaker in saying that i personally remain attached to the old european idea of harmonisation in progress, that is to say, harmonisation from the top down. i wonder why the commission has not agreed to align the legislation with the standards which are the most protective for people in difficulty. i think it should be stressed that council declarations have no binding legal value and that if there is such a consciousness of the risk of a bottom-up approach then a legal provision must be inscribed in the body of the directive itself. i also believe that a european solidarity fund is necessary and must be developed to help countries in difficult situations - particularly financial - in terms of legal aid. i would like to make a second comment on the procedure. mr barrot, we are in a circumvented codecision procedure. i'm one of 780 members of congress. this is the only time today that i have the opportunity to speak and table amendments, and if we do not want detention to be out of the rule, then mr deprez, read amendments 82 or 95 which clarify, for example, what is meant by the risk of leakage. read the amendments and vote on amendments nos 79 and 98, which specify the conditions under which unaccompanied minors can be expelled from the territory of the european union. the amendments tabled are intended to improve the text and i do not think that parliament can be left in a quasi-approval procedure, as is indeed the case at the moment.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by expressing my special thanks to our rapporteur for his enormously hard work, but also for his perseverance on this very crucial issue. it is of course very difficult to introduce new elements at the end of the debate, but i am happy to join my colleagues in saying that this directive is only a first but a very necessary step in a global migration policy. we all have the same problems and challenges and it is clear that our citizens will only accept and understand legal migration if the politicians make it very clear that illegal migration will not be accepted under any circumstances. we see that a third of our member states have no rules at all in this area and that therefore any legislation we adopt here for those countries is actually a step forward in terms of protecting the illegal ones themselves. i would like to say to the opponents that in countries which already provide adequate protection, little or nothing changes and that the council also gave its clear word that the directive will not be used to undermine protection in countries where it goes beyond the protection provided for in the directive. finally, it should also be clear that member states can go beyond the directive. as regards implementation and follow-up, i think it is very important that the commission, but also the national parliaments, bear a very important responsibility here, because it is obvious that there is a need to implement these expulsions effectively. finally, madam president, i hope that a majority in this house will look beyond the political dogmas and games and will also be willing to contribute to a realistic, thorough, clear and humane solution, in the interests of the eu, but much more in the interests of the illegal immigrants themselves.
in writing. - as greens we supported some 30 compromise amendments. we have tried to tighten the text with further amendments on hazardous waste, the treatment of bio-waste, the 'end-of-waste' status and the concept of by-products and waste which is no longer waste. we wanted binding targets to reduce the total waste mountain and to focus on recycling and reuse. we are opposed to the idea that household incinerators can be considered as a useful application based on an energy efficiency formula. the text finally adopted does not set a legally binding target for waste reduction. the proposal to fund a study on how to prevent waste is absolutely inadequate in that respect. although the recycling and reuse targets were set at 50% and 70% respectively and member states are required to take legislative measures, the targets themselves are not legally binding. a missed opportunity, without a doubt! this revised framework directive risks, for my constituency, that some people will take advantage of the 'weaker' european standards to 'temporise' some of the efforts we are already making. flanders is the world champion in this field. we're at the absolute top. and this amended framework directive does not really encourage us to do even better. - that's too bad.
in writing. - president, belgium has been a pioneer in waste policy for many years. i would therefore have preferred a slightly more ambitious text. but i think that the agreement which mr jackson was able to reach with the slovenian presidency shows that it has excellent negotiating skills and a sense of compromise. a european waste hierarchy is introduced for the first time. substantial progress is also being made in the prevention, recycling and selective collection of household waste. i think that it is too risky to jeopardize the existing agreement again and to gamble on a third reading. i voted in favour of the agreement because it is particularly important that the directive should also be effective.
- i'm the reporter. - the report by mr moreland, on behalf of the committee on energy, research and technology (a4-0177/97) on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0171 - c4-0177/97) for a directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles structural unbundling of the energy sector is needed today more than ever, but it should not be an end in itself. the question is and remains: is it better for the consumer? it's not obvious. if we look at the situation on the ground, i find that in my country, belgium, consumers will pay on average eur 300 more for their energy bill in 2008 than in 2007. i realize that this is due in large part to the rising price of oil, but certainly not entirely. for example, the figures provided by mrs kuneva show that 20 to 32% of the british who have changed operators since the market opened up are worse off today than they were before. it is therefore essential that consumers should be aware of their rights in the energy sector. this is definitely not the case today. there is a lack of comprehensible information on these rights. hence the need for a strong, clear and comprehensible document that sets out the existing rights, a charter. mrs morgan has already spoken about what should be in it. i would like to add a few more elements. that the consumer should be able to change operators, yes, free of charge and within a month, certainly, but that is why the consumer should also be able to compare offers and that is why it is important that there should also be standard contracts and standard invoices. in order to be able to compare, consumers must have a clear view of their actual energy consumption and be informed at least four times a year of their actual consumption. mrs morgan has also spoken about this - and i support those ideas; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of the smart meter, which is also included in my report. as regards social charges, i would say to mr vidal-quadras that we believe that their application should be a possibility for the member states, an appropriate instrument. that is all we want to do away with, mr vidal-quadras, in the matter of social charges. so i think it is not impossible to support that. it also seems important that there are physical points of contact where information can be obtained. the digital divide is still an incredible reality today. and last but not least, perhaps most importantly. if the consumer is to be aware of his rights and thus be well informed, we believe it is essential that he be sent a copy of the existing rights, which are clearly and comprehensibly listed, when a contract is concluded. that is what our group is asking for, nothing more and nothing less, to bring together the existing rights and to give them to the consumer in a readable document. i do not understand the commission's attitude, commissioner piebalgs, nor do i understand the attitude of the other groups. the commission announced a charter a few months ago. we're now a few months into it, and we're just down to a simple, informative checklist. we feel it is necessary to go one step further. i therefore call on the other groups to support the amendment tabled by the socialist group. we are not really inventing hot water, we are simply asking that the consumer be informed of the existing rights by sending him or her a copy when concluding a contract. if the main problem today - and this is what the european commission is saying - is clear information and the lack of it, well, then i think our proposal will provide a solution.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, i am glad that today we have not only discussed unbundling but also consumer rights. i would like to urge, before the vote on thursday, support for three amendments to further improve those consumer rights and to inform consumers regularly about their use. i think it's not too much to say that this should happen four times a year. the idea of smart meters, too, is to set a deadline for this, namely 10 years after the directive enters into force. finally, on the subject of the national action plans for energy poverty, i would like to say to alejo vidal-quadras that we are only citing the social tariffs as an example for the member states to use as a possible instrument. these are three amendments which we are calling for in order to improve consumer rights. finally, mr president, i am disappointed by the commissioner's reply, which leaves consumer rights to the member states in the name of subsidiarity. we are going to the european energy market. so tomorrow a british citizen will be confronted by a german supplier. i think that we should also be able to give a european answer to the consumer from within the european energy market.
the commission's vice-president - i think i can say that frontex's initial actions seem satisfactory, but it is true that this agency depends on the member states for the technical equipment needed for the operations it coordinates. it is true that these are often very expensive means which the agency is not in a position to purchase because of its limited budget. the purchase of a helicopter would be equivalent to the annual budget of frontex operations, i.e. eur 40-50 million. frontex has therefore concluded technical agreements with the majority of member states on the conditions of use of the equipment made available to it. in its evaluation report, the commission recommended that frontex could buy or lease its own equipment, at least for a number of small items of equipment. that's what we can say today. i thank you for reminding me that frontex is based in warsaw and that there are indeed very motivated people there. i want to thank you for making a connection with frontex. i believe that in view of what frontex is doing now, we will be able, as the evaluations progress, to see what improvements need to be made to its operation.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, any measures taken by the european union or its member states to combat terrorism must of course take account of fundamental rights. the instruments or policies for combating terrorism which do not respect fundamental rights very often play into the hands of the terrorists themselves. the data retention directive requires member states to require providers of communication services and public electronic networks to retain data relating to the exchange of communications for a minimum of six months and a maximum of two years. this directive provides important safeguards against the misuse of data. the directive states that the preservation of the content of communications is strictly outside the mandate of the directive. the directive also states that access to retained data must be defined by the domestic law of each member state, that these provisions must be in accordance with the european convention on human rights and, of course, respect the principle of proportionality and necessity. this means that data retained under the directive cannot be processed by the authorities of a member state to interfere with a person's privacy, except in very justified cases for the purpose of detecting and prosecuting a serious criminal offence. the directive requires that the data retained can only be accessed by the competent national administrations. this means, of course, that the data stored cannot be used by companies or private individuals. of course, the fact that this access to stored data is limited means that once again, we cannot use this data to monitor citizens. in addition, directive 95/46 on data protection and directive 2002/58 on data protection in the electronic communications sector apply, of course, to data retained in accordance with the directive. in conclusion, mr president, the data retention directive is essential to make the police more efficient and to study, detect and search for terrorists, while ensuring respect for the privacy of individuals and the protection of personal data. the commission will monitor and ensure that the implementation and application of the directive by the member states is done in accordance with fundamental rights.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i have to say that for the data retention directive, 15 member states have notified their transposition instruments and the commission has initiated infringement proceedings for failure to notify against all member states which had not notified the appropriate measures by the end of november 2007. in answer to your question, the commission has set up a group of experts to assist the commission in analysing the effectiveness of this directive and the balance you want. the commission will report in september 2010 to take stock of the directive's contribution to the investigation, detection and prosecution of serious infringements. the commission will of course examine any comments which may be forwarded to it by the member states or by the working party set up by the article of the directive. i think i can confirm that we really have to make sure that this is in line with the data retention directives and the data protection directive. i therefore believe that if there are data breaches here and there, we will draw the conclusions immediately. i think we have really tried to respect the necessities of the fight against terrorism and to reconcile them with the protection of fundamental rights. that is what i have to do now, and i will be very careful, mr mitchell.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, you are right; we must ensure that data protection is respected. the data protection officer is also responsible for monitoring all this. you're right, we need cooperation; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are respected. so i think that cooperation is progressing at the moment. this group is called the 'article 29' group because article 29 of the directive provided that the independent data protection authorities of each member state were to meet. i think there is a good tool here and it should be used. that's all i could tell you.
the commission's vice-president - i thank mr moraes for raising this important issue. the european arrest warrant has really achieved significant results. the innovation is the mutual recognition of legal decisions and there is no longer a requirement for double incrimination for a list of 32 serious offences. this makes the procedures quicker. compared to the lengthy extradition procedure which usually takes over a year, a surrender procedure through the european arrest warrant takes on average only 43 days. all of this is happening judge to judge. the new procedure is widely used by the member states. in 2006, 6 752 european arrest warrants were issued. 2 042 persons were arrested on this basis and 1 892 persons were actually handed over. more than one fifth of the persons surrendered in accordance with the eaw procedure were nationals of the executing member state. when you consider that in 2006 there were almost as many arrest warrants as there had been proceedings in 10 years, it is clear that the european arrest warrant was a success. the initial constitutional problems of some member states have been overcome. nevertheless, mr moraes, it must be admitted that in the case of the surrender of national nationals, the use of old extradition practices, which are a sign of residual distrust in certain states and in certain criminal justice systems, has sometimes been observed, but we believe that this will disappear and that the system will be able to function optimally. on the basis of an analysis of the transposition of the framework decision into the legislation of the member states, the commission reported in 2005 and 2007 on the functioning of the european arrest warrant. this has revealed some adjustments in the member states. a series of peer reviews are currently being conducted, in which the commission is participating as an observer. this series of evaluations will be completed in early 2009 and it is then, on the basis of the outcome of these evaluations, that the commission will present a new report identifying the different practices, shortcomings and issues examined at european union level to further improve the quality of the functioning of the european arrest warrant, which nevertheless remains, in my view, one of the great successes of the principle of mutual recognition.
the commission's vice-president - mr moraes, first of all i would like to remind you that, on the basis of the current treaties, the commission does not have the power to initiate infringement proceedings against a member state, in this case, if during the monitoring and evaluation procedures, incorrect implementation of the framework decision is noted. however, i can tell you that i will be very attentive to the implementation of the european arrest warrant. the forum on justice, which we will be organising periodically, will be an opportunity for us to bring together judges from all the member states of the union, and we will use this opportunity to make even greater progress in the proper use of the european arrest warrant. i thank you for asking this question and i can assure you that we will do our utmost. i would add that the strengthening of eurojust will also enable us to make better use of the european arrest warrant.
the commission's vice-president - you are quite right, the european arrest warrant must be a success, because it is really entering into a system of mutual recognition, which means that at this point the different judicial authorities begin to really work together in a climate of trust. that is why the proper use of the european arrest warrant, which has greatly accelerated and simplified the procedures, must really be the very example of this new justice which you so ardently desire, much faster and obviously much more simplified in its exercise. that's all i can tell you. we are going to be monitoring very closely the use of this european arrest warrant, which i believe is one of the best tools we have at present in the context of judicial cooperation in criminal matters, and which obviously needs to be improved a great deal.
member of the commission. − mr president, on this issue i had exhaustive discussions with my colleagues on the authorisation of the use of amt substances as a decontamination measure to clean the surface of poultry carcases, during the college meeting of 28 may. as you know, the possibility of removing surface contamination with substances other than potable water was approved by council and parliament in 2004 in the hygiene regulations. in order to approve substances for use in decontamination of any meat, the applicable law requires a positive, evidence-based finding in comitology, indicating that the use of the substances does not pose risks to health or the environment. let me remind you that there was a long-standing request by the usa for approval of four amt substances for use in decontamination of poultry carcases. against this background, we have requested various scientific opinions which have assessed the risk of the use of the four amt substances from the point of view of health, environment and anti-microbial resistance. on the basis of the outcome of the various scientific opinions, we decided to present a proposal. the scientific opinions allow us to proceed with a proposal for authorisation, but not at any price. pursuant to the scientific opinions, a number of risk-management conditions had to be formulated. in proposing this text, my bottom line is very clear: no matter which commercial partner is at stake, no international commitment can be allowed to undermine the principles of food safety and the health of eu consumers. hence the need to ensure that any use of such substances would not replace the obligation to comply with the hygiene conditions along the food chain as set by community legislation, and that such use would not make up for prior poor hygiene conditions. in fact, in its opinion, efsa has indicated that amt could be considered as a useful tool to complement the hygiene practices already implemented in the european union. this is why i have imposed strict, yet proportional conditions. under these conditions, we can assure a proposal which is defensible from the point of view of public health and safety. the conditions that we propose are the following. first, one single substance is applied. time of exposure and concentration of the substances are defined. the poultry carcases are rinsed with potable water. no residue is left on the final product after the use of the substance. the efficacy of the rinsing is monitored to ensure the absence of residues. by setting these conditions, we ensure that the use of amt substances will not make up for poor hygiene conditions, and that no residues are left in the end product. i would also like to stress that the use of amt only reduces the number of bacteria and does not replace good hygiene practices as a core requirement, equally applicable in third countries as in europe and applicable from the flocks to the processing of poultry carcases. we will maintain a holistic approach to the reduction of salmonella at all stages of the production chain: feed, farms and slaughterhouses. moreover, the proposal provides for appropriate labelling. as with other approved substances such as additives, the consumer has the right to be informed. thus we suggest two alternative descriptions. appropriate environmental medication measures on waste water effluent quality standards, as proposed by dg environment. these consist of conditions for collecting and treatment of wastewater in slaughterhouses. last but not least, the proposal foresees a review within two years of the date of application of the authorisation, allowing further collection of data from food business operators regarding the use of the substances so that scientific questions on antimicrobial resistance can be addressed. this review will place the burden of proof on the food operators rather than on the commission’s scientific bodies. that said, when the proposal was presented to the standing committee of the food chain and animal health on 2 june, 26 member states expressed a negative opinion and one abstained. the commission will now transmit the proposal to the council of ministers to decide. you will ask why the commission went ahead with this proposal despite the eu domestic opposition to it. firstly, because the legislative framework foresees the possibility of approving such substances. secondly, because there has been a request for approval which could not be left unanswered, considering also our international commitments. finally, because there are scientific opinions which indicated that we could proceed with the authorisation provided it is flanked by a number of strict conditions, as we did. it was, therefore, for the commission to stand up to its institutional responsibilities and make the proposal. what happens next is part of the decision-making process. in this sense, i have taken good note of your strongly held position. the council will now be asked to pronounce on the text. as you know, if a qualified majority of member states is against this proposal, it will not be adopted, so we will see the end result under the french presidency.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr sturdy, for his excellent report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ferreira, for his excellent report. i do not understand the persistence with which the commission put these proposals on the table on 28 may. it is clear that the pressure from the united states must have been enormous. that's an economic pressure. the united states is losing markets here in the european union and perhaps also in the new countries that have joined since 2004. what do i find in all the studies? that the united states' approach to using antimicrobials is not really efficient. there, the number of infections with salmonella is decreasing, but not with campylobacter. our approach is very effective. we have a farm-to-fork approach, a farm-to-the-table approach to the consumer. we have put in place strong food safety legislation since the commission's white paper in 2000. i don't want it to be hollowed out now. the farmers do not want that, because they have invested in that approach. they do not want to be unfairly competed with by their competitors from other parts of the world. and they're not alone, they're supported by the consumer movement, they're supported by the environmental movement. so i would ask you, commissioner, to think about it for a moment. withdraw this proposal, you have no support in the council, you have no support in this parliament.
mr president, commissioner, this decision to lift the veto against all or almost all of the chlorinated chickens imported into the union is a real case study of what the commission, which is supposed to protect the general and supreme interest of the citizens of europe, can no longer do and must no longer do. as with all food sectors, poultry producers, and chicken producers in particular, have made tremendous efforts in recent decades. they have invested heavily to meet standards and must comply with no less than 70 european regulations, directives and other decisions. the sector is also subject to fierce competition, not only from europe but also, and especially, from brazil and the united states. we must also remember, and this has not yet been mentioned, the outbreak of avian influenza on european soil - that was only three years ago - with a drop of more than 20% in the consumption of poultry meat. so why is the sector now subjected to such a distortion of competition with american farmers who are not subjected to the same health and safety constraints? this brief overview is to highlight the main points. it is not a question of the environment and health, as has been said and heard. i look forward to more details and further studies on this subject. our refusal, madam commissioner, is essentially an industrial, cultural and, in the end, a political choice. it's cultural. europeans have the right to choose their diet freely; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. industrial then. i have already mentioned the production method, the standards and the high standards that are respected in our country. a good business deal must also be fair. the commission has no chance of convincing us that the import of 300 000 tonnes of chlorinated chicken without any counterpart is good news for the european poultry sector. political at last. i come to the point, because it is first and foremost a question of confidence, of confidence on the part of farmers, of confidence on the part of consumers. can the commission really today, in the context we are experiencing and going through, ignore - and i conclude, mr president - the opinion of the council, parliament, the players on the ground and a good part of your own members? i think asking the question is answering it.
on behalf of the pse group. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr ferrari, on behalf of my group, for his excellent and effective cooperation, including with my colleague, mr ayala sender, who was unable to be here this evening. i would like to thank you in particular for bringing the commission and the council together and for ensuring that we can also adopt a whole series of amendments from parliament which improve the text at first reading. it is an important dossier which may not make the front pages of the newspapers, because it is very technical, but it will help to avoid the loss of many lives, with as many family tragedies as a result. last year, as many as 43 000 people died on european roads and, as the commissioner has already said, 8 000 of them were pedestrians, weak road users. we all know that to avoid this, a combination of measures is needed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised. in the event of an accident, the way the vehicles are constructed can make a big difference. it is about the bumpers, the whole construction of the front of the cars, the hood, etc. this regulation will require manufacturers to meet stricter standards and to prove this through various crash tests. the main novelty of the proposal is that, in addition to the choice of materials and the relevant regulations, active safety is also being worked on, namely by making brake assist mandatory from next year. another important development. what is essential for our group is that this should also apply to vans, that it should be introduced in stages. we think this is a good deal. it is not the end yet, we expect in the coming years to see even more regulations that will benefit the safety of the people and you can count on our support for that too.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, this may be a very technical point, but it is a very important point. it really puts the union on the map. it shows that the union is really important. i think it is a very good thing that the 2005 directive on frontal protection and the 2003 directive on the protection of vulnerable road users are merged into one regulation. i do not understand the comment made by mr erik meijer of the european united left in that sense. i have to say that i am speaking here in this debate because i feel closely involved in this subject, because i was rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment in 2003 on the 2003 directive; mr vermeer was the rapporteur at the time. i am very pleased with the report and with the proposals made by mr ferrari. i am also particularly pleased that people are opting for active systems, that they are opting for abs. i support mr el khadraoui's remark that this should also apply to vans. let us be honest, this legislation will ensure that there are far fewer tragedies in many european families.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank him for his work in this area. i must say to my spanish colleagues who are very vigilant and sometimes even aggressive in claiming that i am telling untruths that they are really playing ostrich politics. i don't just get my information from anywhere. i am getting my information from answers to parliamentary questions, to a question from a colleague who has answered the commission. i would like to say to those spanish colleagues that the commission has sent a reasoned opinion to spain because there is something going on in all the ports in spain in relation to fraud. i've been to las palmas. the commission itself told me that there has been an increase in the number of inspectors from two to seven, which it still considers insufficient at the moment. sources tell me that the inspections are only done on weekdays between 8 and 3 p.m. i wish to investigate this further and i will take further parliamentary initiatives to find out how the fight against fraud is going throughout europe and certainly in spain.
the european mandarins, mr president, are behaving more and more like a kind of political autistic, completely cut off from the real world, from the citizens whom they claim to serve. now they say that little ireland has no right to stand in the way of a european treaty which may soon be adopted by 26 of the 27 member states. what arrogance! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. everyone knows that the lisbon monster, like a frankenstein monster born of a stillborn european constitution, would be voted down en masse by the voters of almost all the other member states, if those voters were given the chance. in the name of democracy, a democratic election result is being shunned and ignored. we are well on our way to the totalitarian euro-nazi state.
i voted in favour of the weber report, but i must say that i was somewhat reluctant. the left and the far left have been shouting murder and arson against the directive. they have presented it as if the directive were a gross violation of the human rights of illegal immigrants, when in fact the opposite is true. for example, for the first time, the regularisation of illegal immigrants is being put forward by a european directive as an acceptable policy option. the member states are also obliged to provide free legal aid to illegal immigrants who request it. it is unacceptable to derive rights from a situation of illegality. many of the elements of the directive are, moreover, purely optional. that said, the directive allows a number of member states to extend the period of detention of illegals in the context of their expulsion. the ban on refusing entry to the rest of europe for five years after a deportation is also positive. the problem of immigration, however, requires much more far-reaching measures than those supported in this report, but this is a step in the right direction.
mr president, let us look at the figures in a calm manner. in about a century, the world's population has increased about sevenfold, from 1 billion to 7 billion people on earth. this population explosion cannot be allowed to remain without consequences for a prosperous european continent which is also facing a large demographic deficit. the immigration problems we face today are particularly serious, but they are manageable now compared to what we will face in the coming decades. in this respect, the measures provided for in this alleged return directive are in fact futile and certainly inadequate. it will take a lot more than a procession of echternach half-hearted measures to stem the flow of illegal electricity. but because a small signal for a return policy for illegal immigrants is actually better than nothing at all, i voted without enthusiasm for the weber report.
in writing. not that i do not think that the text is insufficient on certain points, notably concerning children in detention and health, but after three years of negotiations with the council, this compromise, wrested from some member states, imposes rules on those that do not have them and, crucially, does not prevent any other member state from maintaining or even going further in more flexible legislation. and i cannot stand the witch-trial that some are bringing today against those who try to label immigration in europe. no, europe is not a fortress; every year, nearly two million immigrants join us legally. no, the directive does not impose a detention rule of 18 months: the principle is a maximum of 6 months, with very strict exceptions, where, it should be remembered, 9 countries have an unlimited period of detention! in belgium, for example, the average detention period is 22 days. the 'no' today is an easy and media-oriented posture, and in this case i am convinced that it would not help those who are first concerned: the migrants, who are being helped and sometimes reasoned with!
in writing. - the far too long term of imprisonment is one of the main reasons. the possibility of incarcerating adults and even children for as long as 18 months is going too far. especially since they are also detained if their country of origin does not cooperate by providing the correct documents. except for their own fault, they often cannot return. the fact that illegal residents can be sent back to the country through which they travelled is also not a solution. an entry ban of up to five years is contrary to the idea that people in europe should be protected when they need it. in addition, this measure will give rise to illegal trafficking and human smuggling. the union urgently needs agreements on who can enter, but is now concentrating on agreements on expulsion. the proposal is therefore one-sided and highly unbalanced. such agreements are only meaningful if they provide legal protection to people without valid documents. unfortunately, this compromise does not do that enough. i am not doing the european immigration policy a favour by agreeing to this.
the chairman of the council. − in my opening speech i already mentioned the finding of the competent authorities that the reasons for higher oil prices are structural. that's an important finding. the impact of speculation was mentioned several times in this debate. i do not wish to deny or minimize it, but i would stress that speculation does not in itself lead to higher energy prices unless structural reasons are given for it. and they're yours. they require a longer-term approach. the era of cheap energy, at least fossil energy, is probably over for a while, probably for a long time. and this requires the european union to take the long-term action i have already mentioned, which is essentially two-pronged. first, to increase energy efficiency and thereby reduce our consumption, among other things. and thereby reduce europe's and the european economy's dependence on imported fossil energy. and secondly, diversification, especially the focus on renewable energy sources. and here i agree with mr papadimoulis that more investment is needed in renewable energy, but more investment is being driven by higher fossil fuel energy prices. if it's cheap again, if we make it cheap with these and other unilateral measures, we're going to reduce the incentive to finance, to invest in renewables. while there is a broad consensus on the need for long-term action, we must of course not lose sight of the short-term problems we face. they were mentioned, i would emphasize them again here. the high energy prices are a particular problem for the poorer sections of our union, they are a particular problem for fishermen, which will be discussed in the next item on the agenda, they are a particular problem for transport operators. of course, it makes sense to study and reflect and take appropriate action. of course, we do not exclude the audit of taxation in the european union. i can say that the council expects to receive proposals from the european commission on this issue, on the taxation of energy, shortly. let me end with this thought. i think that this debate is taking place at a very opportune time, the day before the european council, where one of the main points of discussion will be the question of high oil prices.
member of the commission. − madam president, it has been a fascinating debate and i am very sorry that the time has passed so quickly. as my job requires, i have been to the places where oil is being produced: the caspian sea, the barents sea, saudi arabia. i think one mistake we make is thinking that it is easy to produce. it costs billions, and in very difficult environments. costs overrun, there is local damage to the environment and people are unhappy about a lot of projects. so it is very clear that, if we speak about oil issues, we should not be looking for those responsible but should try to find the appropriate responses in the european union. if we believe that this same approach would help everybody, we should follow it. there are no magical measures. energy efficiency is the number one measure. without this, the world will have much higher prices. it is very clear. (interjections from the floor)well, we are doing quite a lot. renewable energy and also alternative energy sources like nuclear are important also to alleviate the problem. new technology investment is needed, and for the sectors it is important to address structural measures, not just subsidies: subsidy is taking from one pocket to put into another pocket. for example, regarding tonight’s fisheries debate, i would ask why fishermen cannot pass increased fuel prices on to the price of fish, because that is the basic question: what happens, what prevents it? this means that we should address sectoral measures. on a global level i believe that it is very clear what we are trying to do, to try to remove the opec policy of capping supplies to the market, of not allowing, in many cases, western companies to come with technology and knowledge to produce oil and thus create better supply. for developed nations we should lead the way in energy efficiency, and my proposal for international partnership has been adopted by the g8. but, as everybody expected oil prices to come down to usd 9 per barrel, the world was late, and now we know that we should follow this policy. concerning consumer protection, i believe that the commission has always been very consistent on this. i have a lot of infringement cases where countries have not even informed the commission, as is their duty, about public service obligations, meaning that legal documents adopted after the commission proposal have all the necessary elements in them, and they should be implemented. i believe that the commission’s response and the council’s response is measured and right. each place in the market has its role. i know that nobody likes to defend speculators, but what is the future market’s role? it indicates where the price could go and allows investments to be made. well, i could say, ‘let’s tax everybody higher’ – we can increase tax to 100% for everybody, but it will mean that we lose the incentive to invest. let us instead make the incentive to invest, let us allow positive ways to investment to be made. so that is what we need. (interjections from the floor) whether it is the companies of saudi arabia, saudi aramco, that we should tax, or gazprom, we cannot tax them because they have national legislation on taxation. concerning european companies, we do not have any company nowadays that has a huge windfall profit because of oil and gas. (interjections from the floor) they also needed to invest in other projects as well, and if you know these companies, you should indicate them. if you know these companies that have such a beautiful life... (interjections from the floor)e.on does not work in oil. eni works in oil but invests billions in projects, for example for south stream, for the projects in kashagan – they invest billions – and libya. each company has a role in the market. madam president, this is a fantastic debate. i am glad that we will have the possibility to come back to this debate, because there are no simple answers. but i believe our proposal is measured and it is the right one.
in writing. the high oil price hurts us all, but certainly the most vulnerable low-income groups are hit hard. the european summit tomorrow must send a strong signal that action for the weakest in society is indeed justified and necessary. a reduction in vat or excise duty is not immediately appropriate, which is understandable, because it may encourage oil producers to charge even higher prices. but maybe there's another way. perhaps there should be a shift in taxes, in particular air tickets becoming a little more expensive (from autumn, for example) through a levy, and the proceeds of this being used to reduce the fuel bill for the low and middle income groups. the surplus can be used to provide premiums for insulating houses. that's the cheapest and most efficient way to do it. investing in renewable energy and energy saving is the task, especially in the medium term. but in the meantime, we must find solutions for those who are in difficulty. europe must not remain deaf to that side.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr aylward, on the work he has done on this report. the aim of this report is to revive the sheep and goat sectors in europe. these sectors are in fact threatened because, for several years, their production volume has been steadily decreasing. producers prefer to switch to other types of production because prices have fallen sharply and no longer guarantee them a sufficient income. on the other hand, european consumers, especially young people, are losing interest in these products. we must revive these sectors because meat, milk and cheese come from our land and we must promote them. the maintenance of these sectors is essential for several reasons. firstly, the milk sector, like the meat sector, is a guarantee of tradition and know-how which we must continue to make known to consumers. secondly, these two sectors also provide jobs in the production, processing and sale of these products. it should also be borne in mind that sheep and goat farms are often located in remote, mountainous or island areas. i can speak about this because i was born in sardinia and it is a region i know very well and where the possibilities for conversion are very limited. sheep and goats also play a beneficial role in the preservation of the environment. that is why we must ensure that these farms are maintained and that the market is revived.
in writing. - i fully support this report. every year, a huge amount of dangerous goods, such as chlorine and petrol, are transported inland in the european union. the commission has not yet drawn up any rules on this subject, although there is legislation on the transport of dangerous goods by road and rail. legislation on the transport of dangerous goods by ship is badly needed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's ships is not compromised. many of these transport operations cross borders. moreover, european rules also benefit entrepreneurs who now have to comply with different national requirements in different member states. inland waterway transport also reduces greenhouse gas emissions. it is therefore very important to harmonize the requirements for the different modes of transport. this makes it more attractive to combine several modes of transport. for example, by taking part of the journey by rail and then transporting the cargo by ship. that's not only efficient, but above all, it's sustainable. i hope therefore that transport companies will actually choose to combine different modes of transport more often.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: - madam president, in general i am far from satisfied with the draft budget as regards heading 4. firstly, i note once again the lack of funds allocated to this heading. this is in total contradiction to the union's stated ambitions to play a global player role. not only is heading 4 increasing by only 1.8% compared to the 2008 budget, but this increase is lower than the average increase in the budget of 3.1%. the share of external relations and development is therefore said to be decreasing in the preliminary draft budget. secondly, i reject the approach taken by the commission, which already proposes to use the flexibility instrument and emergency aid for expenditure which is in fact foreseeable and scheduled. the middle east, kosovo, food aid and macro-financial assistance are clearly undervalued. take palestine as an example. the budgetary authority proposes this year 171 million in commitment appropriations and 100 million in payment appropriations. in 2007, we spent half a billion dollars on the occupied territories. and today, in july 2008, we are already at 365 million euros. what are we going to do next year? to draw on the flexibility instrument? cutting an already weak margin? third, i am concerned about the looming food crisis and the effects of climate change. if there is a priority for the union, it is this! however, in the 2009 apb, the appropriations allocated to food aid only increase by eur 6.8 million, or 3%, whereas the commission requested the transfer of an additional eur 60 million at the end of april 2008 and has just received a further request of eur 40 million; it's not serious. i welcome the launch of a global climate change alliance and an energy efficiency and renewable energy fund, but we need to increase funding for these initiatives in the 2009 budget in addition to the development commitments. finally, as regards the council, i am aware of the importance of the neighbourhood policy and our cooperation with the mediterranean countries, but i refuse, in the present state of financing under heading 4, to support any additional costs which the union for the mediterranean would entail. the european union's foreign and development policy is judged by these long-term commitments in areas where needs are felt. in the absence of sufficient resources, the strategy of budgetary tinkering which has been chosen under heading 4 will give a very bad picture.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, i was in cannes this morning when the informal council on justice and foreign affairs was meeting and i had the opportunity to speak with mr marroni. we clearly disagreed, but that is not the subject of my speech. the purpose of my intervention is to react to the assertions of certain italian colleagues who say that this case concerns only italy and no one else and that the italian government is being tried in a bad way. that's not true. it is clear from the conversation with mr marroni that among the people who are covered by the scheme implemented are community nationals who must benefit from freedom of movement; that's the first element. the second element is that the system that has been put in place, even though it has the power to suspend the application of certain italian laws, cannot derogate from european law and european directives. this is expressly provided for in italian law and that is why i said to mr marroni: 'mr minister, would you accept that a delegation from the european parliament should go to italy to take a calm look at the situation, meet all the parties and come and report to the european parliament?' he didn't object and he agreed. which means that trying to validate the myth that this is just an italian case, excuse me, is a little short. if everything is fine, what are you afraid of? (applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur has in fact already said what this report is about: the european parliament must become, even more than it is today, a sort of representative of the eurocratic unity-mindedness. so let us get rid of the little bit of freedom that the smaller groups have. the european parliament is no longer a representative of the political diversity of our peoples, but a servant of the mandarin of europe. what an undemocratic farce it is that your europe is becoming! the famous amendment no 6 on parliamentary questions is another abridgement of our rights. we also read that these rules are being introduced because the european commission - i quote - has 'complained loudly about the number of these questions and the administrative burden that their answering causes for its departments'. i think, however, that it is rather members of parliament who should complain loudly about the unfortunate way in which many european commissioners have barely answered our written questions, that is, have not answered the question in full and have sometimes refused to give us correct information. we should rather have a procedure for sanctioning commissioners than making it difficult for members of parliament to do the work for which they are paid.
we all agree that the situation in the fourth least developed country in the world remains dramatic, despite some encouraging signs that have emerged since the country's reconstruction began. of course, the problems are not only of a military-strategic nature, but a total victory over the taliban is of course the sine qua non for the construction of a viable state with an independent judiciary and critical media. as regards the latter, i therefore welcome the fact that this report points out that the afghan constitution still does not guarantee freedom of religion, because disloyalty to islam remains a criminal offence. the western-backed regime must therefore also make efforts. what i do not like about this report is that a victory over the taliban requires a strategy vis-à-vis pakistan, whose territory remains a safe haven for terrorists and whose logistical support for these terrorists is well known, as was shown once again yesterday by the attack on the indian embassy in kabul. a policy on afghanistan must therefore be an integrated policy for the whole region. if not, it's doomed to fail.
is this a perfect agreement? no, i'm not going. is this a step in the right direction? i'm sure you do. and thank the negotiators for that. we want the aviation industry to contribute to achieving our ambitious climate targets. the ets will encourage airlines to organise themselves better and to use more fuel-efficient and new aircraft to avoid additional costs. the project is not, of course, on its own. we must see this in conjunction with a number of other measures, such as the proposals launched last month to organise european airspace more efficiently and many others. finally, i would say that it is self-evident that we should now also make efforts to involve third countries and introduce a similar system, so that we will have a global emissions trading system for aviation. only then will we really achieve results.
mr. president, there's a problem with your bulletin board. we shall only get a zero in the result of the vote. so we cannot see how many people voted for or against.
the corbett report introduces a number of measures that have nothing to do with this under the guise of reforms to make parliament more efficient. on the contrary, these are amendments to the rules of procedure which merely restrict the normal work of parliament. the most striking example is the amendment of rule 110 (4) which limits the number of ordinary written questions to three per month. in his explanatory statement, the rapporteur claims that this restriction is to prevent the alleged abuse of the right to ask parliamentary questions. the question of the future of the community is a question of the future of the community. to suggest that this could lead to abuse is in fact an insult to any member of parliament who takes his job seriously. this is a typical example of socialist manipulation, and it is unworthy of this parliament and any parliament!
this parliament is really doing everything it can to strengthen the image of the eurocracy as a kind of totalitarian doctrine that no longer tolerates opposition. this time it is about drastically restricting the right of members of parliament to put questions to the european commission. the commission, which is a giant with tens of thousands of officials who meddle in everything and everything, and especially in too much, would seem to complain loudly about the workload involved in parliamentary questions. for god's sake, what arrogance on the part of an institution like the commission to show its clear contempt for any form of democratic control by replying to parliamentary questions with little, usually completely inadequate and always off the mark. it is a shame that parliament is being fed to the potentates of the eurocracy!
in writing. with today's adoption of a directive to include air traffic in the european emissions trading scheme, the european union is making further progress in the fight against climate change. the agreement between the european parliament and the council will allow for a gradual and real reduction of greenhouse gases from 2012 onwards for all flights taking off and landing on european soil. i particularly welcome the adoption of two concrete measures which underline that europe is often, and fortunately still, a particularly balanced legislature which takes account of the interests of the 'small' ones: passenger planes, research planes and small airlines will be able to continue flying without worrying about the binding provisions of the directive; the revenue generated by the auctioning of the 15% of co2 emission allowances will go to research and development in the aeronautics sector. because it is clear that if the eu is to be innovative, engineers will also have to be very resourceful in reducing air pollution, while traffic is growing by 5% a year.
in writing. − if the eu is to meet its climate targets of reducing co2 emissions by 20% by 2020, the aviation sector must also be included in an emissions trading system for greenhouse gas emissions. aviation emissions have increased by almost 90 percent in the past year. at the same time, air transport escapes the payment of excise duty on kerosene and vat on air tickets. legislative action is therefore necessary. the report calls for the trading system to be introduced from 2011 for all flights entering european airspace. from 2012, the sector should be allowed to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by more than 1,5% per year. the proposed level of free auction rights is far too high. i think the airline industry should at least start by auctioning off 25%. in the end, the goal is not trade itself but reducing emissions. parliament also expressed its views on the use to which the proceeds of the auction should be put: it wants to use the money to reduce the burden on environmentally friendly modes of transport and to invest in research into technology for less polluting aircraft. the compromise we are about to reach is far from ideal, but it is a step forward which enables us greens to support the agreement reached.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, our aim must be to establish non-discriminatory rules for determining the conditions of access to transmission networks, gas liquefaction plants and gas storage facilities. the regulation should therefore aim to make the relationship between undertakings more transparent by harmonizing tariffs, the methods of calculating these tariffs and the management of gas transport capacity. in addition, all network operators will have to be grouped into a european network capable of ensuring investments to maintain optimal gas transport across europe. the challenges of this new european legislation are fundamental for citizens, at a time when we are experiencing a vertiginous increase in energy prices. as shadow rapporteur, i have mainly focused on consumer rights. competition must be able to play a real role in the interests of consumers; market regulation and price control measures, especially for the most vulnerable.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and congratulate him on the agreement reached with the commission and the council. it is a matter of simplifying legislation in a great many areas. but it's much more than that. i would like to join my colleagues who have spoken about the importance of transparency in air fares. that's a big step forward. it has also always been an important demand on the part of parliament. we are not against low prices, but the consumer must have a clear idea in advance of the cost of an air ticket, including all the costs involved, in all transparency. the same applies to all types of additional services or insurance which must be explicitly requested by the customer. i therefore assume, mr degutis, that your report will have the support of this parliament tomorrow.
i would like to begin by thanking mr rack for the good cooperation. i think we've accomplished a lot together. he knows that here and there we wanted to be more ambitious and also more specific in the list of what the european union's contribution should be. i understand that some of his own group do not agree with that. that being said, this report contains many good elements and is therefore fully supported by our group. first, it recognises that cities across europe face the same challenges. congestion is everywhere, everywhere, and that is a problem that leads to a lot of stress and a loss of time. there's been accidents. i think that half the accidents in the european union happen in cities. we all want to meet the ambitious climate targets we have set ourselves. most cities also have difficulties in financing their infrastructure and in all these matters the european union can play a positive supporting role, although - and i am happy to admit this - the situation differs from city to city. but we can learn from each other, and that is why i think the idea of a kind of observatory or platform for urban mobility should be developed, within which the exchange of good ideas can take place. cities should also be encouraged, or even obliged, to put mobility plans on paper, to bring together all kinds of stakeholders and to reach a common vision and good agreements. we believe that the european union should take the lead in terms of harmonisation, standardisation, interoperability and research and development in order to increase the chances of success of new projects, including in the field of public transport, and to facilitate the spread of sustainable solutions throughout europe. in conclusion, commissioner, i should like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we are counting on you to come up with a plan of action as soon as possible, which is as concrete as possible and which clearly defines the division of responsibilities between the various levels of policy, but which also includes a major role for the european union.
i abstained on the bozkurt report, although in principle i am not opposed to a limited form of coordination of the various social security systems between the member states of the european union, especially when this benefits european citizens residing in member states other than their own. i would like to warn again against the harmonization, or even worse, the uniformity, of the various social security systems in the various member states. as a fleming, i have the privilege of witnessing how a uniform belgian social security system for only two peoples, flemings and walloons, is totally unworkable and leads to great abuses. so let each member state, for god's sake, organise its own social security and also finance it itself, otherwise there will be a worse, more expensive and less efficient system with great abuses and ultimately this will lead to less solidarity, instead of more solidarity between the peoples of europe.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. yesterday it was decided that we as members of parliament can hardly ask parliamentary questions, including a system of self-censorship by the president of this parliament. today it is made more difficult to form political groups, and the rapporteur has emphatically, and to some extent honestly, acknowledged that this measure is intended primarily to strike at the right wing of this parliament which is critical of the euro. that's the end of the line. the euro-critical voice in this parliament, especially on the right, must be silenced. the euro-critical voice in referendums such as those in ireland, the netherlands and france is, as we are used to, simply ignored as if it did not exist. this is a kind of mugabe democracy in eurovision. that is a fine democracy!
the corbett report has only one aim, and that is to silence the right-wing national forces in the european parliament. the chairman of mr corbett's group is not making a secret of this. when the its group was set up in january 2007, he openly stated that the rules of procedure would be specifically amended to make it impossible for a right-wing group to be formed in the future. there is no doubt that other groups will suffer collateral damage, but mr corbett is not aware of that. the proposal is likely to be met with a eurosceptic group. the socialists in this parliament cannot seem to accept that all political groups should have the same resources and the same political rights. this mugabe philosophy is an integral part of the democratic deficit in europe, just as the democratic judgment of the electorate is being ignored in france, the netherlands and ireland. rest assured, mr president, that we will make this a matter of election in flanders next year.
as chairman of the delegation for relations with china, i would like to say that i agree with the commissioner when she says that we have strategic relations with the chinese and that they are also important for both of us. what we are trying to achieve are economic relations, of course, but more than that. i think we should emphasize that every time. i would also like to mention two things that are important to me: the individual human rights and freedom of expression. these are things which we bring up again every time we meet the delegation or members of the delegation, our chinese colleagues, and on which we differ, but on which we exchange ideas and try to exchange arguments. that is difficult, that is sometimes difficult, but that is something that this parliament will always have to continue to do. have we made any progress? i think too little and too slowly, but i feel that progress has been made. i would ask the european parliament not to forget to keep in touch with the chinese and to keep on having the debate every time, however difficult, how difficult and how frustrating it may be. i think, however, that this is the only way forward. because it is not in this hall that the fate of the chinese people is decided, it is in china that this is decided and by the chinese themselves. and we have to convince them, not ourselves.
commissioner rehn has just said that turkey has been given the prospect of full membership and that all other options seem to be out of the question. i would advise the commissioner to study the eurobarometer surveys carefully. there is no democratic support for turkey's accession. the gap between policy and the population is widening, widening and deepening. the negotiations were promised to be suspended if turkey did not manifestly comply with its obligations. that promise is not being kept. it has been promised that the negotiation process would be in step with the reform process in turkey. that is not true in practice either. the reform process in turkey has virtually come to a standstill, and yet two weeks ago it was decided to open just two more chapters in the negotiations. the european union will be destroyed by this gap between words and deeds unless there is a radical change in policy and attitude.
mr president, there is a famous painting by the belgian painter magritte showing a pipe with the caption: 'this is not a pipe'. even beautifully painted, in fact, this pipe will never allow smoking. it's a bit like the brok report. despite its title, it is not an enlargement strategy. because it is not about strategy or the essential questions that citizens ask themselves. why enlarge the european union? which way? what are the risks or the benefits? what brok is talking about is a method of consolidation, a defensive tactic. to put it simply, enlargement is a contract between europe and the candidate countries. the latter must meet the copenhagen criteria and europe must show its capacity to absorb. but here's where it gets tricky. europe is not ready for further enlargement, because it is trapped in a too narrow treaty of nice from which it cannot escape. the european institutional crisis should therefore result in a halt to enlargement. that is the opinion of many european citizens and, to a certain extent, it could also be my own. but beware, this slogan, all alone, without any ambitious strategy, is dangerous. it opens a royal road to all those who are prepared to reject a new treaty in the name of withdrawal, to reject turkey or even the balkan countries, to all the nationalists who are wary of foreigners who might one day disguise themselves as europeans. for these nationalists, this slogan is just a parade. in fact, they do not want either enlargement or deepening. we must prove to our citizens that the successive enlargements have been a chance for europe, and we must reiterate to them that multiculturalism is a wealth, that immigration is our democratic future. the institutional crisis must be overcome. it does not signal a victory for the eurosceptics or the left. but it reveals a lack of glory, a weakness that can afflict anyone. the brok report handles this impotence well, intelligently, and i commend it for that, but unfortunately it does not go any further.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i recently attended the berlin conference, where the central issue was the restoration of the rule of law in the occupied territories. what is true of a state in the making, palestine, is all the more true of israel. and the plight of the palestinian prisoners is a real paradigm in this regard. the fate of more than 8 500 palestinian prisoners is at stake, the reasons for and conditions of their detention. and i remind you that 48 elected members of the palestinian legislative council are in prison today. this is unacceptable. that the overwhelming majority of the detainees were transported to israeli prisons, which is contrary to the geneva convention, which prohibits the transfer of detainees from the occupied territories to the occupier; this is unacceptable. that the penal code used in the occupied territories applies only to palestinians and not to settlers. clearly, what is criminal for some is no longer criminal for others. this is unacceptable. that about 100 women are imprisoned and that pregnant and breastfeeding women are not receiving treatment for their condition; this is unacceptable. that 310 minors are held in the same conditions as adults, even though israel is a signatory to the convention on the rights of the child. and don't tell me what i've heard before: that at 15 years old, these arab children are already adults and capable of anything. whose fault is it, mr tannock, if not the occupation that robbed them of their childhood? and the list goes on: torture, ill-treatment, no rights of defence, no trial, and so on. these facts are documented by both israeli and international sources, i remind you. the european parliament cannot, of course, put an end to the conflict with a magic wand, but i can assure you that it will put human rights at the heart of the reassessment of israel's status, which will be discussed throughout the year. paragraph 2 of the agreement states clearly: 'the relations between the parties, as well as the content of the agreement itself, shall be based on respect for human rights and democratic principles, which guide their internal and international policies and constitute an essential element of this agreement.' of course, we have to exchange. we must negotiate, for example, the exchange and release of prisoners, such as gilad shalit on the one hand and salah hamouri on the other. and i certainly welcome the signing of the exchange agreement with hezbollah. but i would like to remind our israeli partners that human rights are non-negotiable for the european parliament. i am therefore pleased and grateful to you, mr minister for the council, and to the commissioner for your firm words, which confirm the idea that we are indeed, as a trio, one european union.
mr president, the extremely difficult question of maintaining our democratic values in the fight against terrorism is in fact the real content of our debate today. unfortunately, i do not have time to deal with all the points raised in the texts, even if they are deferred, submitted by our colleagues, and i will not repeat the comments of my colleague, mr mladenov, on the israeli supreme court. i shall nevertheless deal with the question of miners. yes, there are minors in prison, mostly teenagers, who are manipulated by hamas and sent to their deaths, armed with grenades or explosive belts. you speak of international law, my colleagues speak of international law. it also condemns, i believe, the recruitment of child soldiers. any society that puts a kid in jail is a failure. israel must meet this challenge in accordance with international law, but the real tragedy is that this entire generation in palestine is lost to peace. a word, barely a word, about gilad shalit. he is also a prisoner, i believe, of both israeli and french nationality. he deserves better than the guilty oblivion to which he is condemned by the variable geometry of indignation of some of my colleagues. nor is there any mention of the overall political context mentioned by the secretary of state and the commissioner. i conclude, mr president, on the very fragile but real truces that are taking place on several fronts. i would like to say that, more generally, i am against the obsession of some people to try to bring a democratic state to trial here at every sitting.
i would just like to say to mr tannock that this question was put not only by mrs morgantini but also by two vice-presidents of parliament from the ppe-de group, mr mcmillan-scott and mrs kratsa-tsagaropoulou, by mr bowis, mr kasoulides and myself. just to be clear, let me just get this straight. as a member of the parliament's delegation for relations with the palestinian authority, i have experienced firsthand on several occasions what it means to be unable to meet your democratically elected colleagues because they are being held in prison. what indeed to say of the many women and children who are scattered across various prisons outside the palestinian territories, making visits by lawyers and family virtually impossible. everyone has already mentioned the daily living conditions and the lack of medical care. how long will the international community and the european union tolerate this? i therefore urge the commission and the council to put an end to this unacceptable situation.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, minister, commissioner, it was with incredible violence and with a scandalous disregard for the most basic human rights that president mugabe seized power by taking hostage an already bloodless population. the socialists condemn such violence and do not recognize any legitimacy for the current government. but the first thing the european socialists have in mind is the zimbabwean people. the fao estimates that 5 million zimbabweans could be at risk of severe hunger by the beginning of 2009. it is also known that a third of the population of zimbabwe is already dependent on international aid. it is therefore absolutely essential that the european commission, the council, each member state and the international community as a whole exert maximum pressure on the zimbabwean authorities to allow full access for humanitarian aid and international aid to the most vulnerable populations. we cannot stress this enough, mugabe's current position is simply criminal. in the same spirit, if we are calling for the european union and the international community to take strong sanctions against zimbabwe, as you have mentioned, mr minister, we also insist that they do not harm the people but that they target the members of the regime responsible for the human rights abuses and the terror that is currently reigning in that country. of course, we must also encourage the european union and regional structures like sadc to take the lead with the elected parliament and civil society of zimbabwe in the democratic and rapid resolution of the current crisis. mr president, i would like to quickly bring up one last point concerning the 200,000 displaced zimbabweans. we call on the neighbouring south africa, and on president m'beki in particular, to show responsibility by not sending back zimbabwean refugees who have sought refuge in south africa.
the european union has been sanctioning the socialist dictator mugabe for some time, but these sanctions are not always applied in a consistent and unambiguous way. we have seen that the portuguese presidency of the european union apparently had no problem inviting mugabe to the euro-african summit. the european union should also have made a clear protest against mugabe's grotesque presence at the world food organisation summit in rome not so long ago. the ban on mugabe and indeed all the top figures of his regime must be strictly enforced and extended. we must at any rate consider extending sanctions against the mugabe regime in general. these sanctions must be firm and unambiguous, and we must also put pressure on the south african government, which has in fact merely bought time for the mugabe regime with its so-called silent diplomacy.
i should like to thank the commissioner for his answer. a year and a half ago, biofuels were a miracle cure in the fight against global warming. today, it is clear, they are being gradually vilified, and i note that the commission supports the course taken by the energy ministers over the weekend - even though it will probably deny it. the question i would like to ask - the commissioner has overwhelmed us with some figures - is whether the commission agrees with the world bank study which states that 75% of biofuels are responsible for 75% of the global increase in food prices. the fao is also taking the same line and the un special rapporteur, mr ziegler, calls the mass production of biofuels a crime against humanity. does mrs fischer agree with the world bank, the fao and the un?
the way in which this parliament has reacted in recent days to a perfectly reasonable decision by the italian government is symptomatic of the suffocating atmosphere of left-wing political correctness in this institution. i can assure you, however, that the vast majority of the people of the european countries think the exact opposite of what the majority in this parliament seems to be voting for. the fact that the italian government is setting up a fingerprinting system to provide a first step in tackling the enormous problems caused by the mass immigration of roma into the country is absolutely supported by a large majority of the people. the european interference in this matter is unacceptable. i am surprised that the european union itself does not open its luxury buildings to roma and its private schools to roma children. the much-vaunted so-called human rights seem to be confined to the privileged domains of the eurocracy.
one of the reasons why i voted against the brok report, watered down by amendments, is that it recommends a so-called communication policy which will in reality amount to more eu propaganda. it is symptomatic of what is fundamentally wrong with the european union. instead of taking account of the opinion of the electorate, the attempt is made to change the attitude of the electorate itself by means of propaganda. the irish referendum has shown once again that this kind of social engineering has the opposite effect. it is therefore better to stop doing that and to respect the opinions and aspirations of the europeans rather than doing the exact opposite.
in writing. the french presidency is focusing on the right priorities: but let me focus on one aspect that is less in the spotlight, but is extremely important for our youth and for the whole sporting sector in europe. the french presidency would like to adopt the so-called 6+5 principle in sport, i.e. a limitation on the number of foreign players. the objectives are fine: the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take account of the fact that the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we in parliament agree with that 100%. hence our support for the home grown measure, which pursues the same objectives, albeit more modestly. the question is whether the 6+5 principle is feasible in a european context. it is contrary to the free movement of workers and is applicable only if there is an exception to the european treaty. we're not even close. it is doubtful that the court of justice would ever accept such a thing, even with the new sport article in the lisbon treaty. we want to help parliament find a solution that will benefit european football. we're just asking for a solid solution that doesn't throw football into chaos. a bushman biscuit, no one needs that.
the regulation rightly states that for every person in possession of a visa, the vis should be systematically consulted for biometric checks. it is the best and safest way to verify the authenticity of a visa. it is therefore regrettable that parliament feels called upon to undermine the principle in effect by introducing here a list of situations in which it will be sufficient to check the identification sticker, and not to proceed to a check of the biometric data. it is therefore to be feared that the introduction of these lists will make biometric checks the exception rather than the rule. i also know that it is not possible to carry out biometric checks systematically in all circumstances, but it should be the rule. we cannot afford to be lax and unconcerned in the fight against illegal immigration and the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime.
mr president, this summer, on both sides, there was an attempt to force our hand, with two immediate consequences, apart from this tragic drama: firstly, the almost immediate signing of the missile shield by poland - even if it is directed at iran, that is a problem; secondly, the european union's commitment to finance the reconstruction of georgia, when we know very well that the external relations budget does not allow it, as you said, madam commissioner, and that it is dramatically underfunded and i support you: we will have to find other sources of funding, otherwise we will not be able to cope. so i think we must stop this escalation and my group and i are in favour of clear, even tough relations with russia, particularly on energy issues, on human rights, on international law, but not for a return to the cold war. i also warn against the hasty entry into nato and the european union of countries which do not yet have the necessary guarantees. and i invite the french presidency, which i congratulate for its swift action this summer, to look at the black sea union as it has done with the union for the mediterranean. finally, i say to my colleagues in the east, and especially in the baltic states, we are no longer in 1938, but in 2008 we will not allow history to stutter. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a member and chairman of the committee on civil liberties, i shall confine myself to the proposal for an anti-discrimination directive. i would like to begin by congratulating you, commissioner, on finally getting the commission to adopt a proposal for a directive aimed at combating discrimination on grounds of religion, belief, disability, age and sexual orientation. until recently, as you know, we were afraid - we were worried and we made it known - that you would limit yourself to a mini-directive, which would have only dealt with discrimination on the grounds of age and disability. i am not surprised to say that i regret that our parliament is only consulted on such a fundamental matter, but i felt that the presidency was open to proposals or suggestions from the european parliament. so we are going to get down to business, commissioner, and i personally see three aspects of the text that we are going to try to improve. first, an effort should be made to clarify certain concepts or the boundaries between certain concepts. i am referring in particular to the area of objectively justified differences in treatment. i am not disputing them, of course, but these objectively justified differences in treatment must not be allowed to turn into discrimination, either directly or indirectly. it happens fast. secondly, the directive must not be emptied of its substance by the untimely use of concepts such as public security or public order, as seems to me to be the case, for example, in a large country in the south of the european union which i will not mention. thirdly, we must make an effort to impose sanctions. when you write in article 4 'member states shall determine the system of penalties applicable to infringements of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this directive', commissioner, you are not going very far. in short, i hope that this directive, which is giving rise to so much hope, will not turn out to be a truly great mini-directive, generous in its principles but very vague in its provisions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what concerns me, ladies and gentlemen, is the systematic undermining of european social ambitions during the course of the parliamentary term. i think there are obvious political reasons for this. it is striking how the commission continues to emphasize that social policy must remain primarily a national matter. the social package, commissioner, contains very interesting working papers and communications, but only four legislative initiatives. welcome as you are, but it's a very meager harvest! as if guaranteeing social rights, creating a level playing field in social matters, were no longer a european task in a europe of 27. together with the etuc and the social organisations, we expect, in addition to this social package, at least strengthened legislation on posting, which safeguards social rights, better legislation to eliminate the gender pay gap, a framework law for the protection of social services and binding commitments to the fight against poverty. what we need is a real social pact with a coherent vision and a serious commitment to a social europe, to at least show the citizens that europe is more than just a market. i hope, mr bertrand, that we can count on the support of the french presidency in this struggle for the time being.
i am of course not opposed, mr president, as i suppose most people are, to improvements to the schengen visa information system, but what is presented in this report is really too absurd to be put into words. the visa system would be truly relaxed because there are waiting times at the borders! anyone who has travelled the world knows that waiting lists exist and that they are sometimes necessary. i wonder what kind of evaluation would be possible to make border guards decide when there is danger and when there is not. who knows where the terrorist and other dangers may come from? i also object to the fact that we are once again looking for facts. the europeanisation of our border controls has been carried out unplanned, unprepared and under pressure from ideological zealots who consider the safety of citizens to be secondary to the great ideal of the new european soviet union.
the rapporteur, mrs lambert, is certainly right when she says that the dublin objectives have not been achieved in any case in terms of asylum shopping. - that's right. - what? it is also right to say that the system inevitably places a disproportionate burden on the member states bordering the european union. that's right, too. so it is a good thing that we are calling for support for these countries. on the other hand, i do miss some important points in this report and i do not agree at all with most of the assumptions and objectives of the rapporteur. let me give you an example. the commission's evaluation already stated that the dublin system leads to the hiding of tens of thousands of asylum seekers, and yet the rapporteur is advocating against detention measures. it can't be more serious. the close cooperation between the european member states in the field of asylum can bear fruit, but this will require the overthrow of a whole series of politically correct dogmas which this report is full of.
mr president, it is impossible to sum up all the problems with the lambert report in one minute, so i will confine myself to a few elements. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of children. that sounds good, but in fact it is an open invitation to more identity fraud. the report also states that the definition of family member is too narrow, which again is an open invitation to more abuses. in africa, for example, almost everyone is related to everyone else, and if we have to take that into account, we better open all the gates immediately. the report also opposes access to the eurodac database for the police and judicial services of the member states because, i quote, 'this would increase the risk of stigmatising asylum seekers'. this is a ridiculous consideration, all the more so because eurodac could contain a wealth of information in the fight against illegal immigration, international crime and terrorism.
i have not voted against the kauffmann report, mr president, although i am not at all convinced that the europeanisation of our judiciary or the creation of a european public prosecutor's office is the only way to improve the functioning of the police and the judiciary and to improve the punishment of even crossborder crime. on the contrary. i do, however, support the need for very far-reaching and improved cooperation between all the sovereign european security services and in that sense i can largely approve a number of recommendations, improvements to the kauffmann report, improvements to the european judicial network. but this must not lead to a european judiciary that is alien to the world, overpaid and arrogant, as we have seen in recent months, with a spirit of interference that goes far beyond the necessary cooperation between sovereign member states. i therefore abstained on the final vote on the kaufmann report for that second reason.
in writing. for the first time in history, brussels wants to throw out the window what the french and dutch people rejected in a referendum in 2005 and the irish in june 2008: the creation of a single european prosecutor's office. the temptation is too great for our european sorcerer apprentices. at all costs, the objections, refusals and legitimate resistance of the peoples of europe must be overcome and ignored in order to forcefully bring all the questions of justice, security and immigration under the community umbrella. europe is wrong. the necessary cooperation between states in judicial, police or criminal matters must not be subject to a supranational legal order established in spite of all the existing disparities between the legal systems and traditions of the member states. we do not want this supranational legal order which would go against our own principles and values.
in writing. contrary to what it wants to show, europe has not made progress in the area of freedom, security and justice. on the contrary, the abolition of checks at national borders has, since the criminal schengen agreements came into force, led to an exponential increase in organized crime and trafficking of all kinds. the european union, a real witch's apprentice in security matters, with its methods which all too often prove dangerous for the security of states and their peoples, has imposed on us this space of insecurity and the absence of freedom and justice. the schengen borders code will be of no use because the very foundations of the schengen agreements are bad and should be rejected. common security will only exist if each state regains full sovereignty in the management of its borders and its migration policy. the paroxysm of aberration is definitely reached when it comes to transferring ever more responsibilities to this union which is already paralysed.
in writing. it is ironic that for the first time a european parliament report describes the mass arrivals of immigrants in the territory of a member state of the union as a 'burden'. would immigration no longer be an opportunity, an asset for all the peoples of europe? the absurdity of the obligation to take in asylum seekers and the absolute respect for the principle of non-refoulement are not in any way called into question. the only weaknesses of the dublin system for determining the member state responsible for examining an asylum application are highlighted. this is evident in view of the constant increase in migration flows to countries often located on the southern periphery of the union. this report once again proposes a wrong solution to the technical and human problems associated with the flood of migrants. it is not a common asylum system, which is necessarily ineffective in an ever-expanding territory and with permeable borders, that should be implemented. on the contrary, the member states must be left to decide for themselves on migration and the management of their borders.
in writing. − the dublin ii agreements are based on the political fiction that there is mutual trust between the 27 member states in dealing with asylum issues and that all member states assume their responsibilities in the same high-level way. i myself have investigated the reception of chechen refugees in poland because a number of chechen refugees were returned to poland from belgium on the basis of dublin. the protest was very large. hence the need for an independent investigation. the footage of it is on my website, by the way. as long as there is no adequate and consistent level of protection in all 27 member states, i believe that dublin ii is little more than a political fiction and creates a gross injustice. i have seen firsthand in poland that the principles of the dublin system are not a reality. the quality of reception, the reception of children and the failure to provide education, the hygienic conditions under which refugees must stay, the lack of health care: it is also a number of cases which vary considerably from one member state to another. the lambert report puts the finger on the sore spot, proceeds from a correct analysis and offers solutions in many areas. it deserves our full support.
in writing. the new telecom law we are discussing today has far-reaching implications for all of us as internet and telecom users. there will be better protection of our privacy on the internet. personal information stored on the computer or transmitted via the internet (including your surfing profile!) may not be used (abused) unless you have given your express prior consent. cooperation between the content industry (music and film in particular) and telecom operators is encouraged to tackle the problem of piracy (illegal downloading). it is important that consumers are well informed about what is and is not allowed on the net, but in no case should access to the internet be denied. phone numbers will be easier to take with you if you change operators. the transmission of a number may take up to 1 day, except in the case of measures to prevent malicious intent. i hope that we can reach an agreement on this quickly and that subscribers can benefit from these improvements as soon as possible.
i voted against the garcia pérez report, although i am convinced that men and women are naturally equal and that they should receive equal pay for equal work. we are still far too often forgetting that equality between men and women is one of the fundamental achievements of present-day europe, of the european world and of the western world, and that it is not shared at all in a number of other regions of the world. we must never forget that. but that is only one aspect of this report. the report also contains a whole host of other points with which i fundamentally disagree, such as support for the perpetual electoral quotas for women. as if women were an immature species that could not achieve positions on their own strength and with their own abilities. and the eternal support for abortion: i wonder what this will do in this report. for all these reasons and many others, i have voted against the garcia pérez report.
if i were to sum up, mr president, why i voted against the svensson report, i could simply say that i think it is utter nonsense, utter nonsense. it is yet another report in which this parliament, which is supposed to defend the freedom of european citizens, calls for restrictions on freedom and for censorship. several of the provisions in the svensson report, such as paragraph 14 on censorship, seem to come directly from fahrenheit 451, the book that outlines a world in which books are banned and critical thinking is suppressed. i am very critical of this european parliament anyway. but it must also be a little careful not to make a hopeless fool of itself and become a sort of clone of the supreme soviet.
i would like to congratulate mrs svensson. her report is one of the most inflammatory, interventionist and politically correct texts of the whole legislature. it seems as if she is convinced that advertising and marketing are one big conspiracy to give rise to discrimination on grounds of sex from the first years of the child's socialization, which reinforces the perpetuation of lifelong inequality between men and women. i 'm not making this up . the majority of this sentence is taken literally from recital n of the text. the report naturally calls for more regulation and for the creation of bodies specifically to monitor compliance with all these new rules. i'd almost say jobs for the boys if that expression wasn't so horribly gender insensitive. the highlight is paragraph 14 of the text which calls for the removal of so-called gender stereotyping messages from textbooks, toys, video games, the internet and advertising. censorship, that is. i don't know if the term textbooks also refers to literature, but if it does, then we can start right now burning the books of shakespeare on the street.
in writing. there are sometimes happy coincidences, even funny ones. we take the opportunity afforded by this annual report on equality between men and women and the fact that it coincides with the french presidency of the european union to highlight a marginal but distracting element which is, at worst, a lack of tact and, at best, a perfect application of the principle of equality between men and women consisting in no longer differentiating between them. a few days ago, on the occasion of the beginning of mr sarkozy's much-publicized presidency, gifts were given to members of the european parliament. among the gifts in the briefcase was a tie. of the 785 meps, nearly a third are women. did they not have the right, too, to a little personalized gift, or are we to conclude that women must also wear the tie? however, in the age of great speeches on the square and the role of women in political life, it seems that mufflery still often prevails over chivalry.
i would like to begin by expressing my concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia. i think it is rather cynical to refer repeatedly in a report on human rights to the necessary application of certain provisions of the lisbon treaty. that convention, as we all know, was rejected in a democratic referendum in ireland, and it was rejected only in ireland because in no other country do citizens have the human right to speak out democratically about this convention. the lisbon treaty was, moreover, only a preliminary draft of a european constitution which had already been pulverized in referendums in france and the netherlands. so let us start by respecting the human rights of our own voters and stop systematically referring to a treaty that was voted down and is legally dead. a second critical note. this report is full of good intentions, but the reality is quite different. we have just finished the olympic games in china, where all our european democrats have demonstrated extensively on the side of a communist regime, just as they did in 1936 in national socialist germany. in those circumstances, perhaps we should observe a few months of shameful silence, although i admit that the report as it stands can be called remarkably balanced by the standards of this house and rightly denounces a number of issues, such as the conditions in cuba and zimbabwe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, one other concern that is close to my heart. in our own european countries, and especially in my country, belgium, more and more mules are being installed to restrict free speech and even to impose prison sentences for offences of opinion, particularly on issues relating to immigration and islamization. i consider this a particularly worrying development and i think that in this respect we must also defend free speech in our own european member states with all our might, also in this parliament, when it comes to human rights. so three critical remarks on a report which is certainly not the worst that has ever been presented here and which we will support if unacceptable amendments are not adopted tomorrow.
on behalf of the pse group. i shall not mention the text which i was going to read to you here on behalf of my group because i believe that we are in the midst of a particularly important debate. the failure of this millennium development goal, this fifth objective, which is fundamental because it concerns women and their suffering in pregnancy, calls for abandoning the extremely hypocritical attitude and analysis we have here at european level, when we know, when we see and when we can testify to the situation in africa, on the ground, in the villages, in the countryside and in the bush. and what our colleague kaczmarek has just said has made me a little angry, which is why i have given up my paper. for here we are not talking about the claim that abortion is a miracle cure for all the problems of women who are about to give birth. no, i'm not going to. we are talking about devoting the necessary resources to ensuring that these women can have everything they need: education, proper family planning, contraception and, where necessary, voluntary termination of pregnancy under good conditions. but in this chamber it is extremely difficult to say clearly because some of us, in the name of a certain morality, sometimes even in the name of a certain obscurantism, continue to deny that we are taking real measures, effective measures, for the benefit of these women in the countries concerned.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is true that maternal mortality illustrates the most poignant inequality of women in the north and the south. it is clear that some colleagues in this hemisphere have still not understood this. mr casini, every year 50 million women become pregnant unwanted because they do not have access to contraceptives. 42 million of these women have unsafe abortions and 80,000 of them die. those are the hard facts. the vast majority of these women live in sub-saharan africa, so the west has absolutely no reason to lecture these women. that's a shame, because maternal deaths are perfectly preventable, if only women had access to health care and sexual and reproductive health. according to the world health organization, it takes 34 euros per person per year to provide basic health care. it is possible. if the european union, in addition to the commitment of the developing countries themselves, also spent 15% of development aid on health care, including sexual and reproductive health. but that's where the problem is. the member states' investments in health care have been declining steadily in recent years. family planning budgets have been cut almost in half since 1994. the european development fund also spends just 4% on health care, compared with 30% on infrastructure and budget support. it is therefore clearly time that we not only get words from the council and not only promises from the commission, but also clear projects to link, for example, budget support to clear results in the area of millennium development goal 5 and saving women's lives in africa.
author. - mr president, madam commissioner, you have already answered in part the question i was going to ask you, which concerns the problems encountered in the case of purchases. the procedures are long, complicated, expensive. the damage is all the more serious because it often affects the most disadvantaged among us. could we imagine, given the legal vacuum, that the european consumer centres would have the means to take these steps, perhaps collectively, but also individually, on behalf of the consumers who are suffering?
the rapporteur. - madam president, madam secretary of state - thank you for your apparent haste to get to this debate on time - commissioner dimas, colleagues, health and the environment do not always go hand in hand, especially at the beginning of the 21st century. citizens are exposed to pollution in various forms, often interrelated, whether they live in the city or in the countryside, on the sea or in the mountains. it is therefore no coincidence that, according to the latest figures provided by eurostat, six out of ten european citizens think it is very likely or relatively likely that environmental pollution is harmful to their health and also, importantly, that the european union is not doing enough in this area and that is the whole point of our debate this morning. i would first of all like to thank my colleagues and in particular the fictitious rapporteurs on this report, mrs ferreira, professor trakatelllis, mrs breyer, mrs belohorská and mrs de brún, for the excellent collaboration we have had since the beginning of work on this issue, and that goes back to 2003. it was in 2003 that the european commission launched the scale initiative, which focused on children's health, and then, of course, the following year, the launch of this action plan, which runs until 2010. we considered this initiative to be insufficient, since in february 2005 the parliament's plenary adopted a rather critical resolution, which i must say, based on a simple observation, that an action plan, in essence, cannot be set as the sole objective of more data, more research, even though these are essential, of course. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. three years later, where are we in reducing pollution-related disease? i think that the community level is not very far off, and i shall now turn to the mid-term evaluation itself and its context. the european union, it has been said, has had a number of successes in combating various forms of pollution. among others - it is impossible to list them all here - the new legislation on ambient air quality - which owes much to your energy, commissioner - the pesticides package, which is about to be completed, and then of course reach, with the control of more than 10 000 chemicals and the envisaged substitution for the most problematic of them. i should also like to mention, and this is important, the funding by the commission over the last three years of more than thirty-eight projects on the environment and health in the context of the sixth research framework programme, for a total amount estimated at more than eur 200 million. as for the rest, and in view of the difficulty of assessing this plan, which has a rather bad name, our assessment remains, i would say, mixed. the core of our draft resolution today, therefore, is the reinstatement of the precautionary principle, which is also dear to the secretary of state, i know. i sincerely believe, as she does, that this principle must be given life, given new life, a principle of action rather than a principle of abstention - i say it again and again - and its application also in community policies, as article 174 (2) of our treaty allows and as the constant case law of the court of justice states. on this point again, i think it is important to encourage the reversal of the burden of proof - that is what we are proposing in paragraph 13 of our resolution - for all product legislation, because it is normal, it is obvious that the burden of proving the safety of a marketed product lies with the producer and the importer. i would add that this is what most consumers wrongly believe. the second and not least concern, which is covered extensively in our report in paragraphs 23 to 25, is the issue of climate change. we have been working on this crucial issue in close collaboration with who experts. the phenomenon most often described by these experts is the increase in the intensity and frequency of heat waves. it is hard to forget that after the heat wave of the summer of 2003, more than 70 000 additional deaths were recorded in some ten european countries. the systematic introduction of preventive measures - reduction of exposure to heat, warning system, assistance, of course, to the elderly - seems to us indispensable. i would also like to point out that the rise in temperatures is also the appearance of certain viruses, chikungunya for example, in italy in 2007 - anything but an epiphenomenon, according to experts, but the precursor, perhaps, of many pandemics in europe. it is clear that this also requires a response that is up to the challenge and, at a minimum, regular coordination between the commission, the stockholm centre for disease prevention and control and the european capitals. i would like to conclude my speech on what constituted, in the health field, the soap opera, the saga of the summer of 2008, in any case in a whole series of countries - france, belgium, and not only - i want to talk about this avalanche of information, articles, research, mostly contradictory, on the proven or unproven dangers of the mobile phone on health, especially on that of the most vulnerable, especially children. and the very, perhaps overly media-savvy david servan-schreiber was not the first to sound the alarm. what we find in paragraphs 21 and 22 of our resolution is simple: this increase in studies tends to show a health impact of electromagnetic fields on human health, exposure thresholds which have not been changed, it should be remembered, since 1999 and which are therefore still the official standard of the european union and the lack of consensus among researchers on the health hazard or not of gsm. scientific uncertainty has its bright days ahead. there is a time when politics must decide and that is what we are doing in our resolution before you today.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to congratulate each and every one of us here on the quality of this debate. i think we are at the heart of the concerns of europeans, at the heart of the europe of the people. it's the most important thing. i thank each of my colleagues for the many comments that have been made and also for the proposals, most of which are very ambitious - i will not summarize them, they were made by the secretary of state and commissioner dimas. i should like to return very briefly to the question of electromagnetic fields. mrs kosciusko-morizet mentioned the interphone study, but we are at the heart of the problem: the study is not published in its full results precisely because, according to some, they are contradictory, whereas, for example, the experts working on this study in israel have just highlighted the link between exposure to gsm waves and the development of parotid cancer. so we're actually waiting for proven evidence to act. as i said earlier, when scientific uncertainty persists, politics must decide. i would like to conclude by recalling our amendment no 1 in plenary, which i ask you to support, an amendment which is proposed by most of the groups in this parliament. it is indeed a matter of confirming that when technologies evolve and change, and this is the case in this area, the exposure thresholds must also be changed, otherwise i would say that there is no consumer assistance at risk and i sincerely hope that the french presidency will support this proposal to amend the 1999 recommendation.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in the middle east. on the contrary, this parliament has always systematically taken sides with the palestinians and against the israelis. it is not enough for this parliament that tens of millions of euros of european taxpayers' money disappear every year into the bottomless, corrupt and anti-western pits of the palestinian territories. it is not obvious enough to this parliament that ngos which openly - i stress this - openly approve and condone acts of terrorism are being sponsored again with millions of european taxpayers' money. now this parliament is also literally calling in a resolution for the release of convicted terrorists. this attitude may well be politically correct. i think she's gonna break us all up again.
i also voted against the resolution on the palestinian prisoners in israel because it at least gives the impression - and i am speaking in a friendly manner - that we as a european parliament are not really serious about condemning terrorism. the resolution calls for the release of people who have engaged in terrorist activities. at least one of them is responsible for the deaths of several israeli civilians. the adoption of the resolution is therefore not good for the credibility of parliament, but much worse, it undermines the fight against terrorism in general.
mr president, i voted in the flautre report on amendments nos 4 and 5, which were not adopted and which concerned israel. i would like to explain this: these amendments did not concern sanctions against israel, they dealt - in particular amendment no 5 - with israel's violations of international law, which are well documented. i would like to say that i am against sanctions in general, whether they are against the palestinian people or against israel. what i regret, however, is that this amendment, which spoke of initiatives to be taken with regard to the state of israel, and not of sanctions, was not adopted. if we abandon the idea that we, the european union, must take initiatives to prevent human rights violations, we betray our democratic model. i would also like to say that in saying this we are not saying anything against the jewish people we love and we reject any anti-semitism. we are not saying anything against the state of israel, whose existence and security we want, but we are rebelling against those inside israel who undermine the democracy of that state, which is something very different. and we support all israeli ngos that work for human rights and international law.
i have already had the opportunity to point out in the debate yesterday that the flautre report on the european union's human rights policy is actually a fairly balanced and good document. but what i miss in the report is a clear reference to the problem and danger of islamization in europe and in the world. this is an undeniable islamization which is putting at risk a number of very fundamental european and western values and fundamental rights and human rights. i am thinking first of all of the important separation of church and state and, above all, of the equality of men and women. the islamic countries themselves are also being spared far too much in this report, although in some of these so-called developed and often very rich countries, oil states such as saudi arabia, conditions are unacceptable, ranging from actual slave trade and slave labour to particularly extreme and degrading discrimination against women. that should certainly be improved in a future report.
i voted against this resolution, not only because i am actually opposed to the pro-abortion propaganda contained in this resolution, but also because i think that the attitude of parliament in general on this issue is actually rather hypocritical. on the one hand, parliament rightly says that everything must be done to achieve a large reduction in maternal mortality in developing countries, but on the other hand parliament also continues to advocate for ever greater, ever more far-reaching legal immigration and for the european commission's proposals on the so-called blue card. it is precisely this immigration policy that is leading to a huge brain drain from the developing countries to the western countries and it is precisely this policy that is depriving the developing countries of the best people they need, including in health care, including doctors and nurses, who are needed there in africa much more than in the west. i actually refuse to participate in such a hypocritical attitude.
author. - mr president, commissioner, we can consider the coup d'état in mauritania to be a real tragedy. as it does in many countries, the european union has invested heavily in the democratization of mauritania but also, and above all, i would say, the mauritanian people have given a lot and those responsible for the relatively recent overthrow of the dictator taya have succeeded in creating enormous hope among the mauritanian people and in respecting each of their commitments, and from the organisation of the constitutional referendum in june 2006 to the holding of the presidential elections in march 2007 and the local and legislative elections in 2006. this long process had allowed everyone to speak out: trade unions, civil society, politics of course. after only a year, this coup has blown everything up and the disappointment is huge among the democrats. this catastrophe for democracy and for the mauritanian people is obviously a reminder of the extreme fragility of all young democracies and therefore also of the special attention we must pay to it. it is essential for us to condemn the new mauritanian regime unequivocally. if the elected president had made any blunders or mistakes, it was up to the mauritanian people, the parliament, the elected representatives of the nation to react, to criticize, to sanction. it was not, of course, the duty of the army, the gendarmerie or any police force to interfere in any way with matters which were exclusively political. we therefore call on the new strongmen of mauritania to return to the mauritanian people the power they have stolen from them. we ask them to allow the elected president to resume his duties as soon as possible, even if he suffers all the criticism, as long as they express themselves in a democratic manner and in respect of the aspirations of the mauritanian people once again held hostage by the will of a minority. and i would like to say, mr president, that i had the honour of chairing the parliamentary observer mission of our parliament in mauritania and i am naturally particularly moved by what is happening, and i end here, with marie anne isler béguin who will speak and who has led the european union observer mission. we deeply regret it because what we had achieved there was really the will of an entire people that was expressed throughout one of those years and what has now happened is dramatic.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, security and defence policy, on the situation in the middle east. it's a never ending story, a saga that goes on forever. it is no exaggeration to say that this house has probably condemned dozens of coups d'état in africa in recent years. in a majority of african countries, arbitrariness continues, and the same rulers have often ruled for decades. billions of dollars in development aid have not changed that. the potentates often stay where they are and we too often roll out the red carpet. this is pessimistic. the elections, which were monitored by this parliament, were conducted in an orderly manner, as has already been stated here. but events this summer in mauritania have once again proved that elections alone will not be enough to ensure that democratic values are established in africa in a lasting way. the lessons we have to learn today are that europe must have the courage to make economic aid and development aid dependent on good governance and democracy, because it is the africans themselves who will ultimately benefit from this. but the union is not yet prepared to take that position. verbal condemnation of the coup in mauritania is not enough if the european union does not at the same time take concrete and tangible sanctions to isolate the junta.
mr president, we should not be under any illusions. the theocracy in tehran will no doubt have only contempt for democracy in europe. but it is good that this parliament is once again condemning the executions in iran in clear terms. the execution of minors is not only contrary to international law, it is downright barbaric and it speaks volumes about the ruthless nature of the regime that has been sweeping tehran for decades. it may also be a warning to the naïve who think that iran can be dealt with with velvet gloves. i am not sure that this resolution is right. for it is rightly noted that iran executes more people than any other country in the world, except china. what should have been added, however, is that since january 2005 only saudi arabia, sudan, yemen and pakistan have sentenced and executed minors. it is no coincidence that islamic countries are where the sharia is applied to the letter and the spirit. maybe it's politically incorrect to say it, but the facts speak for themselves. these practices are further proof that this islam, which has not yet been enlightened, is incompatible with our western values.
author. - mr president, i would simply like to confirm that we will not support the amendment tabled here by our colleague, but that we have tabled an oral amendment to article 9 which goes along with what our colleague has said and which we of course support.
i would ask you, mr president, to make a formal protest to the mayor of cologne for depriving last weekend members of the european parliament and other elected representatives of the right to express themselves peacefully and to attend a congress on an important social and political problem, the islamization of europe. left-wing extremists have physically attacked people, set fire to city furniture, and paralyzed the entire downtown area to prevent people from attending a peaceful convention. the mayor, mr schramme, not only refused to condemn this violence and intimidation, he even approved it and presented it as if it were the people of cologne who had spontaneously opposed the organization of a congress. several people have been injured and it is a shame that such conditions can still be found today in a country which calls itself democratic, that people are violently denied the right to speak.
i think that the report, as voted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, is a good report and that we should be grateful to mr rasmussen, in particular, for having insisted for many months on the need for greater community action in the areas we are discussing this evening. nevertheless, my group has tabled a number of amendments which - in a peculiar way - are not written by my group but by mr rasmussen himself. in other words, a number of important points, including the creation of a supervisory authority at european union level, the european registration and approval of management companies and fund managers - amendments nos 6 and 7 - and the fixing of a debt limit for private equity funds - amendment no 9 - were proposals put forward by mr rasmussen, which were unfortunately withdrawn because, in his view, it was necessary - and this can be understood in some respects - to obtain a majority in this parliament, that is to say a majority with the epp and the liberals. i believe that the reason for the withdrawal of amendments, points which were in these working papers and which we consider interesting and which we believe deserve to be defended, is that in this house, in the council and certainly in the commission, there are two schools of thought: the first is that the current regulations are sufficient, at national and european level, and that, for the rest, self-regulation of the sector should be a solution to any problems, and the second is that, like mr rasmussen and others, has been insisting for many years that the system in place to monitor the whole financial markets is inadequate. i don't think, mr. mccreevy, that we haven't done anything up to now because we couldn't foresee it or because we didn't know. i think there were a lot of authoritative voices, particularly within the financial stability forum, who for several years had been drawing the attention of the public authorities to the kind of risks we were facing. you, in particular, and the barroso commission as a whole, have advocated a laissez-faire approach, considering that the current system is sufficient. the request made by parliament is clearly to change your shoulder gun. i don't know if you'll be able to do it, but i think it's necessary. i would like to stress three points which have already been mentioned but which are of particular concern to environmentalists. as regards the climate/energy package to be adopted, we know that its counterpart is a level of long-term investment, with a rate of return, a rate of return on capital, relatively moderate to meet the needs of investment. equity funds or hedge funds are not the right instruments and we are waiting for proposals from the european banking and monetary authorities to revive old proposals, i am thinking of jacques delors's in the early 1990s, and the renewed role of the european investment bank to provide long-term investment at moderate rates of return. it is difficult to stabilise the financial system - the rasmussen report alludes to this - if we do not take a firm stand against offshore havens and tax havens - on this point too, the barroso commission is very much behind in this proposal. finally, in terms of corporate governance - other colleagues have alluded to this - we should look a little more closely at how the remuneration policies of the managers of these funds are conducted. they are unacceptable and they are a threat to the economy as a whole.
president, commissioner, people are worried about what is happening to their savings, but you seem to care little about it. workers were encouraged to take out-of-court pensions, which were said to be safer and more efficient than government pensions. well, their money is in the pension funds today, but they're not sure of anything today. what is happening now is a mark on the accounts of those who believe in the unfettered free market mechanism. and you're such a free-market person. we must not make too many arrangements where there is a possibility of foreseeing them, you said in this parliament last year and you still say the same thing today. well, it's never too late to change your mind. because what else do you think needs to happen to act preemptively? the consequences of failure to act in time will be felt for years to come. so prevention is better than cure.
mr president, i have read the 2007 report of the committee on petitions with mixed feelings. positive feelings in the first place, because it goes without saying that our citizens have a right to a correct application of all laws. i am of course not opposed to citizens turning to any body, and certainly not to the european parliament, to enforce the correct application of these laws when the national or local authorities refuse to do so. the 2007 report lists a very large number of examples of cases in which the committee on petitions took very justified action. but i have mixed feelings, because on the other hand i am very apprehensive and anxious about the increasing interference of european regulation, about the increasingly european meddling and greed in matters which, in my opinion, are absolutely within the scope of subsidiarity and should actually remain within the competence of the member states. in my own country, flanders, for example, we have seen in recent years an increasing amount of european interference in matters of vital importance to us. i am thinking in particular of the example of the defence of our dutch language, our culture and our identity in our capital, brussels, and in the flemish region around brussels. we find that in such cases eurocrats with little knowledge of the facts and with very general principles come to lecture us. that is a particularly sensitive matter for us and we cannot accept it. i also note that the report makes repeated references to the procedures laid down in the treaty of lisbon. and yet i must point out again that this treaty of lisbon is politically and legally dead after the vote in ireland. we in the committee on petitions, perhaps more than any other committee, must respect the legal reality and the democratic voice of our citizens, in this case the irish people, who have put the treaty of lisbon into the dustbin.
we are very concerned about media pluralism and we therefore support the broad principles of the report. it is a pity that we have not been able to reach agreement on all the points. we fully support the need for the public service broadcaster to be given the space to play its role in a digital, interactive media environment, in balance, of course, with the commercial broadcasters. open discussion on weblogs should be encouraged. weblogs and other so-called 'user-generated content' are contributing in a fresh way to a diverse media landscape and are playing an increasingly important role in news reporting. however, the quality of a blog depends on its author and not all bloggers have the same honorable intentions. so that weblogs do not become anonymous sources of slander, we need to think about how we deal with, for example, privacy violations or right of reply. but we as a parliament must not be too patronizing.
mr president, from time to time we hear that the fight against terrorism would lead to the undermining of our freedoms. but this is a false contradiction. freedom of expression, freedom of the press and the right to privacy are indeed fundamental features of our western society. but it is precisely open societies - and this was mentioned by the previous speaker - that are today threatened by an islamic extremism which calls for terror against these values. the measures in this report are a step, but only a step in the right direction. the member states have not only the duty to protect their citizens from terrorism, but also the right to take all measures to safeguard public order. i would like to make a marginal remark, however, because italy is often mentioned in the margins of this debate today. however, the italian government has every right to fight illegal immigration and crime in any way it deems necessary, if this is justified by objective and legitimate factors. and the scandalous hearing in rome last week, in which some far-left members of this parliament accused the italian carabinieri of torturing roma children, is an insult to the italian people and unworthy of this parliament. i hope that the president of this parliament will therefore apologize to the italian government on behalf of all of us.
mr president, is it any wonder that some member states are more than tired of giving aid, as this report literally points out? i don't think it was. more and more member states and other donors are tired of continuing to pump money into all kinds of corrupt regimes that really do not care about good governance or the well-being of their own citizens. about a year ago, we were told by an unsuspecting source, the aid organization oxfam, that the wars in africa have already cost about as much as the hundreds of billions in development aid that the continent has received in recent years. it is time for africa to take some real steps first on democracy, good governance and the fight against corruption. only then can we talk about highly targeted development aid. the fact that we are talking about a budget for the development of the community, and that we are talking about a budget for the development of the community, is a very serious matter.
mr president, it is a cliché, the young are our future. and so i will be the first to admit that the quality of our teachers and of teacher training is extremely important. the question, of course, is: is it the european parliament's job to teach the member states lessons on this? is it the role of parliament to decide on the composition of teaching staff at all levels of education in the member states? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. should all this be made compulsory in teacher training because europe demands it? i think parliament can think what it wants, but it has no power over this. education is a matter for the member states and i believe it should remain so. that is subsidiarity and it must be respected.
i am naturally in favour of an effective fight against terrorism and i believe that this area of the fight against terrorism is one of the areas where there is a real need for very intensive crossborder cooperation in europe. for once, therefore, i disagree, or even disagree with the most eurocritical voices which, in my view, draw the map of national sovereignty too strictly in this area. that said, we should have the courage, also in this report for example, to speak a little clearer language. terrorism in europe is extreme left-wing and/or islamic. the incitement to terrorism is also that, and it is not least in some of those mosques which are not controlled by anyone or anything and which are mushrooming in europe today. that is the core of the problem in europe for the 21st century. islam is incompatible with our western values and freedoms and i fear that our open door and open border policies will break us down even more acutely in the future.
i voted in favour of the lefrançois report, although it is not a perfect report. but at least attention is being paid to the problem of islamists calling for violence and jihad. we all know that many mosques are hotbeds of fundamentalism, where young people are recruited into terrorist organizations and where calls are made daily for a holy war against our european values. it is high time that the end of the game was announced and that the accomplices of terrorist acts were also dealt with harshly.
mr president, this parliament, after having already done so in committee, decided by a large majority that racial or ethnic origin and a number of other parameters should not be taken into account in the processing of personal data under any circumstances. the original article 7 of the council proposal was, in my view, cautious and balanced, but the political correctness of this parliament is of course legendary and it has therefore amended this article. we are therefore on the wrong track as a parliament. not only crime prevention, but even any form of good public administration needs correct basic information. and the ethnic or national origin of people can be particularly significant in this regard and has nothing to do with racism or discrimination. i am surprised, time and again, that the same members who call in a stalinist manner for a ban on speech or even imprisonment or loss of parliamentary immunity for right-wing dissidents, show such a cold-blooded fear when it comes to the very ordinary processing of data, especially in the context of the fight against terrorism.
the green group has already used the votes on the hammerstein report to vote on the location of the european parliament in what is known as a 'sneak vote', a little bit in secret, although this had nothing to do with the report as such. i should like to make it clear that i voted in favour of the green amendment because i also believe that the travelling theatre 'european parliament' is already collecting enough taxpayers' money without having to add to it the monthly movement of people from brussels to strasbourg. i therefore also call for - and i voted for - one seat and one place of work in europe. i would just add, for the sake of clarity, that i think the debate should be open and that for me that one seat should not necessarily be brussels. the presence of the european institutions in this city and in this region also entails social, political and human costs which must be discussed and which must not be underestimated.
in writing. - as a former teacher at a so-called multicultural problem school in antwerp, i can only applaud the rapporteur's concern about the quality of education in the eu. however, it is up to the member states individually, and not the eu, to see what can be done about the quality of education. if there is one area in which the principle of subsidiarity and respect for the diversity of different cultures must apply, it is certainly education. education should not be multicultural as this report claims. education just has to be good and have quality. in flanders, for example, i have too often seen that it is the multicultural concentration schools that are reducing the quality. ideological blindfolds will not help. i therefore voted against this report.
in writing. - the financial world is shaking at its foundations. while ordinary american taxpayers pay the price of a bailout ($700 billion), the perpetrators go free. the european parliament has had an instrument in its hands with the rasmussen report to do something about better control of certain aspects of the financial sector: hedge funds and private equity. with the urgency of the crisis, we had an opportunity to call on the european commission to impose strict regulations. the greens therefore tabled several amendments to the report. since our amendments were not accepted by parliament, we voted against. there will be no european authority to oversee the financial sector, no european regulation for the registration and supervision of hedge funds, no limit on excessive investment by private investment firms. the european parliament has missed its chance, precisely in a week when the capitalist system is about to implode. we greens are sending a signal that we will continue to push for a drastic restriction of a free market which seems to have as its sole purpose speculation in order to make a profit as quickly as possible for a small group of people. this is socioeconomically irresponsible.
in writing. the lefrançois report proposes a number of good measures to make the fight against terrorism in the eu more efficient and more coordinated. that's why i voted for it. the eta attacks a few days ago and the murderous attack in islamabad prove that we can never be too vigilant and efficient in this fight. crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism - and that is today mainly islamic terrorism - is absolutely necessary if we are to achieve results. but we must not turn a blind eye to the mistakes of the past. the so-called schengen area has for years provided potential terrorists and criminals with an ideal framework for carrying out their criminal plans, often with impunity. europe must urgently reflect on its open borders policy with its disastrous consequences in the field of immigration, crime and islamic extremism. otherwise the framework proposed here will also prove useless.
in writing. - i voted against this report with all my heart. the roure report shows for the umpteenth time how europe is turning a blind eye to political correctness. it is clear that in the fight against crime and terrorism the government has the right to collect as much data as possible from potential suspects, including so-called ethnic data. the rapporteur himself admits that. but why should civil authorities not be able to do the same in other areas of data processing - and with respect for people's privacy - if this ensures good governance? why, for example, should the italian government not be allowed to take fingerprints of illegal immigrants if that is the only method of identifying them? the original council proposal on this subject was sufficiently balanced. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's so cool to be free.
in writing. - this report deserved to be abstained from. it is of course good that european citizens can petition the authorities - including their 'european authorities' - but i regret the federalist undertones that are reflected in this report. an example of this is the totally irrelevant way in which the charter of fundamental rights enshrined in the treaty of lisbon is being celebrated. another example is the commission's call for even greater efficiency - see interference - vis-à-vis the member states. i am also disturbed by the way in which this report has been misused to advocate a single european seat in brussels. of course we are all tired of the waste of money that results from the 'fragmentation' of the european parliament. but that one seat of the european parliament could just as easily be in strasbourg.
- i'm the reporter. the question we have to ask ourselves is whether, nine years after the erica accident and almost six years after the prestige accident, we are ready if something like this happens again. that is the question we are faced with. are we all right? do we have enough experts who are free enough to make decisions? can they work fast enough? are all the preparations made so that they can call on other specialists or on helpers to solve the case? is the crew being treated properly in such a case? will there be any compensation? do we know enough about ships passing by? these are the questions we have asked after the erica and also after the prestige. the commission then made proposals very quickly on this subject and we also put some things down on paper which we now have to refine. we have had a first reading, to which the council has responded in a common position, which was very disappointing. but i am very pleased to say that since then we have had informal talks with the council, first with the slovenian presidency and now especially with the french, which have produced very good results. as far as the competent authority is concerned, we are almost there. we have a good text on paper which i would like to defend with my colleagues. there is a body involved in planning, which is permanently present, which has the necessary expertise and which can make independent decisions so that ships are better received. we have also made progress in the field of tracking ships, not only by conventional radar but also by satellite. we have more detailed information about the cargo and we know who's responsible for giving that information. the monitoring also applies to fishing vessels, so that the safety of small vessels is also increased. we'll take precautions in case of ice. so we've made some progress, but we're not quite done yet. what's open? the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, including the introduction of a new system of penalties for fraud against shipowners, the compensation of shipowners for economic losses in ports and the obligation to notify bunker fuel. because sometimes small amounts of this highly polluting fuel can cause a lot of damage to the environment, as in the case of the accident with the tricolor off the belgian-french coast. there, 180 tons of fuel, very little, did quite a bit of damage. i would like to express my appreciation, mr minister, for the work that we, parliament and the council, have been able to do together on my report and i would encourage parliament and the council to continue along this path. that brings me to the two texts on which we do not have a common position. as rapporteur for one of the texts, i urge that we also obtain a decision from the council of ministers on the two texts that are missing. i know, mr. secretary, that you are working hard on this. but the financial responsibility of shipowners and the role of flag states, these two points we in parliament regard as essential to strengthening safety at sea. the hns convention, for example, must be ratified by all the member states if a proper system of reception of ships is to be established for the various member states and for the union. we, as a parliament, urge you to do everything possible to ensure that the council also takes a decision on these two texts. if not, we have a very serious problem. it is possible that all that we have achieved, as much as i appreciate it, may be considered insufficient by this parliament. i would therefore ask you, mr minister, to continue as you are doing. parliament, and in any case this rapporteur, is behind you. let us continue to work towards the best possible result for maritime safety.
- i'm the reporter. - the proposal for a regulation (com (89) 6 final) on the common organization of the market in fishery products (presented by the commission) if a competent authority in a member state takes a decision, there may indeed be a problem with the compensation of an airport to which a ship may be taken. that is something which is also discussed in my report and it is a problem which is still open between the council and parliament, one of the difficult problems. how do you solve that? i had a relatively simple solution to this, namely to place the financial responsibility in that case on the member state. the council does not agree with that and we will have to find a way. but it is not that we have not thought about this problem and taken it into account, as i wanted to say just now to avoid any misunderstanding. we are now going to conciliation and, mr minister, it is the task of both the council and parliament to make that conciliation a success. we cannot afford to fail. i must thank you again, you and your people, for the fact that we have already done 90% of the work, especially for my report. the vote tomorrow will not reflect that, but you can be sure that what we have agreed will remain on paper for me and that we will be able to deal with the remaining points very quickly and reach a result. the problem of the conciliation will be the two missing reports, the two missing texts, and i would like to emphasize once again: we are with you, we must work together, parliament is with the council and this does not happen every day!
mr minister, thank you for that answer, which i was expecting. i would simply like to say that i am one of those non-french speakers, and there are many of them, who are regular listeners and viewers of french public channels, and that the decisions taken by the french government, announced by its president, who, incidentally, happens to be the president of the european council for the time being, worry us about the future of public television and radio channels. i should also like to say that commissioner viviane reding, to whom i asked the same question in a recent interview, admitted that she was not convinced by the president of the republic's reform proposal, which was presented last january. it also deplored the president's decision to tax internet service providers to finance public television. i'd like to know your position on this matter.
mr president, i too would like to take this opportunity to express my concern about the violence against christians in india in recent weeks. dozens of people were killed, tens of thousands were driven from their homes. hundreds of homes were burned, and churches were not spared. the european union calls on the central government of india, as well as the state governments, to do everything possible to stop the violence and bring the perpetrators to justice. the summit in marseille next week should not only deepen the strategic partnership with india in terms of our trade relations, but also extend cooperation in the fight against terrorism. the bombing in islamabad last week has once again demonstrated the extent to which the neighbouring country of pakistan is plagued by the problem of islamic terrorism. it is of the utmost importance that relations between india and pakistan do not deteriorate, especially in this political transition period in pakistan. the european union must provide all possible assistance to maintain and further promote the dialogue. india has a fast-growing economy, which has an impact on energy demand. it must therefore be the policy of the european union to avoid india becoming too dependent on countries such as iran and russia.
finally, mr president, i voted in favour of both reports on the modernisation of the schengen information system. i would like to add, however, that i still believe that the application of the schengen agreements has made our borders a sort of refined seven, that they have become much less secure and less controlled. since schengen we are all as vulnerable as the weakest link in border controls and this leads to very serious problems. but if the system does exist and will continue to exist, then it is of course my duty to ensure that all checks are carried out as efficiently as possible and that information is exchanged. hence my vote in favour, which should not be interpreted as supporting the european union's open borders policy.
the recommendations that this parliament had drawn up for the european commission's 2009 work programme were, after all, quite punitive. it is not the case that the european parliament should have demanded respect for the democratic legal order in europe in the first place because of the mandarines appointed by the european commission. what would this mean in concrete terms? i will give you just two examples. firstly, for god's sake, respect the decision of the irish people, a decision which undoubtedly expresses the will of a large majority of our european citizens who are not even given the chance to speak out against that treaty of lisbon. so, let us get rid of this disguised european constitution. secondly, and this is very important, we must stop the accession negotiations with turkey, which have no democratic basis whatsoever. but we have long known that the eurocrats have no regard for the wishes of the citizens, who nevertheless pay for their princely lifestyle with their tax money.
in writing. - my vote against the so-called telecommunications package (harbour report) was prompted by the loopholes left in the directive which could constitute a possible infringement of our freedoms. for example, member states may allow providers to monitor the activities of individuals on the internet. i hope that when member states implement these new rules, they will not be tempted to filter the content of the internet. this task should be left to the police alone. i understand that infringements of property rights must be addressed via the internet, but that should not mean that the freedom of an individual internet user is compromised. we cannot create a situation similar to that of a postman opening letters to see if the contents are legal. the amendments tabled by the greens to improve this text were voted down, so that i could no longer support this proposal. i would like to vote in favour of the many consumer benefits, but i think it is unacceptable to make internet service providers responsible for the content of the internet. that's not what this legislation was intended to do.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the disease of sedentary life, the disease of young people too, obesity has been at the heart of our parliamentary work more and more, as we have said, since the beginning of this parliamentary term. each year, more than 400,000 young people are added to this long list of people who will one day experience the yo-yo effect of dieting. europe has therefore done well to take up this problem head-on. it has also developed a clear strategy in this area with the launch, in march 2005, of this european platform which brings together all the actors involved in the agri-food chain, the large retail sector, the medical professions and also consumer associations. it must be acknowledged - and we have heard this before - that it is not easy to convince that europe has more than its say in the fight against obesity. to do this we must begin by clarifying the levels of power, which does not prevent us, and we do, from reminding the member states of their competence and responsibility. i am thinking here of two strong proposals we make in the report: to avoid discrimination and stigmatisation of obese people by officially recognising obesity as a chronic disease - as is the case, for example, in the who and in portugal - to also ensure that all children have access to physical activity and sport at school - two hours a week seems to me to be the minimum - to better finance school canteens to ensure that children are provided with fresh produce, and i welcome the commission's proposal for free distribution of fruit at school, which the commissioner has mentioned. i would say that it is with this kind of simple, practical and common sense action that the citizens will also learn to love europe again. i come now to the report by mr foglietta, whom i also thank for all the efforts he has made. i would like to highlight two proposals. firstly, the choice of an incentive policy - lower prices, tax cuts - rather than a system based on an increased taxation of caloric products, the famous fat tax, which would ultimately penalise european households with modest incomes. the liberal and democratic group, which i represent here, is therefore opposed to amendment no 6 by the greens and prefers to stick to the consequent reduction in vat on fruit and vegetables, as stated in paragraph 28. my group also supports the ban on trans-artificial fatty acids which, as we know, are linked to a significant increase in cardiovascular problems. we therefore also oppose mr blokland's amendments, which seek to relax paragraphs 32, 34 and 35 and to clear, if not to bleach, these hydrogenated fats. our message to manufacturers is clear: show goodwill, innovate, for the sake of consumers' health and also for your own benefit. i would like to conclude by referring, since time is running out, to the first european parliamentary meetings on food and health which i launched in this house a year ago. it's a huge crossroads for all stakeholders, and it's been centered around four priorities: getting active at an early age, eating a varied and balanced diet, treating obesity as a chronic disease, and legislating if necessary. i would say that this is much more than a slogan, it is a real moral duty for the european union, which must take this whole part in the fight against obesity and sedentary lifestyle.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. i am therefore very grateful to you, commissioner, for your initiative, which undoubtedly has many positive aspects, particularly in the areas of quality and safety, patient information, increased european cooperation, ehealth, reference centres and so on. i also agree with you, madam minister, when you say that it is not right to leave patient mobility to the court of justice, but that legislation is really in place here. i also share the view of mr bowis and mr lambrecht that we should perhaps think again about a better balance in the area of prior authorization for patient mobility, because that prior authorization is an important instrument of control and planning by the member states. there are also a number of questions, commissioner, about the tariffs that can be applied, about mechanisms that should prevent patient mobility from leading to waiting lists in certain countries. but i am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that these are concerns and questions which we will all be able to resolve in the course of the discussion of this directive. once again, commissioner, thank you for your initiative. madam secretary, we look forward to working with you.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it responds to a need, to a reality on the ground and we can do something for the people. some colleagues here say that the rich will be the only ones who will be able to seek care abroad. we must avoid that only the wealthiest people have access to care abroad, because they can afford costly procedures through the courts. patients have a right to clarity and legal certainty, and we can work on that now, that is our job. the proposal will bring added value to eu citizens. of course it is not perfect, we will have to make some improvements. i am thinking here of the definitions of 'hospital', 'outpatient care', etc. and the fixing of the specific cases in which prior authorization may still be justified. these are points which we shall certainly include in the debate. i hope, however, that we shall have a serene and pragmatic debate and not an ideological debate. more matters will have to be dealt with by national regulations, but i cannot agree with those who say that this proposal would affect the competence of the member states to organise their health care. i think it is very important that this proposal should be discussed now.
in writing. we are still happy that the european parliament kept health services out of the general services directive. health services are a specific sector which requires a specific approach. it is essential that the proposal should assume that, in accordance with settled case law, the organisation and financing of health care is a matter for the member states. this means that on the one hand the mobility of the patient cannot be made an absolute right and on the other hand it cannot be an excuse for not investing in the health system. this principle should also have the effect of enabling member states to charge the foreign patient for the actual cost of treatment. solidarity must be there, but it cannot exclude that there is a difference in treatment between a patient who has already paid social security contributions and taxes in his own country and a foreign patient who has not. the fact that the directive exists is a positive thing, but anyone who follows the sector will certainly feel that there is still a lot of improvement to be made. the quality, accessibility and affordability of health care on a solidarity basis remain for me the evaluation criteria.
mr president, the resolution we have just voted on was unacceptable to me and certainly to my group for a number of reasons. the main reason, of course, is that i believe that europe needs nothing less than a new wave of immigration, even if it is illegal. - i'm not sure. it is very easy for companies and for the government to keep importing foreigners from non-european countries. this is causing a brain drain from developing countries to europe, which in the long run does not benefit either those developing countries or europe, but rather the opposite. let us finally begin - and i am looking first at the public authorities and the business community - with the assimilation, retraining and integration into the normal work process of the already massive, particularly massive numbers of foreigners who are here and who have not and will never be adapted.
i am glad to hear this parliament say, mr president, that all member states must ensure the pluriform nature of their media and that public service broadcasters certainly have a major role to play in this. - that's right. - what? in a normal society, this is called democracy and freedom of information, first and foremost freedom of information for opposition forces. by these criteria, belgium and even flanders are not a democracy. for example, my political party, a major political party in this country, is systematically and openly discriminated against and boycotted by the flemish public broadcaster, and this on the basis of official guidelines. - why? - why? because our views and proposals are not politically correct or deviate from the prevailing discourse. the former head of the public broadcaster recently publicly admitted that he had been made a baron by the belgian king because of his struggle against discrimination by the opposition party. a paragraph on the treatment of opposition parties who go against the grain would not be wrong in this otherwise not so bad report.
i have abstained on this report. this report rightly exposes some of the pain points of pluralism and media concentration that we have in various member states. as a fleming, i can talk about it. because no state in the european union needs a neutral media ombudsman, for example, to guarantee freedom of expression and pluralism, more than belgium. here in brussels, where the heart of the institutions beats, it is not only the private media but also the public authorities who shamelessly boycott the main opposition party, as my colleague said just now, and who deny the citizens the right to balanced and free information. the freedom of the press charter which the rapporteur is advocating may well make this kind of abuse impossible, otherwise everything will remain a mere window dressing. on the other hand, i wonder why the rapporteur wants to regulate the free medium par excellence, the internet, and in particular bloggers, more strictly, and i am not even talking about the rightful concern for respect for copyright. because it's just those states where there's no real media pluralism that are the most vocal advocates for more control over the internet. this report gives them additional arguments, and that is regrettable.
in writing. - we are still happy that the european parliament kept health services out of the general services directive. health services are a specific sector which requires a specific approach. it is essential that the proposal should assume that, in accordance with settled case law, the organisation and financing of health care is a matter for the member states. this means that on the one hand the mobility of the patient cannot be made an absolute right and on the other hand it cannot be an excuse for not investing in the health system. this principle should also have the effect of enabling member states to charge the foreign patient for the actual costs. solidarity must be there, but it cannot exclude that there is a difference in treatment between a patient who has already paid social security contributions and taxes in his own country and a foreign patient who has not. the fact that the directive exists is a positive thing, but anyone who follows the sector clearly feels that there is still a lot of improvement to be made. the quality, accessibility and affordability of health care on a solidarity basis remain for me the evaluation criteria.
for the greens/efa group madam president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, mr commissioner for economic affairs, the european greens the group i am responsible for representing this afternoon have approved the decisions of yesterday's ecofin council. and i think the only thing that we need to be concerned about, and you need to be concerned about, is the reaction of the markets today, who don't seem to be entirely convinced by the rightness of the proposals. i hope that these markets will recover and i hope that the european authorities will continue to act in this direction. i would like to make three points, or three messages. the first message concerns europe itself. our assembly is in fact divided on one side. many wanted to highlight the fact that europe was absent in the management of the banking and financial crisis. we, the european greens, would like to stress that the banking crisis above all reveals the inadequacy of common european rules and that in this field, as in many others, we need more europe and not less europe. the second message is that the actors are responsible. i understand that mr barroso, in particular, considers that the time is now for action, but i also think that the time is now for identifying a number of responsibilities. and it would probably be too easy for me to point the finger at the council, the governments making up the council, or the commission, at a time when a number of commissioners considered that better legislation was self-regulation and not legislation. to take a concrete example, the bank deposit guarantee directive: the commission tabled a report in november 2006 concluding that there was no need for further legislation in this area. i'm not sure you'd be able to maintain that position today. but that being the case, mr president-in-office, i am addressing parliament. we voted in this parliament a week ago on a rasmussen report. the first version was excellent and we supported it. the house had to vote by a majority, by lowering the demands which had been expressed by the rapporteur himself. we are in the same situation today with the lamfalussy report on the supervision and control of financial markets. here too, everyone must take responsibility and i think that the epp group and the liberal group, mr watson, have a particular responsibility in weakening the report we are voting on tomorrow. secondly, i would like to say a word about the crisis, and that is my message to you, mr barroso, since you are setting up another think tank - there are many, but perhaps a new one is welcome - and in particular on the link between the financial crisis and the ecological crisis. the financial crisis, as you yourself have pointed out, does not erase the ecological crisis. and from that point of view, i think that in the medium term, what this banking crisis reveals is a real problem of the allocation of savings in the european union. what i would like, what the european greens would like you to put on the agenda of this group, is a reflection on the instruments that the european union can have. i am thinking in particular of the european investment bank, which should be responsible for providing long-term financing to ensure that the climate/energy package and the investments it represents are effectively secured. i think that's a very fundamental point.
mr president, a little modesty is a virtue of the human being and of the politician. let us say at once that in the global financial crisis the institutions of the european union are little more than completely powerless spectators and the european parliament is little more than a completely powerless chatterbox. so i will first address a few other matters for which we do have a responsibility. the summit was originally to be dominated by the irish question and the dying treaty of lisbon. recent statements by the top bureaucrats do give a very strong feeling of déjà vu. i am thinking, for example, of commissioner wallström, who just this week said that the irish referendum had very little to do with the treaty itself, but more with ethical issues and with taxation. the commission's view is that the irish 'no' vote was actually a 'yes' vote. a feeling of déjà vu, because identical statements were also made by members of the european nomenclature after the french and dutch referendums at the time. the people say 'no', but the eurocrats understand that they have actually said 'yes'. such contempt for basic democracy is apparently a structural feature of this europe. a certain european political elite, isolated from the people, makes decisions against the people and then remains completely powerless to watch when real calamities occur, as is the case now. another example: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the accession of turkey to the european union. but what do we do? we are going to speed up the process of accession negotiations. the europe we know today is a negation of everything that has to do with democracy. and it is not by playing a little game now as if we are going to make a substantial contribution to tackling the financial crisis that we are going to solve this problem of citizens' mistrust.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, i have just said on behalf of my group that we support the conclusions of the ecofin council. i see that the stock markets are still plunging today, all european markets are falling, and falling sharply. these provisions are therefore insufficient. on the question of responsibility, i can agree with mrs kauppi that there has indeed been a lot of resistance in the council, but it is clear that in the commission, and you in particular, you have never been a fan - to say the least - of more regulation at european level. the whole of your mandate has been dominated by this idea of self-regulation linked to the sector. and that is why we are far behind in european legislation on the subjects we are discussing today. for the report which is to be voted on tomorrow, my group will support all the amendments which have been proposed, in particular by the rapporteur, mrs van den burg, which also seek, in our view, to have more stringent provisions on securitisation and mechanisms which hamper speculative flows, and which make the lamfalussy level 3 committees a bit of the embryo of that european supervision, that european supervisory body which we want. that is the direction we must take and i think that the commission, which has a monopoly on the legislative initiative, has failed in its duty during this parliament. from this point of view, the good words are fine, but you have very, very little time to make up for lost time.
i wonder, mr president, what the real purpose of this report and the amendment to the regulation which it proposes is. it is explained that the fact that the symbols of the european union are not included in the treaty of lisbon does not prevent the institutions from continuing to use them. why should they be included in the rules of procedure of this parliament? the context in which we must place this debate is that of the european constitution and the referendums which have annulled it. these symbols were deliberately not included in the treaty because, for example, the dutch do not want to know about a european superstate and the outward signs of a european superstate. in the meantime, the netherlands has ratified the treaty of lisbon. so what are we gonna do? we are now going to use a back door to incorporate these european symbols into our rules of procedure. there's no need for this regulation change. it is, in fact, a gratuitous provocation and a middle finger to the dutch electorate and, by extension, to all the electorates in europe who do not want to know about a european superstate. congratulations to the colleagues!
mr president, excuse me, i do not know under what article i am to address this house, but i would like to make a statement to the presidency about what is happening in parliament at the moment, about this kind of permanent fair that is developing, which makes it very difficult to work in a calm manner, while we are doing serious things in parliament. (applause) i think that this situation reached its peak last night and i ask the presidency to take initiatives to bring calm and seriousness back to an assembly which must be shown to the whole world, but as a serious assembly and not as a fair. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, we have just adopted by a large majority, albeit with a vote against from myself and a number of colleagues, a report which introduces a flag, an anthem, a motto and a holiday for this institution: all the symbolism, all the "sante boutique" of a real state. there is a dutch comedian, wim sonneveld, who would not be wrong here in this parliament, and who would say about something like that: 'now my ball is breaking'. i would like to remind you that it was not so long ago, after the clear rejection of the european constitution in the netherlands and france, that those provisions on the use of symbols were carefully removed and that they were no longer included in the treaty of lisbon because we know that our people do not want them. and now parliament is going to take it back and even claim in the text that it should be taken as a clear political signal to the citizens. what a cynical joke! the european nomenclature of privileged people is marching on, but, ladies and gentlemen, the people of europe have long since ceased to follow.
mr president, when we discussed the carnero gonzález report, there were moments when it seemed as if the european symbols themselves were at issue, rather than the inclusion of those symbols in our rules of procedure. the debate here and now is not about those symbols, although i can well imagine that many people have questions about the so-called 'day of europe' on 9 may, for example. the point is that it was first promised not to include these external characteristics of a european superstate in the treaty of lisbon, which most member states have ratified, and now suddenly these matters are being included and incorporated into the rules of procedure of the european parliament. this is simply contempt for the electorate, for the citizens of europe. from our ivory tower in brussels we have once again managed to alienate ourselves a little more from the citizens of the member states. this is sad.
in writing. i voted for the ecris report because behind this obscure acronym is the priority issue of networking national criminal records. make no mistake about it: we are not going to create a super-centralized data bank. each member state will continue to centrise information on its citizens, each national central administration will be the only one with access to the interconnection with the other criminal records in the union. national judicial authorities will therefore not be able to access the european criminal records directory directly: they will have to address their requests for information to the central criminal records directory in their country, which will act as an intermediary. until now, however, there has been no effective functioning of the european criminal record. we had the pilot project, launched in 2006, involving belgium, the czech republic, france, germany, luxembourg and spain, which was joined by others, given its success. we also had the decision on the organisation and content of the exchange of information on criminal records between member states. but the text was missing, which technically organized this electronic interconnection. this is now being done thanks to 'ecris', which shows that new technologies are making the daily work of justice within the union easier.
in writing. - the romagnoli report deserves our support because it represents real progress in the field of inter-judicial cooperation between member states. in the past, there have been too many cases where the criminal records of serious criminals who were in a member state other than their country of origin were not handed over to the public prosecutor's offices. the fournier case in belgium is the saddest example of this. it is good that there should be a harmonized european system of criminal records, provided, of course, that the fundamental rights of everyone are guaranteed. in particular, freedom of expression, which is severely restricted in some member states by so-called anti-racism laws, which deprive freedom, could pose a problem in this area. the criminalisation of the crime of opinion in belgium, for example, goes much further than in countries such as italy and the united kingdom, where freedom of expression is respected.
in writing. - i voted against this report. the european union is not a state and should not be allowed to play with the symbols of a state or nation, such as a national anthem, a flag, etc. it was also the intention of the treaty of lisbon, rejected by the irish, french and dutch, and its copy, the so-called european constitution, to do so. a little respect for the democratic will of the people would be appropriate here if europe is to acquire democratic legitimacy. flags and anthems belong to nations, not to economic alliances between states.
i shall vote against this report tomorrow with full conviction, mr president, because the erasmus mundus programme in its present form is totally unacceptable to me. it is unacceptable because it favours students from outside the eu over european students on an excessively large scale. the figures are what they are. since the programme started in 2004, some 4 150 students from outside the union have participated. the amount of the grant is eur 21 000 for one year of training and eur 42 000 for two years. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the training of staff and the purchase of equipment and supplies for the training of teachers and other trainers. the approximately 200 eu students participating in the programme received on average only a grant of eur 3 100 to study outside europe. the total cost of their participation was only eur 620 000. i am not in favour of such discrimination and i am against extending this programme.
mr president, mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, i have already had the opportunity twice in the committee on foreign affairs to say how much i admire the action you have taken in the crisis between russia and georgia, and i confirm that today. and i have the same positive appreciation, by the way, for your action in relation to the financial crisis and its economic consequences that we are experiencing. let me say, however, about russia that i am not entirely reassured when i read in the council conclusions that apparently the decision has been taken that negotiations for a new pact or a new strategic alliance with russia will continue in any event, even if the conclusions of the council and the commission are taken into account. i am not entirely reassured by this because, while i am convinced, as you are, mr president, that we must continue to engage with russia, i also believe that we must not give it the impression - you certainly will not give it - that nothing has happened, that it is business as usual. i believe that you will be keen, and i urge you on behalf of my group, to make it clear to russia when you meet her in moscow at the summit that it will not be business as usual anyway and that we will all be extremely vigilant about it.
i voted against mrs de sarnez's report because i do not think it is acceptable to extend the programme without fundamentally changing the discrimination against european students in relation to non-european students who want to take advantage of a scholarship. for non-european students, a scholarship for one year is eur 21,000, while for european students wishing to study outside the european union via erasmus mundus, it is only eur 3,100. such a gap is not objectively explainable and defendable, so this discrimination cannot and must not continue.
in writing. − it has long been clear that the least developed countries (ldcs) are the most affected by global warming, while they have contributed the least to it. their vulnerability will only make them more vulnerable to poverty. i think it is good that the rapporteur, mr wijkman, has emphasized this very strongly. the idea is to create an alliance to combat climate change, but the commission is not providing enough money for this. the cost of climate change could be as high as 80 billion euros. the budget allocated by the commission is eur 60 million: far too little for the mols to prepare for climate change. it's now up to the alliance to find or release more funds. this means that the individual member states of the union must assume their responsibility. they have to make available a much larger amount than they are currently making. the european parliament also proposes to use at least 25% of the eu's revenues from the emissions trading system for the alliance. it seems that the union is beginning to think differently about development cooperation in the light of climate change, and that is a good thing. that is why i support the report.
in writing. - erasmus mundus ii is broadly similar to its predecessor, although it has been significantly modified. important are a more balanced and guaranteed geographical representation in erasmus mundus programmes that can be offered by consortia of universities from at least three european countries, and additional attention to vulnerable groups. the admission criteria for training should be quality-oriented, while respecting equality between men and women and improving access for disadvantaged groups. the principle of equal opportunities and non-discrimination must also be respected by the institutions offering the training when awarding scholarships to european students and students from third countries. erasmus mundus ii should also contribute to the sustainable development of higher education in europe and in third countries, with the commission making every effort to prevent brain drain. we greens will ensure that these changes are put into practice. the evaluation of erasmus mundus should also show that access to erasmus mundus training has improved for vulnerable groups. in these circumstances, the greens/efa group in the european parliament adopted this report.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr minister, madam commissioner, first of all, if i may, i would like to recommend a good book for your christmas holidays and i would recommend the very good biography of the comtesse de ségur. you know that the countess of ségur was born sophie rostopchine, rostopchine of course, and that her father is the one who stopped the great emperor napoleon's run in russia, and the book describes admirably how all this happened. i think some of the lessons that we can learn from this are still valid today. but that was the beginning of it. first of all, i would like to make it clear that in my speech this morning i never meant to suggest that the eu-moscow summit should not be held. of course you didn't. it had to hold. but what i meant - and perhaps i was mispronounced, since i had only one-and-a-half minutes - was that i thought i could deduce from the council's conclusions that the decision to continue, to resume negotiations on the partnership, the association treaty, had in fact already been taken and that, whatever happens, no matter how the summit of the 14th, which may be difficult, unfortunately turns out, the negotiations would resume, and that would of course be taken into account - that would be all that was needed - the assessment of the commission and the council. and actually, i wanted a little more clarification on this. so, mr president, whether he misunderstood me on purpose or not, i don't know. in any case, he has not replied to me and i would like to have an answer, mr minister, because i would personally regret that the decision has already been taken to resume the negotiations in any event. i am a firm believer in dialogue with russia. it's a big country, of course. it is a great country that is very proud, it is also a great country that does not know much about compassion and does not like, i think, that others put themselves in a position of weakness. so, having already decided that, whatever happens, we will resume negotiations, even before the summit has taken place, i do not know if that is the greatest diplomatic skill. but i have very little time, so i hope, mr minister, that you will give me a clear answer, one way or another, but i would be grateful.
president, minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is much to be said about the conflict between russia and georgia, and it is certainly a defining factor in our relations with russia today. what can be said in any case is that both russia and georgia have failed. it is not possible for countries to use military means to solve their conflicts. there is a theory in political science that says that democratic countries should resolve their conflicts in a democratic way, through dialogue, and not through military means. this has not happened here, and it is therefore certain that there is a lack of democracy both in georgia and in russia. otherwise, it wouldn't have worked out the way it did. the debate today will focus on our relationship with russia. what we can say about russia, in any case, is that the situation there remains very critical, in terms of democracy, respect for human rights, freedom of the press and freedom of association, the situation in chechnya - this is somewhat out of date, but anyone who follows the matter closely knows that the situation in chechnya is still very serious - and also the problems currently facing the preparation of the winter games in sochi. these are all issues that cause a lot of problems. i think, as has been said several times, that there is a mutual interdependence between the european union and russia. - that's right. - what? but i think that whenever we talk about interdependence and we discuss the problems mentioned, we must bring into our discussion other values, the values of a democracy, the typical european values, other methods of resolving conflicts, the quest for more democracy, the use of soft power instruments. the greens are absolutely in favour of dialogue. i think that is a hallmark of the european union. the european union is an extreme exercise in conflict resolution and conflict prevention by peaceful means. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe.
in writing. president, commissioner, if we want to have a credible climate policy and we are facing crucial weeks in this respect then the government must first of all set the right example. that is why this is an excellent directive and why we should introduce it as soon as possible. no one is preventing national authorities from starting this in a year's time. that's perfectly possible. the european label is not yet in place, but we can come up with initiatives at national level that raise awareness and have a recruiting effect on public opinion. that's the whole point. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in the member states. it is therefore important that there should be maximum transparency in the purchase of these new vehicles, so that everyone, particularly at local level, can examine and compare cases in concrete terms. we ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, can set a good example, for example by not taking a 4x4 to strasbourg or brussels, but by using an environmentally friendly version, which emits less dust and soot and less co2. and your comfort doesn't even have to suffer.
president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we are in favour of a european approach. there can be no doubt about that. but it must also be clear that with the shift of decision-making power from the member states to europe, the european parliament must also have much more powers to take decisions in the field in question and to exercise control. that is also the agreement we made a few months ago when we amended the regulation. today we have a first set of measures to examine. there are two important aspects to this. firstly, the lifting of the liquid ban by april 2010 that is very positive. we'd like to get things moving faster, but okay. secondly, the inclusion of the famous body scanner on the list of possible screening methods. in this connection, you refer to the fact that pilot projects are already under way at a number of airports - heathrow, schiphol, etc. - and that european agreements are needed. i believe that the member states in question cannot continue their pilot projects unless we solve the problem at european level. so the reasoning is actually the other way around. i think that we as the european parliament must examine this in depth and that before we can finally give the green light we must have a detailed answer to a number of questions which have been raised here, amongst others. you have already partially answered, so i am very pleased about that, but i think more systematic work is needed, with regard to privacy - it has already been mentioned - with regard to the health risks and also with regard to the impact: what is the outcome of the new system compared to existing screening methods? i think that we expect you to give a structural answer to these and other questions, and if the answers are satisfactory, we can effectively give the green light at a later stage.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs grossetête and the other members who have worked on this report. this is a very important subject because it affects our health. this report is an important step forward in the harmonization of the internal market but also in the field of consumer protection, especially for our elderly. as our commissioner has pointed out, our population is ageing - and we welcome that, of course! - but it is one of the problems that will become more and more important. the directive will make the indications on a medicinal product identical in all member states, providing clarity and transparency for european users, whether patients, veterinarians or farmers. the report also makes a significant contribution to the administrative and technical simplification of the current procedures by introducing a single authorization procedure. it will no longer be necessary to make 27 applications in all the member states, but a single application to the european medicines agency. this report is a further step towards our european construction.
i voted in favour of this report with conviction. it is good that europe is doing something to protect children from the many dangers they face on the internet today. young people are introduced to the internet at an early age, but they are also exposed to its dangers. it is estimated that 9 out of 10 children between the ages of 8 and 16 have been exposed to pornographic material on the internet. online porn dealers are getting more and more daring. in addition to the dangers of internet pedophiles and pornography dealers, there are also the online casinos and their aggressive marketing techniques. younger children, in particular, are not always aware of the dangers of this. the protection of children from all this is therefore the responsibility of parents, schools and teachers, but also of politics. they must both monitor and sensitise, especially the youngest groups in society, because they are the most vulnerable and vulnerable.
i voted against the andersson report, not only because the text is in the field of employment law, which is a matter for the member states, but also because it refers repeatedly to the charter of fundamental rights and the treaty of lisbon. it is not the first report to do so, of course, but it shows a profound contempt for the voters in ireland who have abrogated the treaty and, in fact, for all the voters in europe who have not had the chance to express their democratic opinion on the treaty of lisbon. every time we hear promises that europe will take account of the will of the people, that something will be done to close the democratic deficit, and every time we see in this parliament that these promises are not being kept. the european union has a credibility problem at least as great as the problem of the democratic deficit.
in writing. the internet is an integral part of our children's daily lives. as people age, the frequency of internet use increases. from the age of 11, young people surf daily and by the age of 15 they are connecting and exchanging on the net several times a day. however, the use of this formidable tool for access to knowledge and as a stepping stone to the cognitive society is not without risks. many children are unwittingly exposed to harmful images or content, such as commercial scams, harassment, pornography, racism, and suicide. one of the reasons for this is the lack of adequate international regulation and cooperation. the european safer internet programme, with a budget of €55 million, aims to raise awareness not only of the dangers of the internet for children but also for parents and teachers. it also aims to encourage the development of filtering systems and to encourage the labelling of internet sites deemed safe for children. i therefore naturally voted in favour of the report by the italian mep roberta angelilli, who advocates the use of the internet in a secure environment, ensuring that the physical and moral integrity of our children is protected as much as possible.
i believe that we must be very careful and think again whether it is wise to offer bosnia and herzegovina the prospect of membership of the european union. as has been said, there are many conditions to be met. it is the evidence itself, but i would also like to mention the problem of the growth of islamic fundamentalism in bosnia. it is becoming increasingly clear that the salafist networks are being built up with financial and logistical support from saudi arabia. these networks are a danger to the peaceful society in the country itself, but also to the security of, in fact, the whole of europe. i would therefore like to join mr belder in his questions. can the council and the commission comment on the measures being taken to prevent the problem of possible terrorist networks from becoming a problem of the european union?
the committee on petitions' report, mr president, is very constructive and very positive about the work of the european ombudsman, and i can largely agree with it. however, i take the opportunity to draw the ombudsman's attention to the systematic way in which the european parliament itself, and the commission in fact much more, ignores and violates a number of very clear rules of law and, in a number of cases, makes a decision that is undemocratic and therefore, admittedly, undemocratic. more specifically, i think that the european ombudsman should pay particular attention in his report next year, and i ask him to do so, to the way in which the rejection of the lisbon treaty as a result of a democratic referendum in ireland, which therefore makes that treaty legally null and void, is deliberately and repeatedly ignored in texts and decision-making by all the european institutions. i hope that the ombudsman is prepared to take on this task and thereby ...
mr president, i did not approve the 2009 draft budget, and in particular the commission budget. - why? - why? i want to make a political statement by not agreeing in any way with the way the commission is working. in general, i regard the commission as an institution which by definition, in terms of its principles, operates undemocratically, since it is in fact a college of purely politically appointed high officials, who, however, behave like a kind of european mandarins who can hardly tolerate control and who cannot be sanctioned either. on the political front, as regards the 2009 budget, i am opposed, first of all, to the commission's continuing efforts to continue mordicus on the doomed path of the accession of muslim and non-european turkey to the european union. i have no intention of endorsing this policy.
i voted against the final vote on the draft general budget for 2009 for the various european institutions, including, of course, parliament. firstly, because i am not convinced that all these european institutions, without exception, are sparingly and responsibly managing the large amounts of taxpayers' money that are spent on them. on the contrary, to be honest. the european institutions, we must be well aware of this, have an image in the eyes of our electorate of fat people, where overpaid and underpaid apparatchiks and parliamentarians constitute a sort of nomenclature on the soviet model, where decisions are often taken over the heads of the citizens and certainly against the will and interests of the citizens. that is the image we have, which is certainly not right for everyone, but which i fear is a basis of truth in a good number of european institutions. i think we have a long way to go before we can paint a more positive picture of our europe.
i have not abstained on the resolution on air safety and body scanners because i object to the reservation made in it on the right of privacy of passengers, on the contrary. i also believe that body scanners cannot be put into service without a clear scientific and medical assessment of the possible health effects of the use of the technology in question on the users. i can only regret that the proposal to postpone the vote for a moment and to invite commissioner tajani to propose a study on the subject which might enable us to make a more informed assessment of the use of body scanners was voted down. this is a very serious matter . the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future. i therefore regret that we are treating this matter in this parliament in a careless way.
mr president, the present report by the committee on petitions on this 2007 report of the european ombudsman was very positive overall and i can certainly agree with that for once. i therefore approved the report. nevertheless, i would like to point out again in this explanation of vote that it is strange that parliament should congratulate the european ombudsman on his efforts to ensure that laws and regulations are applied correctly and fully, when breaches of the law and the rules are taking place daily and on a very large scale, so to speak, under the noses of us members of parliament, without parliament's intervention or even with parliament's cooperation. for example, the way in which the commission and parliament continue to build on the treaty of lisbon, which has been politically and legally dead since the referendum in ireland, is a violation of all the rules of law. i think again that we must start sweeping our own doorsteps as a matter of urgency.
author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to ask you to apologise to my colleague, mr hutchinson, who was unable to be with us today. 5,400,000 people, that's the number of victims of the conflict in the democratic republic of congo since 1998. that's 1,500 people dying every day. these are women who did not survive the mutilations inflicted on them, rebels or soldiers of the congolese regular army; they are also child soldiers, torn from their parents; they're all young girls whose brief sojourn on earth was nothing but a nightmare. the violence of the words i use, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing compared with the violence that has been expressed in the democratic republic of the congo for too long, a violence that has been amplified and spread in recent weeks, and all this in the utter indifference of the international community. the evidence we are collecting is overwhelming: overwhelming for the soldiers, in the various rebel factions present; overwhelming also for the government forces who, instead of protecting the population, represent a threat to it; the un is still overwhelmed by the inability to provide protection for civilians. so, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution we are discussing is intended to alert international public opinion to what is happening and to formulate a series of very concrete demands for a rapid and lasting resolution of this conflict. the socialists stress several of these demands: first, the strengthening of the un mission with european staff able to communicate with the population; secondly, we call on the highest political and military authorities in the congo to do everything possible to ensure that the soldiers of the congolese army put an end to their abuses once and for all.
president. - i call the enlarged bureau. i would like to protest briefly against the fact that the lehne report, which should normally have been debated this evening and which concerns the immunity of my colleague, mr frank vanhecke, has been taken off the agenda this evening. so there is no debate, contrary to what was on the original agenda. secondly, i would object to the fact that, after the report had been considered in committee, mr lehne did not want to send it to the person concerned, saying that it would be forwarded to him only after discussion in the plenary. it was discussed at length on the belgian television channel vrt in the evening and was therefore leaked. i would therefore ask you to consider how it is that this confidential report, which the person concerned did not have access to, could be discussed on belgian television at night and yet not be so confidential.
for the greens/efa group mr president, mr president of the eurogroup, mr commissioner, on behalf of my group, i would also like to thank mrs berès and mr langen for the important report they have submitted to us 62 paragraphs, 14 dense pages there is food for thought. i take this opportunity to inform the president of the eurogroup and the commissioner, also on behalf of my group, of a number of points which, in our view, deserve more consideration than what is mentioned in the report. the first point concerns the exchange rate policy of the euro. i admit that i do not always understand whether there is an exchange rate policy for the euro vis-à-vis other international currencies or whether there is none and whether, at the g20 or elsewhere, there is a discussion about how to continue to finance the very large deficits of the united states. my second comment concerns the issue of coordination. i think the euro is a success, especially from a political point of view, because it gives the european union a status of political power, but i think that coordination is not working very well, and this is at least in three respects. the first point is the question of taxation. you know the greens' position on this, we are in favour of tax competition within the union, but fair tax competition. we think there is too much delay in the fight against tax havens, including within the european union, and we think there is too much delay in the extension of the savings income directive. on the question of the coordination of budgetary policies - second point - i note that each member state is embarking on so-called recovery plans. at european level, i hear mr strauss-kahn say, for example, that 1% of community gdp should be committed, which is practically the budget of the european union for one year. where are we in that respect? i think that the coordination is not very good and i also think that the responses you are giving to the revised stability pact are not sufficient or up to the challenge that we face. finally, the third point on which i think there is a lack of coordination is the wage policy in the various countries of the european union. in reality, germany has built its performance over the last decade on a wage policy which, given the size of the german economy, is at the origin of the whole dynamic of the eurozone. i think that this is a problem in terms of the level of domestic demand and also in terms of the level of wages for a number of categories of workers, not to mention the precariousness. on these three points, mr president of the eurogroup, i would expect more ambition from you and the council of finance ministers that you represent for the future, since we are also talking about the challenges ahead.
mr president, madam commissioner, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, a big thank you to our colleague, mr capoulas santos, for the titanic work he has done, in a good mood, it must be stressed. the cap has always been about ensuring food supplies for all. this is even more so today, as the crisis we are experiencing is weakening both consumers and farmers. it is essential to guarantee consumers access to food, but also a decent income for farmers. we must therefore encourage and help young farmers to set up and develop their businesses, because they are the ones who will help feed the planet tomorrow. i would like to stress the difficulties facing the sheep and goat sectors, and the minister has been very sensitive to this, and it is imperative to support them not only for meat but also for milk, a sector which i know very well in sardinia.
in writing. we are convinced that we should be firmly committed to projects where all young people up to 12 years of age receive a piece of fruit every day. schools play a central role in teaching a healthy lifestyle. a healthy diet and adequate exercise help to prevent overweight. children who learn to like fruit at school continue to eat fruit as adults. many schools are already making great efforts to provide children with fruit every day, but the resources available are too limited. european financial support for school fruit distribution is therefore important. we therefore make an emotional appeal to the european commission and the council to support this budget increase. the health of our young people is at stake, and these costs pay for themselves in the long run.
in writing. - i voted against the report for several reasons. there was no serious debate in the committee. only 7 of the 28 members were present. there was no debate in the plenary. even before the vote in committee, when mr vanhecke was not yet allowed to see the text of the report, the content was discussed on flemish public television. this is a disgrace. but the worst of all is the conclusion of the report. it is recommended that the immunity be waived, whereas vanhecke is not the author of the text in question and the belgian constitution clearly states that only the author can be prosecuted if he is known. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal basis for the procedure is established. this case is a political maneuver to target a flemish national opposition leader. it is a shame that the ep is being used for this.
in writing. - i note here, without the slightest illusion, that the european parliament is the shameful accomplice of a political lynch party by the belgian courts. i have been allowed to defend myself for up to 20 minutes in the legal affairs committee, in the presence of only 7 of the 28 members, on a dossier of hundreds of pages. i was not allowed to defend myself at all in plenary, contrary to rule 7 of our own rules of procedure. if this were to happen in russia, we would speak of shame. i am not going to bow my head and i will continue to defend freedom of expression in flanders and in europe, especially with regard to the problem of foreigners and the danger of islam.
in writing. on 1 february 2007, when adopting my report on the promotion of healthy eating and physical activity in the eu, the european parliament delivered several strong messages, including the fundamental nature of nutrition and health education to prevent overweight and obesity, which affects more than 5 million children, and the call to the commission and the council to take the necessary measures, in the context of the 2008 and 2013 cap revisions, to strengthen incentives for healthy nutrition in rural development policies. the commission seems to have got the message across with this european initiative to distribute free fruit to school children aged 6 to 10 for the 2009-2010 school year. the 27 member states now have to play along. obviously, it will take a lot of time, money, and manpower, as well as changes in the menus in many school canteens, for the who recommendation to eat 5 servings of fruits and vegetables a day (or 400 grams) to become more than a small-print advertising slogan on television screens.
in writing. − the fight against obesity should start at an early age. the supply of fresh fruit at school can be a great incentive to eat healthily. so this programme, which provides at least one piece of fruit a day for every child between the ages of three and ten, is a very good thing. an estimated 22 million children in the european union are overweight, of whom 5.1 million are obese. this is not only causing a lot of health problems, but also high health care costs for the member states. if the commission follows parliament's proposal to increase the budget from eur 90 million to eur 500 million, every child can learn good eating habits from an early age. this gives them more chances to maintain these habits later on and thus avoid becoming overweight. the report also deals with the composition of the fruit supply. local and seasonal fruit should be given priority by the member states. the report also calls for the children to receive health and nutritional advice, along with information on the characteristics of organic farming. i am satisfied with the content of the report and have therefore voted in favour.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr president-in-office, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by setting the stage in the middle of these delicate debates, in a very comfortable atmosphere, as i have been there three times in recent months. and there, as we speak, are violence, rape and death. this is, for the moment, the daily life of the many citizens who live in this horrible part of the world. i believe that the time is no longer for rhetoric; the time is now for action. this dirty war, in fact, is not at all, in my opinion, an ethnic war, as some are beginning to say; we can always create ethnic wars, that's fine with us europeans, because when we talk about ethnic wars, it means that africans fight each other and that's not our problem. no, the war that is taking place there has to be founded on the mines - the diamond mines, the coltan mines, the gold mines - which, despite the massacres, continue to be gently and efficiently exploited, whose minerals are exported, to the nose and beard of the un forces, from the airport in goma or the road to kigali, and from which some continue to enrich themselves very much. this is war. if we want to stop this war, we must first look at this issue, at the closure of these mines, at the measures to be taken to prevent this scandalous trade. we can go back to processes, like the kimberley process, which was issued for the diamond, and i suppose some colleagues will speak about that here. basically, in the last ten years, this is a figure that some people dispute, but i assure you that it is easily verifiable, more than 5 million congolese died in this region in a violent way, whether victims of the war, immediately, or victims of collateral damage, such as diseases, etc., that it brought about around it. the question now is who is making this war work and who has an interest in its continuation. i think that is an important first point. i believe that there are three important things about the european union, and my group also believes this. first of all, we must support the peace efforts that have been under way for some time, not just in recent weeks. we have proposed father malu malu for the sakharov prize, because this gentleman has been committed for a long time to trying to find peaceful solutions in this region. he brought together in goma not only the cndp - because the cndp came, went, returned, returned - but all the rebel movements and the government of the drc. i think it was important. there is the nairobi process and the recent nairobi summit, to which the commissioner was referring. i think that we must of course support these efforts and support our commissioner, louis michel, who, i say, as a socialist, is a liberal, but who is making very significant efforts in this area. secondly, we must defend the population at all costs. we are told that monuc is not there to make war, that it is there to ensure peace. yes, perhaps, but monuc has a "chapter 7" mandate. it is not like in 1994 in kigali, where we could do nothing, where we had to watch, helpless, the massacres. here, there is a chapter 7, and the mission of monuc is to defend the civilian population. well, that civilian population over there is being slaughtered and monuc is not moving. there was a massacre not long ago in a village whose name i have not yet been able to remember, in kiwanja, at the foot of a monuc camp. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. in any case, we will table an amendment to that effect. finally, i believe, and i will say this very quickly in conclusion, that we must of course take the necessary decisions to stop the exploitation and trade of minerals, which are essentially responsible for all the massacres that are taking place there.
mr president, there is little point in debating here today to say how sorry we are about the tragedy taking place in eastern congo. we must dare to say what is at stake and, of course, dare to ask whether europe, and in particular countries such as france and belgium, with their particularly bad reputations in the region, should intervene militarily. to me, the answer is no. because what are we finding? europe is proving once again in the congo how divided and weak it is and how illusory it is to think that a common foreign and security policy is possible at this moment. let us be honest, paris, not to mention the current president of the council, has just had the chief protocol officer of the rwandan president kagame arrested in germany for the assassination attempt on president habyarimana in 1994. he is considered an interested party in the conflict. my country, belgium, also speaks with a split tongue. the belgian foreign minister, karel de gucht, was just yesterday strongly critical of the policy of the european commissioner for development cooperation, louis michel, precisely because of his congo policy. i quote karel de gucht: " the european union is not a party to the conflict . "if the current situation in congo is the fruit of michel's policies, then that counts. the situation has never been more dire". these are the words of a political ally of the commissioner. in the light of this cacophony, we can only conclude that the protection of the civilian population should be the primary responsibility of the african union, which should be encouraged, and of the un mission in the congo. europe would do better to remain militarily neutral in these matters.
mr president, mr hutchinson, you opened the debate by saying: stop the rhetoric and get to action now. i think he's absolutely right. i would like to draw two essential points from the debate. firstly, and most importantly, the recommendations of the un panel of experts on the illegal exploitation of congolese natural resources and the sanctions against individuals and companies whose involvement in the plundering of the resources has been proven must be implemented. the eu must act. secondly, there is a need to effectively curb the illegal exploitation and to implement traceability systems for the origin of gold, tin ore, coltan, cobalt, diamond, pyrochlore and wood, so that this blood trade can be brought to an end. my very specific question to mr jouyet and commissioner ferrero-waldner is: what initiatives will you take in this area in the coming months? i think that needs to be answered.
president, mr president-in-office, commissioner, after all that has been said, i should like to put the following to you. you both stressed that there is no military solution to this conflict. i couldn't agree with you more. but, commissioner, mr president-in-office, there is nothing wrong with the goma or nairobi agreements. there's nothing wrong with the process being restarted. only the agreements are never followed. of course europe must insist on a stronger and better monuc mandate and more troops. but the big question we have to ask ourselves is: can monuc ever succeed, even with a chapter 7 mandate, without european intervention? mr president-in-office, i would like to ask you: what were the good reasons given by the european union ministers for rejecting such a european intervention?
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said here, the car industry is a vital sector, a key sector for the european economy, with 12 million direct and indirect employees. that's a lot. i therefore think that cheap loans for this key sector are more than justified, but then of course that fresh money must go to new, environmentally friendly technologies. we can expect european car manufacturers to cooperate even more on these new technologies, for example in developing affordable high-performance batteries for electric cars. we must also recognize, ladies and gentlemen, that europe has made mistakes of its own. we may have over-committed ourselves to hydrogen, when we need to have energy-efficient hybrid electric motors in the very short term. we may therefore have to adjust our priorities and projects, particularly in the context of the seventh framework programme for research and development. it must be our ambition, it can be our ambition - why not - to have all new cars in europe electrified by 2020, whether they are hybrid or not. why wouldn't it be? to achieve this, ladies and gentlemen, we must also make a rapid change, which means investing in the training of the workers themselves. we are counting on you, commissioner, to agree that aid for the training of workers is a future-oriented and responsible investment and should be regarded as such. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. i think it is right to encourage and reward such policies. finally, the co2 legislation we are about to pass in the coming weeks is the ultimate opportunity to be ambitious. crises always create opportunities too. we need to put a lot of money together on these next-generation cars. if we continue now, if we continue now, we as the european union will dominate that market for decades to come. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express my congratulations, as many others have, to our two rapporteurs, mrs klamt, to whom i offer the condolences of my group, and to mr patrick gaubert. but i would also like to involve the french presidency, mr jouyet, because, in any case, with regard to the blue card, the french presidency has shown a high degree of commitment which has already made it possible to reach a political agreement at council level. i do not think that the emphasis on mr gaubert's report has been the same. with these two reports, as my colleagues have said, the european union is taking an important step forward in terms of migration policy. we all know, and we have deplored it in recent years, that most of our time and resources have been devoted to fighting, as is necessary, against illegal immigration. but today, with these two texts, the european union is reaffirming the need and importance of an active policy of legal economic immigration. we all know that legal economic immigration is a necessity for the european continent, and it is not the obscurantism of a few fascists that will change our minds. the report by our colleague, mr patrick gaubert, by introducing the obligation for member states to grant a single residence and work permit, also aims to ensure the right of migrant workers to equal treatment in as many areas as possible. i want to send a message to my friend giusto catania. giusto, you said something stupid. the single permit does not apply only to workers who are currently in the territory of the european union; equal rights are for those who are to come, not just for those who are here. so when you criticize something in order to have arguments to reject a report, you should still try to read it correctly, forgive me. the klamt report, on the other hand, aims to define the conditions for entry of highly qualified nationals into the european territory, and we absolutely need this. i would like to say a final word on this, because my liberal colleagues have made some comments on this. i share with them a number of regrets. the system - i am not talking about principles - is a little too frivolous, at times too protectionist, but fundamentally it represents a necessary step forward, and that is why, both personally and as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, i will vote in favour of both reports.
author. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, on behalf of my group, i have joined this oral question to express our disapproval of cluster munitions and bombs, for obvious reasons, and to support the attitude of the member states which have agreed to the convention banning them. i hope, as do my colleagues, that in the coming weeks all the member states will sign this convention and abide by it without any reservations. because you are well aware that there is talk that, under the influence of the united states or inspired by it, some states, including some member states, might consider circumventing the convention by playing - if i may put it this way - on the definition of what cluster munitions are and on their lower risk of inadvertently injuring people who touch fragments that would not have exploded. i wish that didn't happen. my group does not want that to happen, and i therefore ask the council what it intends to do to ensure that this convention is implemented. finally, mr minister, i have read that in the near future you may be embarking on, as they say, other challenges. if that is true, my wishes go with you and those of my group go with you.
madam president, i am pleased that the council and the commission are making a statement on the economic and social impact of current demographic trends. many politicians have the unhealthy tendency to think short-term and neglect longer-term policy. our demographic challenge is a vital long-term problem which also requires long-term solutions. the average birth rate among women in the european union is 1.5. that's too low to replace the current generations. herein lies the crux of the problem. the short-term solution to the problem of immigration is to advocate an even greater wave of immigration from outside europe. on paper this may seem a solution, but the daily reality in our big cities proves the total failure of the lax immigration policy of the last thirty years. we have 20 million unemployed in europe and yet the commission wants to bring in more immigrants. i would also point out that the unemployment rate among non-european immigrants is significantly higher than among the native population in the member states. i shall not, for lack of time, go into the social problems such as the social disruption caused by mass immigration. what is needed is a policy in the member states which encourages young european families to have children. fiscal measures are needed in the member states to make having children more attractive. more and better childcare facilities must be provided. we must also dare to think about the introduction of a parental allowance for one of the parents who chooses to devote himself first and foremost to the education of the children.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission welcomes the court’s annual report. i would like to underline the very constructive cooperation we have enjoyed with the court. there is one piece of really good news in the report: the court has given the accounts a completely clean bill of health, what the auditors call an ‘unqualified opinion’. this is a remarkable achievement in only the third year of the new accounting system. there is a second piece of very good news: the court acknowledges that we are strengthening our supervisory systems. in 2007, for the first time, there is not a single chapter with a red card on control systems from the external auditor. many efforts are ongoing in this field. i would like to highlight the annual summaries of existing audits in structural funds submitted by member states for the first time last spring. the court recognises these efforts, even if results are not yet translated into significantly reduced error rates on the ground. the commission is encouraged by this. it is a fact that on individual transactions the picture remains mixed. for the european agricultural guarantee fund, the largest volume of agricultural expenditure, the court recognises that this year again the error rate is below materiality level. the same is not true for the rest of the chapter on natural resources, where rural development is prone to a high level of errors. for cohesion funds too, the court still finds far too many errors. the commission is giving the highest priority to reducing these error rates, and it is not shying away from taking a tough stance if needed. in 2008 we have already imposed financial corrections on the erdf and esf – the cohesion funds – for eur 843 million and an estimated eur 1.5 billion more is in the pipeline. allow me to recall that, as far as errors in the underlying payments are concerned, the bar is set very high. at least 98% must be error-free. nevertheless, we are getting closer: the auditors now say that for all budget areas but one as much as 95% or more of the payments are free from serious financial error. for external aid and internal policies, such as transport and energy, as well as education and citizenship, the court does note improvements. administration and economic and financial affairs fare even better. these areas are in direct management by the commission, which may partly explain why efforts undertaken have a more immediate impact. so, to summarise: in the commission’s view the court of auditors’ annual report for 2007 shows that there is steady, gradual progress. we have come a long way over the last five years. looking at the progress made, i can assert that the commission has absolutely no regrets about having set itself the objective of achieving a positive declaration of assurance concerning the underlying transactions. we hope that the european parliament will recognise the positive developments and continue to support efforts for simplification, better management, and more accountability from the member states.
i would like to thank the court of auditors, and especially its staff. they've done another great job. commissioner, i would remind you that you did indeed promise at the beginning of your mandate as an anti-fraud commissioner and you promised that at the end of your mandate you would ensure that there was a statement that the reliability of the accounts and the regularity and legality of all the accounts were in order. are we there yet? obviously not. for the 14th time in a row, that statement is not there. are we on the right track? without a doubt. that is what the court of auditors says and what you defend with all your might. should we be worried? i think i did. but you have exactly one year to fulfil your promise, your commitment, and there is - as my colleagues have said - work to be done. what does the court of auditors find? there are shortcomings in accounting systems, partly due to the complex legal and financial framework. the court of auditors still says that there is a risk to the quality and financial information. what does the court of auditors say about the regularity and legality of the disbursements? okay, what about the administrative expenses? major problems in large parts of the budget. agriculture, the cohesion fund, the structural funds, the regional fund, social policy, rural development, research and development, energy, transport, external aid, development and enlargement, education and citizenship. the cohesion fund itself and the structural funds are a representative example of all that is involved in cohesion. we note that the court of auditors says in its report that in 11% of cases payments should never have been made. i think that is a very strong statement and we will have to pay very close attention to it in the report. 2007 was the first year - several colleagues have pointed this out - in which member states were required to draw up an annual overview of the available checks and declarations. the court of auditors says this isn't working. the statistics are not comparable and do not contain all the information we need. however, mr mulder rightly said that there was a commitment, a political agreement. we have worked hard for that in this parliament. and what do we see? a whole series of member states are not really willing to cooperate. it is the eurosceptic countries that are doing the best: the united kingdom, denmark and the netherlands also have a large share. this is not possible. we must indeed hold the council to account. finally, on behalf of the greens, i would also like to stress the political requirement for the member states, namely that they should indeed take political responsibility for the expenditure they are co-managing. that is a goddamn duty! we also want more transparency about the final destination, about the final beneficiaries. there is a fine website, but i see that some member states, including my own country, belgium, put information on it that is totally inadequate and totally non-transparent. so there is still a way to go and we will have to fight for it during the discharge.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. that means cooperation between parliament and the council, and indeed the council is absent. let us be honest, the french presidency is totally uninterested. that's why they're not here. i would like to see mrs gräble agreeing to the czech presidency's first reading, but i fear the worst. i think the czechs will also show little willpower. in addition to the five points which mr chatzimarkakis has listed and which i fully support, i should like to list ten points which we in the committee on budgetary control consider important in our cooperation with mrs gräblé and which we consider absolutely necessary. firstly, we are in favour of better cooperation between olaf and eurojust in the exchange of information on crossborder crime between more than two member states. the cooperation agreement between olaf, eurojust and europol is of great importance. secondly: a clearer definition of the role and duties of the director-general of the olaf anti-fraud office. that way, we can hold him or her accountable. third point: a clearer definition of the tasks of olaf staff. the obligation to keep investigations under 12 months and to extend them for a maximum of 6 months. if an investigation lasts longer than 18 months, feedback must be given to the monitoring committee. fourthly: a clear reinforcement of the rights of the defence. fifth: the explicit guarantee of the protection of journalists' sources. sixth , the commission has also proposed that the role of olaf be clarified and that the relationship between olaf and the european parliament and the committee on budgetary control be clarified. seven , please . clear rules on the disclosure of information to the general public. eight: the strengthening of the role of the supervisory committee, including in terms of staff and own composition. they will be experts, appointed for five years with experience of investigations and the judicial world. nine , please . the commission has also proposed a better procedure for the appointment of the director-general. ten , please . enhanced protection of the role of whistleblowers and persons under investigation.
madam president, it is very important that the european union has an efficient and well-established anti-fraud agency. this is all the more so as budgets increase and foreign aid increases, without it being possible to always check that the resources used are being properly used. the public, the taxpayer, often wonders about that, and rightly so, i think. this report contains a number of good proposals and i will therefore approve it, although i think that further consideration should be given to the independence of olaf. olaf is a directorate-general of the european commission. the political responsibility lies with the vice-president of the commission. the agency is independent in terms of its operations and research, but this hybrid status is potentially problematic, to say the least. i am convinced that an independent statute can only increase the agency's effectiveness.
madam president, i voted against the klamt report for the simple reason that the whole concept of economic immigration and the so-called blue card is short-term thinking. we can better implement a policy of training, retraining and activation in the member states for the approximately 20 million unemployed who are now in the european union. we'd better learn from the mistakes of the past. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the people are being persuaded that this is only a matter of highly educated and temporary immigrants, but who am i to doubt the words of louis michel, who says that other immigrants should also be welcome. in other words: the floodgates will remain open. you just create another one. this is about a coalition against society. big business wants cheap labor and works with the multicultural left. the costs are passed on to society.
in writing. the blue card seemed to be a good start for a streamlined migration policy in the european union. i think that a european migration policy is necessary, especially since the european workforce will be reduced by 20 million people by 2050. the commission's proposal, which was already weak, has been greatly weakened by the european parliament. the commission proposal left some room for migration of people without a higher education degree but with strong skills. but parliament has put a stop to this by making the conditions for migration much stricter. the income threshold is set by the european parliament at 1.7 times the average wage in the member state. that's way too high. if we want to compete with the united states and canada, the countries that are now attracting the most highly educated people, we have to make it easier for people to come and work here. the european parliament's demand that migrants have to have five years of work experience, including two years as a 'senior employee', is also unacceptable. it is incomprehensible that this proposal has not been extended to include a migration procedure for all those who can find work here. legal immigration will be possible with the blue card, but as this is certainly not for everyone, i abstained from the vote.
author. - mr president, there are two aspects to the painful problem of the expulsion of the al-kurd family: one political, the other humanitarian. politics is the status of east jerusalem, which is claimed as an integral part of israel by the israelis. it should be remembered that neither the europeans nor the international community have ever heard of it as such. in its resolution 252, the un security council was very clear and stated that all the legislative and administrative measures and measures taken by israel, including the expropriation of land and real estate, which tend to change the legal status of jerusalem, are invalid and cannot change this status. the security council reminded israel of this when it adopted measures in 1980 to make jerusalem its unified capital, and resolution 476 called for an immediate end to the implementation of policies and measures affecting the character and status of the holy city. resolution 478 affirms that all measures taken to change the status of the city are null and void. the un and europe have never reconsidered this point. that is why, despite all the respect that everyone in this house has for the independence of the israeli judiciary, we know that it can only be based on the laws of its own country, which are in contradiction here with international law, and that, moreover, international law does not give it jurisdiction over east jerusalem. the expulsion of the al-kurd family must therefore be seen in this political perspective and cannot be reduced to a dispute over property. the al-kurd family is expelled in favor of a jewish family that has recently immigrated to israel. it is being stripped of its right to property after fighting for it for 40 years now, and some of our parliamentarians who have met it can, better than i can, describe the human tragedy that this expulsion represents. all gone, ashamed, i insist, and i rejoice, we ask that justice be done to him and his property returned to him. (applause) i would like to thank
a small point, mr president, which i would like to see included in the minutes. it is a joint resolution which we have taken the trouble to debate in a very conciliatory manner. everyone had taken steps back. i regret to say that the epp, by means of oral amendments which it is entitled to table and by means of separate votes, is profoundly changing the meaning of the text. i wonder at that moment whether the representatives who compromise are really mandated by their group, and i will take that into account in future negotiations.
i am sorry for the previous speaker, mr president, but the statement that the very great social problems facing the roma can be reduced to discrimination or prejudice, however politically correct it may be, is not true in reality. roma themselves maintain a number of lifestyles that are hardly, if at all, compatible with the basic standards in most european countries. the high unemployment among adults and the shocking absence from school among roma children are not primarily the result of any discrimination. the italian court of cassation ruled last week that begging by gypsies is an integral part of roma culture and therefore should not be prohibited. where are we going, i wonder? i am in favour of a very respectful and humane approach, but also a clear one. if you want to stay in our society, you have to respect the laws and the norms of our society. begging, keeping children out of basic health care, or worse, systematically keeping children out of school, are all the rage in our society.
the rapporteur. - mr president, we asked for the vote to be postponed in plenary and i welcome that, but as rapporteur i have to explain myself. as my colleague mr salafranca has just mentioned, it is true that the foreign affairs committee of parliament voted on 6 november last on two proposals concerning israel's participation in the community programme. the first was a joint opinion and the second a resolution. both votes were taken by a very large majority, and the resolution was even unanimous. what was the content of these texts and what message did the foreign affairs committee want to convey to israel? the content of the consent was positive. he said yes to participation in the community programme, knowing, moreover, that israel was already participating in the seventh framework programme for research, that his request concerned only one programme on innovation and technology, that all the members of the neighbourhood policy, all the states, could claim to participate in it, and that this was in no way a special favour to israel or a revalorisation of its political status. the association agreements are conditional on respect for human rights. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. a report was to be issued annually by the commission to enable parliament to assess compliance with these conditions. in short, it was a positive but firm resolution, negotiated at length with the various parties, who were exemplary in their loyalty to the compromise reached, and i thank them for that. so why are we now hesitating, expressing fears and, finally, postponing the vote? essentially, mr president, because the humanitarian situation in gaza has become untenable. the european parliament delegation i was part of, which visited gaza before the summer, had already been appalled by the living conditions of the gazans. another delegation that visited the occupied territories in november returned with a similar finding. it is not moving, the situation is dramatic and the blockade, far from weakening hamas, is radicalizing it. three days ago, louis michel recalled that the continued closure of the gaza crossing points is a form of collective punishment against palestinian civilians in violation of international humanitarian law. that's what our commissioner says. unrwa, the office that deals with refugees in gaza, is appealing for help, as are oxfam, amnesty international, doctors without borders and so many other ngos that today cannot even cross the erez crossing. today i am hearing that our pegase instrument has completely stopped working in gaza, that it can no longer provide energy, that the payment of salaries and pensions to palestinian authority officials has been suspended, as has the allowance for the poorest. and unrwa also had to suspend its program of assistance to the poorest in gaza. that is not acceptable, mr president, that is not possible, and that is why i, as a defendant, supported the postponement of this vote. at the moment i am speaking to you, the political upgrading of israel is being dealt with at council level with the greatest speed and the greatest opacity. and it is precisely this upgrading that is the opportunity, today, at this very moment, that is appealing in the political context of the region and that has earned us hundreds and hundreds of emails from citizens. so the council must be transparent about the debates that are taking place and be accountable to the european citizens. for parliament today, that is clear. we want humane living conditions for the palestinians and an end to the blockade of gaza. this blockade does not in any way weaken hamas but it does inflict intolerable suffering on innocent people, half of whom voted for fatah in the 2006 elections. the vote is still valid. we are reaching out to israel, but we will not give up the foundation of the values on which the european union is built. the ball is in israel's court today. i take this opportunity and i apologize, mr president, you will take this time out of my next two minutes. i take this opportunity to denounce the political pressure, the smear campaigns and the anti-semitic epithets that are being thrown at members of parliament who today stand for nothing but peace and justice. and i greet all those jewish friends in israel and elsewhere, those newly righteous people who, under extremely difficult conditions, also want peace and demand respect for international law. let us work together in that direction. we must lift the siege of gaza and attack it militarily, which i hear would be sheer folly.
commissioner, representative of the presidency, mr jouyet; as a responsible group we have discussed at length whether or not to vote for the postponement of the vote on both the motion for a resolution and the agreement to the protocol. the views of our group were divided. about fifty-fifty with a slight advantage to vote anyway. so my group voted today on this matter in a split vote. the division is partly due to our great concern about the situation in the middle east and our great concern about the conflict between israel and palestine. i do not know anyone, including myself, i do not know a single person who has visited the occupied territories and who has not returned filled with great anxiety, great compassion and anger at the situation there. the most shocking and disturbing thing is that since the annapolis accords, israeli policy in the occupied territories has only gotten worse, stricter and tougher. we must not be too angry to ask whether israel or some forces within israel, backed by the israeli army, are not creating such irreversible situations within the occupied territories that a two-state solution is unrealizable. i can therefore understand very well why they wanted to send a signal to israel by postponing the vote, because they did not want to give the impression that we would reward the country in a period when things are getting worse day by day, particularly with regard to the more than one million palestinians living in gaza. i hope, mr president, that in the coming weeks and months there will be changes which will enable us to adopt both texts with a greater degree of confidence.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i should like to answer you first, mr verheugen. you have rightly said that we have a special responsibility towards israel. we have collectively taken up this responsibility, and it is important. and it is precisely because we have this responsibility towards israel that we have a responsibility, at least as great, towards the situation of the palestinians today, you will grant me that. mr jouyet, we share the same objectives, and you have rightly listed a whole series of important points which must be solved in the long, medium or short term. you used a very important word when you said - the situation in gaza must be urgently resolved. you used the word "emergency". we've asked for a postponement. we are taking the time to see whether this emergency is being taken into account. you believe it is your right, and i grant you that, that the elevation of the status of israel will make it easier to negotiate with it. i wish i could believe it, but i don't see any prospects, and we've been negotiating for at least a year, since annapolis. so, you know, parliament's resources are very limited. we are using the means we have to send a friendly signal to israel saying - but please, move! -. i have to say that i have not heard from mrs tzipi livni yesterday any indication of this. i wait and hope. i would like to thank mrs hybášková, she was not present when i spoke, i would like to say to mrs hybášková: you have been an exemplary partner, you have been loyal to your commitments, we will be loyal to ours, and i will not allow those colleagues who have questioned the relevance of human rights as the basis of today's decision to let us believe that. this is unacceptable! as for the anti-semitic and other criticisms which i have heard today and which we shall hear, we will inform you of this, but again, it is unworthy of the european parliament! why should we be suspected of manipulating human rights in this european parliament? and if we're right about them being raped somewhere else in this building, there's an emergency. i remain committed to the commitments we have made in foreign affairs with our other political partners. it's still valid for me, but right now, i think, really, the timing is not right. the hand is stretched out to israel. it will remain so, that's quite natural. but our concern for the plight of the palestinians remains whole and burning. (applause) i would like to thank
- i'm the reporter. - the president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, tax fraud, vat fraud, these are crimes. it's crime, white collar crime, but it's crime. crime that sometimes has ties to organized crime. what sums are we talking about, because that's always interesting. commissioner kovács estimated total tax fraud in 2007 at between 2 and 2.5 times the european budget. that is between 200 and 250 billion euros. the share of vat fraud in this is estimated at 40 billion. and all of this is probably a gross underestimation, because the court of auditors estimated the loss of vat revenue in germany in 2005 at eur 17 billion and in the united kingdom at eur 18.2 billion, together slightly more than eur 35 billion in vat revenue missed. it is therefore good that the commission has funded a study, that it is being carried out, that the results will be published, so that we can get a good idea of the true extent of the problem. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. firstly, we must improve cooperation between national tax authorities and secondly, we must really reduce the time taken for the collection and exchange of information by the administrative authorities of the member states, so that the ball can be played really faster. my report analyses in particular the court of auditors' investigation into vat fraud. the court of auditors examined the situation in seven member states: in the united kingdom, france, italy, luxembourg, the netherlands, poland and slovenia, the number of employees is increasing. those countries cooperated well. but germany refused to cooperate. in the meantime, the commission opened infringement proceedings against germany in september. i have to say, commissioner, i support that approach. the court finds that in some member states the essential conditions for effective cooperation in combating this form of fraud are totally lacking. my co-rapporteur pointed out that requests for information are not answered within a period of three months. that's actually vindictive, because actually, this kind of crime-fighting should happen in real time. but the internal organization of countries is also being criticised. the netherlands and germany in particular are lacking in this respect. on top of that, there is a total lack of sufficiently strong control mechanisms. it is a mystery to me, ladies and gentlemen, why member states, although they know they are missing billions in revenue, do not take strong action against this. this is really incomprehensible. the free movement of criminals is a reality. the united europe of the fight against tax evasion is still largely a matter of the future. but there's good news, too. my own member state, belgium, has set up the eurocanet network, the european carousel network, which provides for a spontaneous exchange of data. but there are flaws here too. only 24 member states are cooperating and three large member states, germany, italy and the united kingdom, are not. the ecofin council of 7 october launched a new mechanism, the eurofisc mechanism, to improve cooperation between member states in the fight against vat fraud. i think this is a good initiative, but it will only add value if all the member states participate. and it will only add value if it goes beyond mere intergovernmental cooperation. i really think that the commission should be involved in this new initiative, that it should be able to participate in it and also coordinate the matter. finally, i also believe that there is a need for much greater cooperation in the judicial field. all legal obstacles to crossborder prosecution in national law must be removed. i have listed in my report a catalogue of measures to be taken. i would like to have an answer from the commission, a reaction, and i regret that the council is not present. because in the end it is the council that will have to take action here.
- i'm the reporter. - the proposal for a regulation (com (89) 6 final) on the common organization of the market in bananas; i think that both our reports, the three reports that are available, and the way they have been adopted, show a strong determination in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and in the committee on budgetary control. a determination not to take this lightly. it's a lot of money. imagine if we could recover even a quarter, 25% of that money. then we have a fund of 60 billion euros in the member states and in the european union. we need that money. mr. joy is here. he knows he has important business to attend to. so we know what we're fighting for. we also fight against dishonesty, against injustice. because, if you don't pay your taxes, if you try to avoid them, you're being anti-social. so resolve in this house. i have to tell commissioner michel that i understand your answer. you have your own jurisdiction. you're here to replace someone, and i understand you're reading an answer. that's not a problem. i'll take your text. we'll work with that. i would ask the commission to discuss the fraud scope study, which is due to be completed by the end of the year, not only with the member states but also with the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on budgetary control, so that we can take this and that further.
i can agree with the general objectives, mr president, particularly with regard to the climate plan, namely that we want to achieve a reduction in co2 emissions and reduce dependence on energy imports from outside the european union, but i am also convinced that more realism is needed in the concrete objectives that are being put forward. the main standard for determining the share of renewable energy is the gross domestic product of the member states and not the natural potential to produce that renewable energy. flanders, a future member of the european union, is disadvantaged in this respect: very limited coastline, no potential for reservoirs, little sun, few open spaces, etc. it is not clear how to increase the share of renewable energy from barely 2% to 13% by 2020. the practical implementation of the climate plan will therefore be a very heavy burden for the flemish economy and for flemish consumers, who will also pay higher prices for, among other things, electricity.
in writing. we are at a crossroads in europe's history. we have set ourselves the task of taking the lead in the global fight against global warming. the time has come to make that commitment hard. we understand that our friends in poland, among others, want guarantees that they will not be presented with the heaviest bill of a climate agreement. this is why the eu needs to invest more in new clean coal technologies and in ccs. the agreement reached this week on the limitation of co2 emissions from new cars is being criticised as not going far enough. that criticism is partly justified. but let's not sweep the positive aspects under the carpet. we are starting from 2012, albeit gradually, and we have also kept the target of max 95 grams of co2/km by 2020. fortunately, there are also powerful incentives for electric or hybrid cars. the manufacturers must realize that they stand to gain by resolutely pursuing the eco-friendly car. governments should encourage this conversion much more vigorously through fiscal incentives. and the consumer, all of us: what's stopping us from buying such an eco-friendly car already?! there are already mid-range cars on the market today that are below the 2012 european standard. so, you know...
in writing. i am pleased that mrs grabowska's report is being put to the vote today, firstly because we have been waiting for the revised version of the regulation in question for a long time, and secondly because this vote should allow the text to be adopted while france is still in office, a presidency which has spared no effort to bring it to fruition. as you know, at present in the union, when there is a divorce and there are children, if a spouse has left for another country, it is often difficult and time-consuming to actually get alimony paid. the proposed text, which i support, should make life much easier for european citizens in matters of maintenance obligations and help creditors to recover what they are owed: by abolishing the exequatur, it makes any decision of a court of a member state on an obligation to provide maintenance for an absent spouse immediately applicable in all member states. it will also enable the citizens concerned, from their place of usual residence, to complete the formalities for obtaining salary and bank account attachments, to trigger cooperation mechanisms, to have access to information enabling the debtor to be located and to assess his assets.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the multiannual programme on consumer protection, in the resolution and in the debate on the withdrawal of unsafe toys, mainly chinese, we have made a very strong call for the protection of the smallest and most vulnerable consumers, namely children, to be placed high on the agenda. as rapporteur for the new toy safety act, i am therefore very pleased to announce today that we may be able to bring a new and strict directive on toy safety into force in the first place, at least if everything goes as planned here. i thank the commission for having responded to our call to propose a new directive. i also thank the opinion rapporteurs, the shadow rapporteurs, the president and the colleagues of imco for the excellent cooperation which made it possible to adopt my report unanimously on 6 november. and i thank the council, the commission and all our staff for their efficient work and their constructive attitude, which enabled us to complete this important piece of consumer legislation within ten months. colleagues, we have several reasons to be proud of our work. the safety standards for toys are being improved and tightened, and that is what people expect from us. the use of carcinogens, mutagens and reproductive toxicants in authorized parts of toys is prohibited in principle; the commission has also proposed that the rules on unavoidable traces of heavy metals be tightened, not only by introducing maximum levels for more types of substances, but also by formulating much stricter limits for unavoidable traces of lead, cadmium, mercury, chromium-6 and organic tin. the regulation on allergenic fragrances, which we do not want to expose children to, is also completely new. we are also making this approach stricter than the commission proposal; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. for educational games on smell and taste, we are a little more flexible, provided labelling and consistency with other relevant legislation. it is also important, ladies and gentlemen, to improve the rules against the risk of choking, to clarify the essential safety requirements and, as a completely new rule, to introduce rules on toys in sweets. the system of warnings is also being extended and strengthened and must not only be clearly visible in a language that consumers can understand, but also be visible at the point of sale. finally, we give the precautionary principle its proper place in the law. but of course, all those rules are only valid if they are enforced. we are doing this by integrating the new approach into the new package of goods, by tightening the requirements for dossiers and by introducing traceability requirements. but there are some things that need to be followed up. i therefore ask you, commissioner, on behalf of parliament, to pay particular attention to the way in which the member states exercise their surveillance responsibilities, both within their own countries and at the external borders, when monitoring the directive. for the sake of complete peace of mind, we would also like to hear you confirm your promise that the commission will have new, strict harmonised standards developed for noise standards for toys, both for peak noise and for continuous noise, and we ask the same for books made exclusively of paper and cardboard, for which there is now no legal certainty. finally, mr president, we have clearly not opted for a third party certification system for toys that meets the standards. it has been talked about for a long time, but a majority did not support it. i would also like to ask the commissioner to confirm that this will be explicitly taken into account in the monitoring; we are therefore likely to have the conformity assessment procedures on our table again.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. i would like to address some of the problems that have been raised in this debate. first, the issue of chemicals. the rules we have here cannot be stricter than they have been. a total ban on chemicals is not possible because they occur in nature as trace elements. mrs. breyer, i can't stop you from ignoring the laws of nature. but what you did was irresponsible panicking. i must make this very clear. they give the impression that the european legislator is releasing toxic toys on children. the opposite is true! i strongly object to the implication in your article. we've done something here that's never been done before. the rule, even in this parliament, is that a substance is banned only when it has been shown to be harmful. it's the opposite here. the substances are prohibited and will only be authorized if their safety is proven beyond doubt. i wonder what more can be asked here. i can't do more than what's being done here. if anyone gives the impression that something is being done here which does not sufficiently protect children - i am sorry - he is deliberately misleading the european public. i really wonder why you're doing this. what has been said about noise - that toys should not cause hearing damage - is indeed true. that is why the directive contains rules on this. the limit values, i.e. the decibel values, are set as is customary in european legislation. the toy directive is nothing special. technical rules are established in the course of standardization and standardisation. it's the same here. the decibel values are thus established in the course of standardization. the directive provides the legal basis for this to happen. on the subject of books: this has been a topic in the last few days, and it has surprised me very much. the word "books" does not appear in the text. it changes nothing at all from the existing state of affairs! it seems that some german manufacturer has started a press campaign here and has also been lobbying the european parliament vigorously. not a word of it is true! it does not change the status quo. but the commission is willing, because it is right, as parliament has requested, to ensure that the standards which apply here are improved and modernised. the commission will award contracts. i would like to say this to the tüv group in this house on third party certification: the idea that a toy or any product in europe is safer because it is certified by a third party is unfortunately not justified. the commission has indeed had the results for many years in terms of product safety. there is nothing, nothing, to suggest that third-party certification makes any product safer. we then prescribe it - and this is also a principle of european legislation which this house has been observing for many years - when it is a highly complex product. dear mrs. gebhardt, i'll have to say this: there's a difference in complexity between a high-tech product like a modern car and a teddy bear. i think it's a little bit weird to compare these things. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would urge you not to think that all you have to do is ask a third party to certify it and you have a safe toy. the dangers that actually occur cannot be tackled by certification at all. look at the cases we've been talking about. the difficulties were not in the prototype of the product presented to the third party, but in the supply chain. there were unreliabilities in the manufacturers. no one but the manufacturer of the product is able to guarantee the complete reliability and safety of its supply chain! i urge you not to depart from this principle and not to relieve the manufacturers of products of their full responsibility for the safety of their products! it is not that manufacturers simply have to say 'my product is safe' or 'my toy is safe', they have to be able to document this fully and without gaps at any time when market surveillance so requires. that will and must be checked. the same applies to the importer. these are rules which i believe cannot be made any stricter, because they already ensure maximum effectiveness. but i agree with all those who say that it is very important that the member states take this control seriously and increase the possibilities of market surveillance. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one. i really wonder what the point is in banning fragrances in toys which are allowed in cosmetics intended for children where the product is applied directly to the child's skin. the perfume is allowed, and the toy, so that it does not smell so terrible, it should be forbidden. it doesn't make sense! nevertheless, in this directive we have gone even further than the cosmetics directive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. so i don't see what else we can do here. let me conclude with this: the commission has already announced amendments, and of course the european parliament is entirely free to adopt them. i must point out, however, that we are dealing here with an overall compromise with the council, parliament and the commission, and that the amendment on third party certification announced by mrs gebhardt, for example, will lead to the compromise not being achieved. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. you can't have everything. it is - i repeat - an overall compromise. this overall compromise is balanced, it provides the toy safety that is possible and that we need. i urge you to accept this overall compromise. declaration of the european commission on monitoring of safety aspects (article 47) following the entry into force of the revised toys safety directive, the commission will closely monitor all developments relating to its implementation in order to assess whether it provides for an adequate level of toy safety, notably as regards the application of the conformity assessment procedures as set out in chapter iv. the revised toys safety directive provides for a reporting obligation of member states on the situation concerning the safety of toys, the effectiveness of the directive and market surveillance carried out by member states. the commission's evaluation will be based inter alia on the member states' reports to be submitted three years after the date of application of the directive with a particular focus on market surveillance in the european union and its external borders. the commission will report back to the european parliament at the latest one year after submission of member states' reports. declaration of the european commission on the requirements concerning toys which are designed to emit a sound (annex ii.i.10) based on the new essential safety requirement for toys which are designed to emit a sound under the toys safety directive, the commission will mandate cen to establish a revised standard which limits the peak values for both impulse noise and prolonged noise emitted by toys in order to adequately protect children from the risk of hearing impairment. declaration of the european commission on the classification of books (annex i. 17) taking into account the difficulties related to the relevant tests required in the harmonised toy standards en 71:1 for books made of cardboard and paper, the commission will mandate cen to establish a revised standard which covers adequate testing for children's books.
- i'm the reporter. president. - ladies and gentlemen, commission president, representative of the french presidency, i would like to thank everyone for their contributions and to express my satisfaction at the attitude adopted by our interlocutors, the other political institutions. i would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not just a compromise in which the european parliament has had to make a lot of concessions. we've won our case on almost every major issue. we have been able to reach good agreements with the commission and the council. we have been able to persuade the other institutions on many points to accept our very strict proposals and go a long way beyond what was originally envisaged in the commission's proposal. i am therefore very happy to be able to say that we have reached such an agreement. commissioner, i have also listened to your statements. i have heard you say that you consider market surveillance to be very important and i can assume that in the monitoring process the commission will pay extra attention to the way in which member states fulfil their mandate, in particular market surveillance. i also heard your statement on the conformity assessment procedures. we can of course also take into account in the monitoring process what needs to be taken into account. but it is true that third party certification does not offer much more certainty and that the problems lie in other areas than the nature of the type of model which is the basis for the further production chain. i also heard you say, commissioner, that you want to regulate noise standards further, to refine them through standardization, and the same applies to books, which are also regulated by standards and that should be looked at in terms of how to give more legal certainty. i think that we as a parliament can only be happy to have had such good contacts with the other institutions, and that may well be a wonderful christmas present for european families: from now on, safe toys, even safer toys.
mr president, mr minister, this presidency will be a landmark. it is no small feat to make europe speak with one voice, but in the field of human rights you have disappointed and shocked. the last point concerns the political upgrading of israel, which was carried out very quickly in the council. but you know that in gaza, even european aid is no longer reaching. you know commissioner michel talks about collective punishment. hundreds of e-mails have reached the european parliament urging it to make upgrading conditional on compliance with international law. we postpone our vote and you, what do you do? you force the unconditional "yes", arguing that this will give us more influence over israel. but i dream! since july, israel has had an agreement in principle and, moreover, the vice-presidency of the union for the mediterranean. but did it freeze settlements, reduce checkpoints or loosen the gaza bottleneck? no, i'm not going. so, to give mrs livni an electoral boost, you are sweeping away human rights and comforting those on the ground, on both sides, who believe that only crime and violence pay, and seek confrontation. it is no longer real politics, mr minister, it is blindness or unacceptable cynicism.
president, the target of 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 has been met. but let's face it, that goal was actually understated. science tells us we have to go to -25, -40%. i regret that the auction system has been eroded in the non-electricity sector. in 2020, we'll still be giving out 30% free allowances, and the 100% auction won't happen until 2027. this is a really bad signal to those who have to negotiate the global climate agreement in copenhagen, and that is when the best answer to carbon leakage is actually a global agreement. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the directive. less revenue from auctioning rights means less investment in renewable energy, less investment in research and development. i would ask the rapporteur: madam rapporteur, mrs doyle, do you have any idea what the expected lower yield from the auction will be, now that this system has been totally eroded?
in writing. i was at a clean mobility conference at a university in limburg this morning. the conference was focused on electric cars. it is clear that the time has come to switch to this environmentally friendly technology. the age of fossil fuels is coming to an end. the current crisis in the automotive sector also offers opportunities to fully embark on this new path. in exchange for the government support and guarantees, manufacturers will have to invest much more heavily in this technology of the future, in affordable batteries with a wider range of action, in other words. and the government must now support that revolution much more resolutely, including fiscal support. since 2005, the european commission has been proposing to reform the car tax in a coordinated way in a european context. that proposal must be put back on the table of the ministers. the car tax should be reoriented on the basis of emission criteria. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the member states are not able to meet the requirements of the directive. it's time for a radical change. the engineers have finished their work. the government must now push the car manufacturers further and quickly in the right direction.
i have long held the view, mr president, that europe should not be a mere piece of cake, and i think that we in this parliament must first learn to accept that not everything has to be regulated at european level and that there are many local and national rules and practices which we should respect, including those relating to the protection of workers and to the rules on health and safety at work and working time. what is important to me is that it should be the member states who decide on it, and that in my view all aspects of employment law should remain the exclusive competence of the member states; the commission and the european court of justice are best able to avoid this. that is what subsidiarity is all about and we all say we are in favour of it. in this respect, i am absolutely opposed to the abolition of the so-called opt-out possibilities, and i believe that it is up to the member states themselves and even the länder themselves to decide whether or not to work on sundays.
in writing. − i agreed to the report on the climate package because it includes different directives, all of which are in line with the eu's target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 and even by 30% if an international agreement is reached. it is the result of long negotiations and a joint compromise between parliament and the council, representing the 27 member states. one of the directives concerns renewable energy. it includes the objective of increasing the share of renewable energy sources to 20% and increasing energy efficiency by 20%. the aim is to achieve 10% of fuel consumption from renewable energy sources. sustainability criteria have been defined to facilitate their application. i welcome this regulation because it not only reduces europe's energy dependence and creates new jobs but also encourages innovation in technological development. the directive, which relates to the european emissions trading scheme (ets), modernises the existing emissions trading scheme and requires that emissions allowances previously free of charge are now auctioned by industry. exceptions in the form of transitional periods are made for eastern european countries, which initially have to purchase allowances for only 30% of their emissions. the commission has also proposed incentives for energy efficiency, which are not tied to a specific purpose but require member states to invest at least half of their revenues in developing countries and new technologies. i am in favour of a successful balance between taking account of the industries facing difficult problems and an ambitious environmental policy. another directive regulates the fair burden sharing of emissions not covered by the ets. this includes heating and air conditioning and many economic sectors (transport, small industrial plants, services and agriculture) which, although not covered by the ets, are nonetheless significant contributors to greenhouse gas emissions. the commission will also be able to use the existing instruments to support the implementation of the new rules. the carbon capture and storage (ccs) directive makes it possible to separate co2 from the exhaust gas and then store it underground. the aim is to finance 12 ccs power stations by 2015. i do recognise that co2 capture and storage is an essential transitional technology, but that particular attention should be paid to the safety of storage. in addition, regulations have been introduced within another directive which provides for limit values for co2 emissions from new cars. from 2015, the average co2 emissions of each new car will be reduced to 120 grams per kilometre and from 2020 to 95 grams per kilometre. the penalties for non-compliance with the limit values have been reduced compared to the commission proposal due to the economic crisis and amount to between eur 5 and eur 95, depending on the quantity exceeded. however, from 2019 onwards, the fines should be eur 95 for the first gram of co2 exceeded. i am in favour of the compromise reached between the european institutions, because criticism is often an easy thing to do, but finding compromises is a challenge. the arrangements agreed are the successful outcome of negotiations between countries which, although economically very different, nevertheless share a common objective. the fact that the new member states in particular are unable to achieve all the objectives in the short term without destroying entire sectors of the economy and facing a social catastrophe cannot be ignored when looking at the european objective as a whole. i see the climate package not only as an important step, but as a leap forward that will counter the progress of climate change and strengthen europe's leadership on the path to an efficient energy policy. europe has succeeded in speaking with one voice, and this will make it possible to make stronger demands at international level as well. the major challenge is to avoid environmental dumping at international level. for this reason, countries that do not comply with the kyoto protocol and are therefore not bound by the co2 standards should be subject to an import tax or similar measures to counter environmental dumping. this is an aspect that should be taken into account in the successor agreement to the kyoto protocol within the un climate change conference, which will be negotiated in december 2009 by the us, china and india, among others. the climate package has provided a solid basis for the conclusion of a new international agreement.
in writing. - i voted with great conviction in favour of the compromise reached on renewable energy sources. my green colleague and rapporteur, claude turmes, has done a splendid job. his work and that of the whole parliament is ensuring that a strong legislative framework is in place to ensure that the total share of renewable energy is at least 20% by 2020. this is not a hype. this is a real energy revolution and it's going to create a massive number of jobs. some reports speak of over 2 million jobs. jobs for highly skilled engineers, designers and technicians, but also a majority of jobs for technicians, people who make wheels, install solar panels, build wind farms. the negotiations also led to the adaptation of the original proposals on agro- or biofuels. we greens are not very happy with this kind of technology and we are putting strict conditions on the use of this kind of fuel. the turmes report clearly strengthens the sustainability criteria and also refers to social criteria within the framework of the international labour organisation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i voted against the compromise reached. this does not diminish my appreciation of the work done by mr satu hassi in this respect. but the agreement which can ensure that almost 80% of all efforts are made in third countries is intolerable to me. a quick calculation shows that this will enable belgium to achieve between 50 and 60 per cent of the necessary effort outside the european union. it covers important sectors such as buildings and transport. it is economically absurd to invest many millions of euros abroad through the clean development mechanism when you as a country have to make significant efforts to properly insulate your own buildings or design a transport policy aimed at more low-carbon mobility. moreover, there is no guarantee that the projects in which foreign investment is made are of high quality. worse still, there is no certainty that the investments made through the cdm are really complementary or additive. it is also unethical to buy the easiest efforts in third countries. this is a form of neo-colonialism and it complicates the position of those third countries which will have to make additional and more costly efforts in a subsequent phase.
in writing. - i voted against the compromise in the sacconi report on co2 emissions from cars. this is a disgraceful dossier in which the car manufacturers are once again evading the obligation to build cars which consume less energy and pollute less. this case has been dragging on for over 10 years. first, time was bought by concluding a voluntary agreement. it was not respected. today's agreement will buy time once again. the fines are ridiculously low. a standard of 95 grams of co2 emissions/km is envisaged by 1 january 2020. in 1996, industry agreed to a maximum emission of 140 grams in 2008. the reality is: we're now at an average emission of 162 grams. the truth is, short-term thinking always works. we would rather continue to pay large sums of money to corrupt or undemocratic regimes than invest in green innovation technology. the argument that the economic crisis is making us do this is a fallacy. the automobile industry has no future unless it chooses energy-efficient and non-polluting vehicles. if she is in trouble now, it is largely because of her own mistakes and shortsighted choices in the past.
in writing. - the working time system is at the heart of social europe. it balances the protection of workers against a flexible organization of work. the council of ministers is focusing on flexibility. it is unacceptable that in member states which opt out, employers negotiate longer working hours, even up to 65 hours a week. this derogation should expire three years after its entry into force. what is the use of collective agreements on health and safety at work if member states are to enforce them? an average working week of 48 hours, calculated over a year, provides more than enough room to cover peak times and still respect the necessary rest periods. by raising this average, you give employers a free pass to stop paying overtime. it is also absurd to exclude sleeping on duty from working time. whoever is on guard is on standby and that must be respected. just as rest periods must be respected. tired workers can endanger themselves and others. working should not be at the expense of a quality life! we have sent a strong signal to the council today. the conciliation procedure which is now under way must lead to a more social europe.
in writing. - i supported the report on the crossborder enforcement of road safety rules because these rules make it more effective to prosecute drivers who commit road traffic offences in a third country. the commission has found that road traffic offences are often not prosecuted when they are committed with a vehicle registered in a member state other than the one where the offence is committed. this is accompanied by the tendency of many motorists to drive more recklessly in third countries than in their country of origin, because they are less afraid of prosecution for the offences. the new directive is designed to counteract this trend. the electronic data exchange and data protection provisions of the directive ensure efficient cooperation between countries, which makes it possible to prosecute road traffic offences as if they had been committed in one's own country. the directive is limited to the prosecution of the four traffic offences which account for 75% of all serious and fatal road accidents. the commission proposes that the speed limit be increased to cover speeding, driving under the influence of alcohol, not wearing a seatbelt and running a red stop light. however, two years after the entry into force of the directive, a review by the commission is to take place, which may then lead to other offences being taken into account, if appropriate. i support the directive and consider it an important step not only to promote road safety but also to give europe the opportunity to grow even more as a large area of mobility.
author. - madam president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, today is the last debate of this parliament on the progress made in the european area of freedom, security and justice. i have forwarded to the commission and the council presidency the content of the oral question on this subject and i shall not spend the few minutes i have paraphrasing it. madam president, at this time when the city of strasbourg invites us to celebrate the christmas holidays with pomp, i would like to take this opportunity to distribute some presents. the first gift i would like to give is to the french presidency of the council. not because of the permanence of its presence or its punctuality, but, on the whole, because of the quality of the preparation that the presidency has put at the service of contacts with parliament, for the control it has shown and, in particular, for the eminent assistants of the ministers who took part in the delicate negotiations with the european parliament. i would like to thank in particular mr jean-pierre jouyet, whose friendliness, professionalism and competence have been unanimously appreciated by this house. my second gift, i want to address to mr. jacques barrot. this is a vice-president of the commission who was perfectly comfortable in his previous responsibility and who, at the request of his president, and in order to avoid serious political setbacks for the commission which would have resulted from the replacement of mr frattini, has agreed to take over one of the most heavy and sensitive portfolios of all those in the commission. commissioner, dear jacques, in less than a year you have not only mastered a particularly complex subject but have also made your mark, as the proposals we have just received on the new guidelines for asylum policy show. my third gift is to my colleagues, most of whom are great professionals who are passionate about their work, some of whom are real workaholics, and some of whom - we must admit - have a great character which inspires in me and in others as much respect as affection. my last gift is to our collaborators, both those in the secretariat - emilio de capitani is here, who does not listen - and those in the political groups, the assistants of each of us, whose zeal, dedication and competence are an essential part of the success of our work. the gifts thus distributed, i come to the balance. no one can deny, madam president, that in less than ten years the european area of freedom, security and justice has developed considerably. from a totally embryonic stage in 1999 - i recall that the ambition of the tampere programme was first of all to lay the foundations for cooperation between the member states and to promote the mutual recognition of judicial decisions - the jls sector has undergone a new development on the occasion of the hague programme which has strengthened the community base. it is on this double basis and under the pressure of dramatic external events - i will not speak of the attacks which have caused us so much concern and caused so many deaths and misery - that many policies have made spectacular progress: the fight against terrorism and serious crime, the fight against illegal immigration, the fight against racism and xenophobia, the fight against drugs and drug addiction. and it is not a bad thing to say of all of us - council, commission, parliament - that over the last ten years our approach has been driven primarily - i do not say exclusively - by a defensive reflex dictated both by the dramatic events i have just mentioned and by the legitimate expectations of our people for security. in recent times, however, another approach has gradually emerged, one that is less defensive and driven by a desire for a more positive, more voluntary approach to the space we want to create together. the lisbon treaty, as you know, provided for the charter of fundamental rights to be made binding. it was therefore decided to transform the vienna observatory into the fundamental rights agency. the pact on immigration and asylum, while not neglecting defence and security requirements, has thus paved the way for a more open policy, focusing on active management of migration flows and progress in partnership. i would now like to come to the challenge we are going to have to face together and the new guidelines which should inspire the stockholm programme, which i fervently hope will be able to be implemented on the basis of the lisbon treaty which will finally be ratified. since i won't have time, i'll draw only one conclusion. it is not our fears or the fears of our fellow citizens that should be our guides. what must guide us are first of all our values, which must be backed up by objective analyses of the risks we have to face. i hope that we will draft the stockholm programme in this spirit and that we will all work together to achieve it.
mr president, we do not talk about ropes in the house of the hanged man. the european union's report on human rights is all about self-congratulating ourselves on how sincerely europe has dealt with human rights violations everywhere in the world. but there 's no way around it . the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the palestinian people are respected and that the palestinian people are protected. in particular - and this has been said here before, even by colleagues on the left - would the european parliament not even bother to sweep its own door? because in less than two months we have seen in our own house that this parliament is violating the freedom of expression which it so vigorously seeks to defend in every corner of the world - from antarctica to the amazon and from abu ghraib to harare - in its own house. my colleague frank vanhecke, as the editor in charge of a local publication in flanders, being prosecuted by the belgian government and its politically appointed judges for an opinion crime, was not even given the chance to defend himself in this parliament when it decided last month to lift his political immunity. and today, on the day we celebrate the sakharov prize, the film fitna by geert wilders, who was threatened with death by the islamic fanatics in the netherlands, is being banned in this european parliament by order of the conference of presidents. long live the freedom of speech! but apparently not in this parliament.
president of the council. - mr president, madam president, i would first of all like to stress the importance which the council attaches to the fight against fraud and the protection of the financial interests of the european union. the council considers that the regulations relating to the european anti-fraud office must not only be adapted to the needs but also be consistent. in this context, it is worth recalling the council's call, launched in 2007, for a consolidated legal instrument covering the various aspects of olaf's activity, which would bring the clarity that everyone wants. the council took note of the amendments adopted by parliament on 20 november last concerning the amendment of the regulation on olaf investigations, as well as of the previous discussions in the committee on budgetary control on this matter. the council also took note of point 44 of the european parliament's resolution of 23 october 2008 accompanying its first reading of the 2009 budget, which touches on the same point. the question of the timetable for the council's work was already raised by my colleague eric woerth, president of the ecofin budget council, at the budgetary trilogue on 13 november and at the consultation meeting with the european parliament on 21 november. at this trilogue, in response to the council's concerns which i believe are also shared by the european parliament, the commission announced that it would present a working document on the consolidation of olaf legislation early next year. i can therefore very readily reiterate what the council has already indicated during the trilogue of 13 november and the conciliation meeting of 21 november, namely that the council will examine diligently and with the greatest attention the outcome of the european parliament's work on the proposal to amend regulation no 1073/1999, as well as the forthcoming commission working document. i hope i shall have the opportunity to take the floor again to answer any comments you may have if they come before 6 p.m. i apologize in advance for having to leave you at this hour.
president. - mr president-in-office, i have listened to your reply with great attention. you say, "yes, we will look at these proposals with the greatest vigilance, avec la plus grande attention". i am afraid that answer is not sufficient for us. we did our homework. we have adopted mrs gräßle's report at first reading. we did that because there are loopholes in the current legislation. we have tried to remedy those shortcomings and mr bösch is quite right to say that there are a number of challenges. we have very recently approved the report on vat fraud. there is a tax fraud in the european union of between 200 and 250 billion euros. so we need good legislation. both you, mr president-in-office, and the council as a whole must do your job. i would ask you to be a little more specific about the timetables which the council wishes to adhere to in this matter. that is absolutely necessary.
i had the honour, mr president, of drawing up an opinion on frontex on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, but that opinion was rejected by a slim majority because the left did not want to accept that the problems with libya and turkey were explicitly mentioned in the text. i was therefore surprised and pleased to see that the libe committee had finally incorporated my concerns into the text. libya is a major transit country for illegal immigration to europe; turkey is also a supplier of immigrants. it is therefore essential that these countries and their border control authorities cooperate fully with frontex. this is also true of readmission agreements. turkey has refused to cooperate for years. turkey refuses to sign an agreement and, moreover, does not make any effort to ensure that its borders with europe are effectively guarded. we should expect something different from a country which wants to join the european union. it is appalling that the commission and the council have failed to point out turkey's responsibilities. frontex and eurosur are essential instruments in the fight against illegal immigration. they could also be used to combat crossborder crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking and arms trafficking. without an efficient management of the common external borders, schengen cannot work, and we should not even think of a common immigration policy. it is not just a question of resources, but also and above all of political will. and when i hear about fort europa, i am sad to say that there is no fort europa. that there is more of a seven europe at the moment.
president, as i am by nature very critical of the functioning and institutions of the european union, i have naturally not approved this report on the 2009 budget. first of all, i am not at all convinced that the european institutions are sparing and responsible in the use of the large amounts of taxpayers' money that they spend. secondly, i think that we are interfering in far too many policy areas and that the subsidies we give to the member states are always regarded as a kind of 'far from home' european money and are therefore poorly and inefficiently managed by the member states themselves. i also note that my parliamentary questions on the operating costs of the many subsidiary organisations and agencies of the european union are not or hardly answered. all this makes me suspicious and only confirms my vote against this budget.
i voted in favour of the resolution on olaf, mr president, because i fully agree with parliament's call for greater independence for olaf. it is indeed urgent that something be done about it. olaf is at present, after all, little more than a directorate-general of the commission, and the political responsibility for it lies with the vice-president of the commission. that's not a healthy thing to do. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new regulation on the control of the use of the financial system by the member states. so, we're in agreement. more generally, i think that the european institutions very often manage the large sums of taxpayers' money in a sloppy way. at the very least, olaf must have the resources, the manpower and the responsibility to put an end to the manifestly criminal aspects of this situation. i am afraid we will have to put an end to the more legalistic use of taxpayers' money.
i voted in favour of this surprisingly good report on frontex because i can only applaud the strengthening of this institution that it calls for. i believe that the fight against illegal immigration must be a top priority for the union, and in this context the agreements concluded by frontex with the authorities of third countries are very important. it is good that this report calls a cat a cat and that it criticises in particular the unacceptable attitude of the applicant country, turkey. i think it should be made very clear that the active refusal of the authorities of a third country, turkey - a fortiori a candidate country - to cooperate in frontex must have direct consequences for the political and economic relations between the union and that country, namely the suspension of the accession negotiations with the non-european country turkey.
i voted for the moreno sánchez report with some reservations. i have to say that i did not have very high expectations of the report, given the political correctness which normally prevails in the libe committee. but i must say that this is a balanced report, which also addresses a few pain points, such as the lack of cooperation - or rather, the opposition - of third countries such as libya and turkey. it is a shame that a candidate country should fail to meet its obligations in such a flagrant manner, especially in the case of turkey. frontex - and here the report is actually lacking - must be developed into an effective instrument in the fight against illegal immigration, but also in the fight against international crime, drug trafficking and arms trafficking.
i voted in favour of the susta report, mr president, because of course counterfeiting is a serious problem and the text presented is a matter of common sense. i also agree with paragraph 30 of the report, which states that 'turkey will only be a credible candidate for accession if it is able to take over the acquis communautaire and ensure full respect for intellectual property rights'. the only conclusion to be drawn from this is that turkey is not a full-fledged candidate for eu membership, and i take note of that.
in writing. toys should be safer than other products, because children are very vulnerable consumers. however, dangerous toys still exist in the union. it is therefore welcome that parliament and the council have reached a compromise on a text which sets out a whole series of safety criteria for the industry to meet before a toy can be placed on the european market. as with many compromises, this text has had its share of successes and disappointments. as regards the advances, i would mention in particular the requirement for manufacturers to guarantee that their toys do not have any harmful effect on health or safety, the strengthening of the limit values for toxic metals, better prevention of suffocation and strangulation by small detachable parts, and the clarification of the instructions on the packaging or on the toys themselves. these advances justify my vote in favour of the final text. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens, mutagens and toxins. i voted for this provision, but it was not adopted, and i regret that.
in writing. − with this new safe toys law we are taking a step in the right direction, but we are leaving some opportunities open. that is why i did not support the report. the use of certain allergenic fragrances and certain chemicals, which are carcinogenic, mutagenic or harmful to, among other things, reproduction, is restricted. the use of these substances is not, however, completely prohibited, but only gradually phased out. there are also no binding standards for noise-producing toys. the positive aspect is that importers of toys are legally treated in the same way as producers. the directive provides for a half-hearted control of safety standards for toys. because manufacturers have to guarantee safety themselves. the directive does require member states to carry out sampling, but there are fears that this is too unconstrained. the safety monitoring is arbitrary and to date there is no real european quality label that allows parents to make well-documented decisions and thus avoid toys that may be harmful to the health of their children. mandatory certification by independent bodies could solve this problem. both the us and china take product safety very seriously and recently passed legislation mandating these checks. why is europe being left behind in this?
