mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the harmonization of social legislation and the coordination of social security schemes between the member states of the european union are of key importance for a united europe where freedom of movement is one of our fundamental values. it is necessary for anyone wishing to work in the countries of the european union to be well aware of their rights and obligations, just as it is necessary for the member states to protect the social rights of their citizens and to ensure the most favourable working and living conditions for them. the social security status of citizens working in the countries of the european union has a direct impact on the community's welfare and economic performance. in bulgaria, as one of the new member states of the european union, the subject of social security is of particular relevance. i believe that harmonising social security schemes at european level will provide clearer and simpler rules for european citizens. i support mr őry's report and i urge you to vote in favour of it.
i cannot help but say, mr president, mr barroso, mr janša, that the slovenian presidency is a very important sign for european citizens, and especially for those in central and eastern europe. slovenia has a chance to give all of them the confidence that they are truly equal participants in the european process. we know slovenia as a country that has quietly, persistently and consistently tackled the big issues of transition and today is rightly called the 'eastern european champion'. this was made possible by the political consensus in the country. we expect that from the slovenian presidency: without fanfare and big promises, it will be able to move forward with the implementation of key issues for the future of the european union outlined in the programme presented. you have every chance of achieving this because in the discussion today there is a political and institutional consensus in your favour. i think that the slovenian presidency is timely, especially in view of the challenges associated with the western balkans. the historical and political experience of slovenia will enable the european union to be more effective in its policy towards these countries. they need a new impetus to continue reforms and accelerate their path to the european union. a fully achievable goal, proven in practice by slovenia a former constituent republic of yugoslavia. i believe that through slovenia, the european union will speak a more understandable language to many of the western balkan peoples. both literally and figuratively. i cannot help but notice that for the first time the council will be speaking in a slavic language. i think that no one else could have handled the kosovo problem more successfully than slovenia. the risks facing the entire region are enormous, so our expectations of you, mr. janša, are high. we expect you to succeed in preserving the unity of the european union, both in the decision on the status of the province and in the commitment of the union in the difficult period afterwards. mr janša, it is important for us socialists that slovenia's presidency be a success and we will not just be observing from the sidelines, but will actually support your efforts according to our capabilities and powers to implement the programme outlined. i wish you success in proving that a small country can be a great one in europe.
mr president, the tragic death of benazir bhutto has left us a legacy, and that is an important legacy: to believe in what she believed in, and this was the power of the pakistani people to rule by democracy. in a recent poll as early as november of last year, 70% of people in pakistan confirmed that they wanted all the restrictions lifted on political rallies; that they were against the banning of political events and opposed the detention of the supreme court chief justice. this is the silent majority of pakistanis who want to live in peace and democracy, and if we are looking for stability in such a volatile country, we can only find it through a political process of reconciliation and democracy. i welcome the commission’s appeal to send an observer mission to this election but i have two questions for the commissioner: one is, we have heard various reports of voting lists being destroyed around the country and how can an election take place in this environment? secondly, president musharraf has also banned independent exit polls on this election. i press on the commission to make a very strong case before the pakistani authorities to allow independent confirmation of the results of this election.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak so that the real state of affairs can be heard in this chamber and that the hypocritical talk can be stopped for a moment. what do we know from the discussion so far? we understand your concern for the roma population in europe, which includes my homeland of bulgaria. it doesn't cross my mind to think that right now you're concerned about the extremely low pensions of pensioners in bulgaria or about the honest, hardworking bulgarians who are daily victims of roma crime. members of parliament, please be concerned that the bulgarian socialist party regularly buys gypsy votes in bulgarian elections. make sure that the coalition partner of the bulgarian socialists, the movement for rights and freedoms, which is represented here in the alde group, buys all the other votes. it's also gypsy. make sure that the chairman of the movement for rights and freedoms, ahmed dogan, calls the buying of votes, of gypsy votes, "normal european practice". make sure that in bulgaria the roma population is 3-4% and the crimes they commit are 30-40% of all crimes. and these are not just crimes of poverty, committed by poverty. these are extremely brazen and brutal crimes. because raping and murdering a 79-year-old woman is not a crime of poverty. you're okay with that, right? the huge sums that are being spent, it's clear that those sums are not working. that funding doesn't work because those funds are going to shady foundations and shady ngos. we, the patriots of ataka, believe that the solution to this problem is to obey all the laws in each and every country. the observance of the law without tolerating a minority will lead to success. because in bulgaria, crimes committed by gypsies are not investigated in detail. that's a fact. a fact and you can see that. the murder of the belnayski sisters was never investigated. it was covered up. these are the things we should be worried about. because tolerating a minority at the expense of the majority will not lead to success, quite the opposite. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. − madam president, may i say that i will be slightly longer, because i am answering on two reports. they are two excellent reports that bring to our agenda today, on the one hand, the complex area of the neighbourhood policy and, on the other hand, the question of the black sea region. reading the reports has indeed reinforced my conviction that, while bilateral differentiated relations remain the cornerstone of the european neighbourhood policy (enp), many of the challenges and opportunities before us require, i think, a response at subregional or regional level, as we have already said. now let me speak first on the south caucasus region. we concur with most of the opinions contained in the very good report on the south caucasus. the inclusion of armenia, azerbaijan and georgia in our neighbourhood policy will, step by step, bring all three of them closer to the european union on the basis of shared european values. the commission will publish in spring its progress reports on the implementation of the three enp action plans, providing an update on the current state of play in our joint undertaking. we know that much remains to be done. compliance with democracy, human rights and the rule of law is still fragile and needs improvement. today, for instance, i had an exchange of views about these countries with mr hammarberg, commissioner for human rights at the council of europe. we remain concerned about human rights and media freedom in azerbaijan. recent political events in georgia show that the freedom of expression of political views through the media is essential for stability and, for instance, despite progress in armenia, further efforts are needed to fight corruption and fully comply with human rights standards. notwithstanding rapid economic growth, poverty is still widespread in the region and we continue to promote economic reforms, steps to improve the business climate but also to strengthen the rule of law. and i also agree with the need stressed in ms polfer’s report for more regional cooperation activities, in particular in the areas of energy, transport and the environment. it is our hope that the european union will be able to take a more courageous and more proactive stance in supporting conflict settlement in the region. as mentioned in the recent enp communication, the european union could provide even more help by working around the conflict issues by tackling the underlying causes and, indeed, by building trust on both sides of the boundary lines. as stressed in the report, concrete steps undertaken by the commission to spread aid and information can at least serve these purposes. addressing the challenges i have briefly described remains, therefore, a main priority of my commission for the south caucasus in the coming months. to do this, we will continue to employ the whole range of appropriate eu financial assistance programmes. the upgrading of our delegation in armenia and the opening of a delegation in azerbaijan in early 2008 will certainly also allow us to increase visibility and operate more efficiently. let me make a special comment on the present presidential elections in georgia. as you know, the international election observation mission, to which the european parliament has contributed, has confirmed that the elections were, overall, in line with osce and council of europe standards. however, the international election observation mission has identified several irregularities and shortcomings. and the most urgent task now is to address these problems: to investigate all electoral complaints and to create the proper conditions for the upcoming legislative elections. we stand ready to continue supporting georgia in carrying out these duties in a speedy and in a thorough way. regarding the black sea, i find myself in agreement with much of the report on a black sea regional policy approach as well. it provides valuable political impetus for our april communication on black sea synergy and i think it is significant that, after the council conclusions last may and the present discussion in the european parliament, all the key eu institutions will have reaffirmed the need to implement a regional and a comprehensive approach to our policies applied in the black sea region. the timing of parliament’s report is very appropriate. as a result of our initiative, eu foreign ministers will meet in less than one month’s time in kiev with their black sea counterparts at a black sea synergy meeting. i will, of course, personally attend this meeting. international and black sea regional organisations will also participate and we look forward to discussions that would welcome and endorse increased eu support to black sea regional cooperation and determine the priority areas for coordinated action. let me mention just a few of those. the commission promotes a black sea dialogue on energy security, making use of the inogate structure. we continue to encourage legal and regulatory harmonisation through the baku process. our intention is to carry on working closely with our partners in the construction of new energy infrastructure, developing a trans-black sea energy corridor. and black sea cooperation will improve coordination between traceca, the pan-european transport access programme, and the transport programmes of our partners. we are also about to initiate a regional dialogue on black sea maritime policies and the establishment of regional fisheries coordination. the commission is working on strengthening the black sea-danube connection and we intend to join the black sea commission, which deals with environmental tasks. so the commission has been developing some proposals for regional schemes to combat climate change and we have also begun the implementation of our black sea cross-border cooperation programme focusing on civil society and on local authorities. there are a number of proposals under discussion with our black sea partners in the areas of the fight against organised crime, trade and culture, and we have developed contacts with black sea regional organisations, notably with the organisation of the black sea economic cooperation. concerning the funding for black sea synergy, cofinancing will be the main rule. the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument will certainly be at the heart of the eu’s financial contribution, but other eu instruments, including thematic ones and the instrument for pre-accession assistance, in the case of turkey, will be used as well. the kiev ministerial meeting will provide a forum to discuss and bring forward and coordinate eu initiatives with ideas coming from our partners. and it is our expectation that the black sea regional context will open up a new space for cooperation based on equal partnership with all eastern enp countries and important partners like russia and turkey. our engagement in the black sea region can develop into a long-term endeavour with clear potential to enhance stability, progress and prosperity in the whole region, and parliament’s support is extremely important for that success.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the inta committee. - mrs the chair, madam commissioner, colleagues, the committee on international trade welcomes the european commission and the rapporteur for the timeliness and balanced approach to the black sea and the region. the black sea is a border of the european union, a geostrategic crossroads and transit region, an area of cooperation in the fields of trade, fisheries, tourism, shipping, a strategic area in european energy policy. the committee on international trade calls for better coordination of cooperation through a stand-alone black sea strategy and draws attention to the union's participation in infrastructure projects related to the transport of energy resources. it is important to promote investment in environmental protection, risk prevention, disaster response and rescue in the event of accidents such as those in kerch and the shipwreck of the bulgarian vessel vanessa. in order to ensure open procedures and high standards in the region, the european parliament should include the burgas-alexandropolis pipeline among the other gas and oil transport networks, as it involves eu member states. a salute to the european union for the responsibility it takes on the black sea challenge and the responsibility it has towards the people who live in this region.
madam president, madam commissioner, i cannot help but return to what our british colleague said a moment ago. if at the cost of the uk's rib we could solve the problems of human trafficking, energy independence, black sea security, i don't think we would find a new member state that wouldn't give up a billion euros of its own funds to solve these problems. ladies and gentlemen, mrs anastase's report has one main message, and that is that europe needs a black sea policy in the same way as it has a northern dimension and a mediterranean policy. in 2007, the european commission came out with its communication, and now we have the report of the european parliament. i would remind honourable members that at the end of last year we called on the european commission, in its 2008 annual programme, to come forward with concrete proposals for projects and programmes implementing these policies. so let 2008 be the year of action in the black sea. when we talk about europe's energy problems, i want to say that this report contains a very important message: the black sea is of strategic importance for europe because it can serve to increase its energy dependence on one source, as well as it can serve to diversify sources...sources and energy independence. our report calls for the latter. and i say to all of you: let us not allow europe and individual countries in the european union to become more dependent on one or another source of energy. the report contains a very important message for our neighbours and i will quote it in english. relations in the black sea region should be based on: "mutual respect, territorial integrity, non-interference in each other's internal affairs and the prohibition of the use of force or threat of the use of force. ' i hope that the european commission and the presidency will be able to defend this message to our partners across the black sea as the basis of the policy we will pursue in the region and as a call for them to pursue the same policy towards the countries that have gained their independence on the black sea coast. thank you, sir.
my dear mrs. president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my satisfaction that the two reports on the black sea and the south caucasus were prepared and discussed in the committee on foreign affairs and security in an atmosphere of understanding and were adopted virtually unanimously. this is an encouraging sign that we are aware of the importance of building a clearer, more systematic, more structured and unified policy towards the black sea region and the surrounding countries. this is not an easy task. the black sea region is made up of countries with different traditions, cultures, political practices, territorial extent and population. these countries are also at different stages of their cooperation with the european union: from member states, through candidate countries, to countries in the european neighbourhood policy and, of course, russia, whose constructive approach would be crucial to the success of the initiative. however, this mix also provides a number of opportunities for the combination of different policies to produce a much greater cumulative effect. i want to make three points. first, the region is of major strategic importance to the european union in terms of security, energy supply, transport and trade, the environment, etc. therefore, while welcoming the commission's initiative on black sea synergy, we would like to see a more ambitious project based on what has been achieved in the northern dimension or euro-mediterranean cooperation. at a time when the idea of a euro-mediterranean union is being launched, there is nothing more natural for the black sea to find a more ambitious formula. secondly, there is a lack of transport and energy infrastructure throughout the region. i therefore believe it appropriate to support all planned transnational projects in this direction, because they are complementary rather than alternative. this means more security, easier economic exchange and a closer link between the countries of the region and the european union. not only will the sources be diversified, but also the routes by which oil and natural gas will reach the european union. thirdly, most countries in the region suffer from serious social problems and we would like to see social issues not relegated to the background. the long-term prospects of the black sea and south caucasus countries are linked to human potential development, investment in education, ensuring adequate health services and childcare. - thank you. - thank you.
madam president, commissioner, i congratulate the european commission for having initiated this debate with its communication on strengthening cooperation in the black sea region by complementing existing bilateral policies with a new regional approach. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs anastase, for a very balanced and innovative report. i fully share the view that, with the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union, the black sea has acquired a new strategic importance - not just for the countries of the region, but for all the member states, and for the policies and principles pursued by the union. i urge the commission to call on national governments, when implementing major infrastructure, energy and environmental projects affecting the livelihoods, health and quality of life of the citizens in the towns and municipalities where these projects will be implemented, to provide local communities with information on the technical parameters of the projects, in line with the highest international standards accepted for such projects. sharing the deep concern expressed in the report about the state of the environment in the black sea region, in particular the state of the black sea, which is affected by uncontrolled pollution, aggravated by numerous environmental disasters, i urge that independent assessments of the impact of the construction of new oil and gas transport infrastructure on the environment and the public life of citizens be carried out and that reports by national governments on the possible harm from such projects be made available for public referenda and debate. as is the case with the burgas-alexandropolis oil pipeline project in bulgaria. in full accordance with the principles of sustainable development and overcoming environmental disasters advocated in the report, and in the context of the last two tragic incidents in the kerch region last november and the first week of the new year, it is necessary to establish a mechanism to respect the interests of local communities in coastal municipalities when there is a threat to the purity of the black sea, to the livelihood and quality of life of citizens in these settlements. thank you for your attention.
commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your mr president, ladies and gentlemen, equal participation of women and men in the labour market is a prerequisite for sustainable economic growth and harmonious social development. in recent decades, europe has made significant progress in upholding gender equality. the report on the role of women in industry summarises some of these achievements, while calling for a stricter application of the principle of equal opportunities. unfortunately, it can be noted that despite the existing necessary legal framework, a number of european directives and resolutions remain unenforced. the role of women in industry should be based on the principles of equal pay and equal participation in decision-making. the labour market situation in the member states shows that the representation of women varies according to the sector. they form a large proportion of employment in the service sector and are underrepresented in high technology, for example. the promotion of decent work is an integral part of the values of the european union and member states must take effective measures to ensure that standards are met and decent work is guaranteed in the various industrial sectors. i believe that the challenge for all of us is to implement a set of policies aimed at reconciling work, private and family life. european citizens, both women and men, deserve equal opportunities and equal treatment, not just in the book but in practice. - thank you. - thank you.
colleagues, in the 20th century, millions of people around the world fell victim to communism. sadly, this highly harmful, misanthropic, and largely anti-christian ideology continues to claim victims and to have its representatives today. even in this room here. i'll give you an example to make it a little bit clearer. hu jia is currently under house arrest in china because there are enough people there who believe that he is the voice of their ideas. that's what makes him dangerous to the chinese regime. here in the european parliament, thank god, there are enough meps elected by millions of citizens to represent their views, but the governing factors in this european union, which many people liken to a "pyramid", have their own priorities, and a referendum on the lisbon treaty is not one of those priorities. that makes us, these mps, just as dangerous as hu jia to the chinese regime. we're not under house arrest, but mr. pöthering, if he's honest and frank enough, would admit that he would go that far. but i assure him that the dignified representation of our constituents is more important than that prospect. thank you, sir.
madam president, i join with the majority of speakers in acknowledging the importance of this energy and environment package. i also believe that it will be a new major step in increasing the role of europe in the fight against climate change. i would like to mention two of the five principles mentioned by the president of the commission: fairness and competitiveness. i should like to express my satisfaction with the fact that the commission has taken into account the position of countries like mine, bulgaria, especially as far as trade outside the emissions trading scheme is concerned and with regard to specifying targets for renewables. as far as competitiveness is concerned, however, a lot has to be done in order to make the commission’s proposals more precise and, in the absence of a possible future agreement, we should be very careful regarding countries like bulgaria and the energy mix, so that the possibilities for further developing energy and industry are preserved on the basis of achievable targets and at an achievable price.
i would like to draw attention to problems related to maritime accidents and incidents. they're usually talked about in the moment of the event, then time quickly erases the tragedies from memory. but marine and ocean disasters are part of the common maritime policy. we have to prepare for them as we prepare for the transfers. recently, the bulgarian ship "vanessa" suffered a shipwreck in the sea of azov. in recent months, there have been a series of incidents in the gulf of kerch due to bad weather. sailors were killed and disappeared, millions of euros worth of damage was caused. oil pollution is the azov and black seas. the common maritime policy should provide for risk minimisation measures and for such shipping regimes as will reduce accidents. we need a comprehensive plan for rapid response and conducting emergency rescue operations. we need equipment that can operate in severe weather conditions and situate it in a way that will allow for quick targeting of the accident site.
for 20 years now, bulgaria should have been a state governed by the rule of law, but it is not. the neo-communists in my country will stop at nothing. bulgarian parliament speaker georgi pirinsky is restricting freedom of speech by imposing bans on journalists so they can't do their jobs. at the same time, it turns out that mr. pirinsky is an american citizen and according to bulgarian law, he is anything but a bulgarian citizen. but on the other hand, one of the most notorious drug traffickers in europe, budimir kujowicz, has bulgarian citizenship, because he was issued a passport by the ministry of internal affairs, so that he could freely travel in the european union and do his business. the prosecution checked, no one was guilty, but the passport is a fact. at the same time, the main opposition party in our country, attack, is suffering daily blows from the ruling party. the wife of our leader kapka siderova had a miscarriage because the psychological abuse on her went so far as to make her a defendant in a political case. finally, i suggest mr. pöthering do more than stand by and support the neo-communists in bulgaria.
the second year of bulgaria's membership of the european union is about to prove fatal for a large part of bulgarian dairy farmers. high feed prices, low milk purchase prices and the shortage of means for feeding animals during the winter months, as well as the lack of a targeted state policy in the field of livestock farming, are a prerequisite for the liquidation of animals and the bankruptcy of a large part of bulgarian farmers. today, when the subject of the reform of the common agricultural policy is particularly topical for the european union, we all need to take account of the state of the agricultural sector in the new member states as well. we cannot ignore the difficulties faced by farmers in the new member states in adapting to european standards. bulgarian farmers, like their european counterparts, expect wise decisions on the future of the community's agricultural sector.
today, once again, we are debating important energy issues in this parliament, which is proof that tackling energy issues in their interrelationship with climate change is one of the highest priorities of the european institutions. mrs fiona hall's excellent and comprehensive report is also proof of this. there is no doubt that energy efficiency is one of the pillars on which our energy policy will rest for a long time to come. european citizens are aware of their role and the role of energy efficiency in climate stabilisation and a more secure energy future. therefore, with such public support and such a favourable political situation, i encourage the commission to be even more proactive, to use all the leverage to ensure that the ambitious 20% targets are met, so that the benefits of energy efficiency reach every european. at the same time, if our ultimate goal is to save the planet from catastrophic climate change and at the same time have an energy-secure and competitive europe on the global market, the remaining 80% of energy needs to be given adequate attention to its importance. among these 80% is nuclear energy, which is currently undervalued, and which continues to be weighed down by the fears and dogmas of the past two decades. we must gather all our wisdom and reason to overcome this and speak up for nuclear energy openly and clearly as a business and an opportunity that humanity and europe cannot afford to miss. all of us in this room bear political responsibility for this happening.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i rise to speak on the basis of a huge social, economic, environmental and moral problem that has been eating away at bulgarian society for 18 years. and instead of being resolved, it continues to grow like a malignant tumor with unpredictable consequences. it's about the kremikovtsi steelworks, which is supposed to play a strategic role in the bulgarian economy. unfortunately, in the last decade and a half, instead of being a source of revenue for our country, it has become a sore for our entire society, which is used only for the personal benefit of certain mafia groups and filling the party coffers. and all under the protection of successive governments, including the present one. it is particularly disturbing that the current crisis in the fortunes of kremikowci, which is facing a very real danger of being closed down and leaving 10,000 workers and their families on the street without a livelihood, is a direct consequence of the actions of people who are connected to criminal activities and to the highest levels of power. we are talking about the former director of the plant valentin zakhariev, former prosecutor general nikola filchev and former head of the specialized police units - "barets" - filko slavov. their names are associated not only with the kremikowski government, but also with some of the darkest sides of bulgaria's transition to democracy, including the murder of military prosecutor nikolai kolev. it turns out that the people in question, both before and now, enjoy the protection of the judiciary and the government, and continue to live as untouchables. i am convinced that it is unacceptable in a member state of... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr. chairman, the problems of raising disadvantaged children affect all parties. children's rights and their protection require a common policy. reducing the number of children in institutions is a fine goal, but in all countries there will always be children who need the care of society because they have no parents or are otherwise disadvantaged. we need solidarity with these children and these countries and in no case should we allow a display that violates their dignity. i call on the european commission to undertake the development of special programmes for disadvantaged children, taking into account what has been done in the member states and avoiding undermining the prestige of any one. the dissemination of trend information, as in the case of one of the houses in bulgaria, should not be encouraged. it's damaging to the image of our country. it does not bring any positive things to the european common policy. productive education programmes for disadvantaged children, regardless of the manner and place in which they are raised, preventing the exploitation of child labour and involving children in various activities that have a negative impact on their behaviour are necessary.
on behalf of the alde group. dear representatives of the european council, dear representatives of the european commission, dear colleagues, three years ago the renewed lisbon strategy clearly emphasised the need to achieve sustained economic growth, more and better jobs. today, reforms at national level are proceeding well, the european economy is growing steadily and unemployment is at its lowest level since 1998. despite the good results, in the context of increasing global competition, much more effort is needed to achieve a dynamic and competitive economy based on knowledge and innovation. for the group of the european liberal democrat and reform party, the strategy is a driving force for deep economic and social reform. it is the answer to the challenges of globalisation, making it possible to establish the european union as an area of economic growth, social and environmental well-being, technological development and modernisation. it is precisely to achieve these objectives that efforts need to be redoubled in the coming years. the liberals and democrats for europe report that new structures for managing the strategy have been created over the past three years with a better distribution of responsibilities between the community and the member states. since their accession, bulgaria and romania have been fully integrated into the implementation of the lisbon strategy and in 2007 they reported for the first time on the implementation of their reform plans. despite the differences between member states, the implementation of the lisbon strategy has improved the growth potential of the european union as a whole. the business community, which is extremely important to the liberals and democrats, has benefited greatly from these reforms. the union strategy for better regulation is gradually coming into force. today, it is easier and cheaper to register a company and do business in most member states. however, at european level, we still lack a common entrepreneurial culture. a comprehensive approach at european union level is needed for the growth and competitiveness of smes. in the field of innovation, research and development, member states have committed to investing 3% of gdp by 2010. however, the data show that there are wide differences between member states. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the european union has made great strides towards transforming itself into an ecological society. new ambitious commitments were made to drastically reduce carbon dioxide emissions and use renewable energy from 2020. liberals and democrats believe that a green society can only be achieved if research and innovation deliver the necessary 'green' technologies. the high standards we as europeans desire can only be achieved if we act in solidarity. this is why the sharing of experiences, support and the opportunity to learn from each other are of utmost importance. a knowledge-based economy also requires a willingness to learn. economic growth, low unemployment, high social standards and a dynamic business environment are not mutually exclusive. it is enough to take the example of countries like denmark and finland. ladies and gentlemen, many of the priorities of the liberals and democrats have found their way into the european parliament's resolution on the lisbon strategy. these include creating the conditions for a more flexible and better functioning labour market, allowing for social integration; reducing administrative burdens and achieving better governance; improving the international standing of european business; more imports, exports and investment; improving transparency and stability in financial markets; better consumer protection; more commitment to the environment; more efficient use of the community structural funds to deliver on the strategy; and strengthening the transport network of trans-european projects. ladies and gentlemen, the indicators are in place, the objectives are clearly defined, the essential thing now is the implementation.
member of the commission. - maybe i wasn't clear enough. we never said that some languages, including german, could be supported only after 2013. the answer is categorical. in the lifelong learning programme, all languages spoken in the european union, so of course including german, are eligible for funding. the only thing that matters is the quality of the project or projects that are presented. so the answer is, categorically, that such languages can be funded in the lifelong learning programme, including in this period from 2008 to 2013. i repeat, including this period.
member of the commission. − the commission has no intention of presenting in the near future a new programme to promote the use of less widely used languages in europe. in fact, the commission's new generation of programmes for 2007-13, namely the lifelong learning programme, offers a wide range of funding opportunities for these languages. all languages are eligible for this programme. funding is available under all four subprogrammes of the lifelong learning programme: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. this funding is also possible under the newly created cross-section of the lifelong learning programme, in particular through key activity 2 foreign languages which proposes to fund projects and networks with the specific aim of promoting language learning and linguistic diversity. following the 2007 general call for proposals, a network and 3 projects dedicated to the less widely used languages were selected for funding under key action 2. priority will be given to projects targeting languages with a smaller circulation in europe for the period 2008-2010. in 2008, the budget available under key action 2 is eur 9.9 million, but as funding for language-oriented activities and projects is part of a dominant trend, additional funds are available under the lifelong learning programme.
member of the commission. - i can only repeat what i have said before, that the actions undertaken by the european commission support linguistic diversity, not only the 23 official languages, but also the other languages spoken in the european union, including regional languages, languages of limited circulation. and through the data that i have provided, i have shown that this support is a concrete one, a significant financial support given to the development of these languages.
member of the commission. − the european commission intends to present a new multilingualism strategy in the second half of 2008. the educational component will be very important in this strategy. the component and modalities of language learning will play a very important role. as regards the irish language, i should like to inform you that i recently visited dublin and had the opportunity to speak to the irish authorities, then and afterwards, and i stressed the need to train as many people as possible who are able to work at community level and beyond as translators or interpreters. it is a key element in ensuring that the irish language has a fully equal place alongside the other official languages of the union.
mr president, i really expected to have an answer from the commissioner tonight. the floor is given to people to make statements and ask questions. i have a question and i would like to have an answer to that question. it is as simple as that. time is being wasted on statements tonight. could you please, in this case, let the commissioner answer very quickly? i will not ask any particular questions after that.
the european parliament has voted in favour of the resolution, which calls for the eu to take action to prevent the further spread of the virus. this act of unilateral separatism is an unacceptable precedent in international relations. as meps, we believe that the kosovo regional assembly does not have the power to adopt an act of independence and therefore we consider the separatist government, composed of proven drug traffickers and war criminals, to be illegitimate. recognition of kosovo's independence by individual states or by the european union in general would mean the amnesty of the leaders of the albanian terrorists who have carried out ethnic cleansing in the area in recent years against all non-albanian communities. we express our extreme disgust and outrage that this ethnic cleansing and destruction of hundreds of medieval orthodox churches in the area of metohija, kosovo, was taking place under the eyes of international security forces of nato and the un. in view of the crimes committed, we strongly oppose the artificial creation of a new muslim state whose sole purpose is to serve as an intermediary base for the trafficking of weapons, drugs and people to western europe. as representatives of the bulgarian people in the union, we call on its institutions not to recognize kosovo as an independent state, but to adhere to the previous decisions of the un security council. we also call on the security council to take decisive action to maintain the status quo and to overcome separatist tendencies in the name of political stability in the balkans.
mr president, mr rupel, mr rehn, perhaps now is the time to express once again our regret that an agreed solution to the kosovo status issue between serbia and kosovo could not be reached, but there was no way that the negotiations could continue indefinitely, as the two sides remained in mutually exclusive positions until the very end. we can also express regret that today serbia and the serbian people have to pay the bills accumulated by the greater serbian nationalism with which the country, however difficult, is divided. but we must face up to reality and stress that kosovo's independence, although not independence in the full sense of the term, is a fact, a real fact, which of course also gives a new quality to the processes. we have to take that fact into account and the arguments to admit or not to admit don't change the existence of that fact. we cannot help but be aware of the possible consequences of this act for the stability of south-eastern europe, and above all in the short term, we hope. but the european union needs to take a few important steps: first, to help build an adequate administrative and management structure in kosovo, to accelerate the integration of serbia by signing a stabilisation and association agreement quickly, and to pay particular attention to macedonia, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro, because there is a risk that we will not see the problem of forests in south-east europe.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all members, and in particular the rapporteur, mrs castex, for her inspired draft report on the commission communication on the demographic future of europe. i am very pleased that, in addition to the employment committee, four other parliamentary committees - the committee on women's rights and gender equality, the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on regional development - have dealt with the communication. this, of course, gives a stronger political signal to the member states and highlights the importance of demographic issues for europe today. the european parliament's analysis of the main demographic challenges is broadly in line with the conclusions of the commission's 2007 communication. both bodies agree that ageing, together with the decline in fertility, is the result of social and economic progress. moreover, parliament and the commission share the view that both ageing and declining fertility can be tackled constructively and successfully. demographic change presents not only major challenges but also new opportunities. but as the report stresses, it is important to respond to both challenges and opportunities today. it is encouraging that the policy responses and measures outlined in the report largely coincide with the commission's proposals. family policy is the sole responsibility of the member states. however, as the report rightly points out, the european union also has an important role to play. the revised lisbon strategy provides a framework for modernising family policy by promoting equal opportunities, and in particular through initiatives aimed at achieving a better reconciliation between work and family life. in this regard, we welcome the creation of the european alliance for families, which was established at the european council in spring 2007. this alliance provides another platform at european union level for the exchange of knowledge between member states. the report also correctly points out that the degree of dependency between the economically active and the economically inactive is changing and that member states will therefore be forced to do everything in their power to deal with future labour market shortages. in particular, they must increase the participation of unemployed young people, women and older people in the labour market. a number of concrete steps can and must be taken. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to address migration briefly, because it is an extremely sensitive and important area. it is clear that migration and immigration are part of europe's history, of european life, and that it is very important from the outset to strengthen integration methods and not to look at migration as a security or police issue. migration is part of our european life and has positive and necessary consequences for us in its very essence. finally, let me address another problem that is associated with infertility. the european parliament report points to the increasing incidence of infertility among couples and it must be noted that this incidence is of course linked to purely medical consequences or phenomena, but is also undoubtedly linked to the social situation, in particular to the delay in the birth of the first child. i would like to say that the approach to this problem must be a coherent and comprehensive one, that is to say, not based solely on a medical approach. ladies and gentlemen, the list of speakers is very extensive, so allow me to conclude my remarks and look forward to the discussion that will follow.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. - mr commissioner, mr president, the general demographic situation in europe today is very worrying. according to eurostat projections, the population aged 15-64 will decline by 1 million people per year after 2010. this trend is due to two factors. life expectancy in all the countries of the european union is continuing to increase, which is a very positive result of the good quality of life in the community. however, it is worrying that at the same time, the birth rate is very low, leading to a sharp increase in the proportion of the ageing population. this is what is causing the proportion of people of working age to fall, and it is what is causing the productivity to fall. this demographic problem threatens the stability of the european economy, the european social model and solidarity between generations. in this context, i welcome the european commission's initiative to create a common european demographic strategy as the only adequate way to respond to this global challenge. the european parliament's committee on economic and monetary affairs focuses on economic instruments that enable the improvement of demography in the european union. the texts proposed contain several main lines, including: achieving sustainable and balanced public finances; promoting the development of diverse financial instruments while ensuring transparency and security; using tax breaks for companies that hire older workers; accelerating the process of labour market liberalisation, or internal migration, as commissioner spidla said, in the enlarged eu, even before 2014; promoting employment among young people and those with family responsibilities through innovative work schemes such as shift work, part-time work, lifelong learning. the need for member states to comply with their commitments under the stability and growth pact was emphasised as a way of overcoming demographic challenges. the text also includes more flexible mechanisms for the voluntary retention of people over the minimum retirement age, under the 'salary and pension' formula. the main idea here is that if we want to respond adequately to demographic challenges, we must support the creation of mechanisms that allow for flexible forms of employment and encourage voluntary continuation of active life even beyond the minimum retirement age.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is the first region in the world to feel the demographic challenges. demographic development is the result of three factors: fertility, life expectancy and migration flows. the birth rate in the european union has fallen over the past 30 years and there is no sign of a change in the trend. and while in some member states it is downward, in my country, bulgaria, the trend can be characterized as a demographic collapse - with the lowest birth rate and the highest death rate in europe. at the same time, there is an increase in life expectancy. the trend is stable and will in future affect all aspects of the economic and social development of european citizens. take the ratio of people aged 65 and over to those of working age. right now it's 1 to 4, as i mentioned. by 2050, it's expected to be 1:2. but even now, this delicate ratio is a fact. i'll point again to bulgaria, where the ratio of pensioners to workers is now 1:1,2. as regards migration flows, our approach should be directed towards managing them effectively rather than over-control. a more flexible policy towards immigrants, and in particular those from third countries, is needed at community and national level. immigration could be a positive element, but it is not a panacea for solving any aspect of the demographic problems. the examples mentioned clearly show that demographic challenges are a fact and that we need to face them today. we need to change our perspective from challenge to opportunity. demographic change seems to be still a lot of talk, but little action. for this reason, i strongly support the view that demographic development should be a horizontal policy issue, incorporated into the various policies of the community, national, regional and local authorities.
mr president, commissioner, the most important thing about this report is that it is connected to the realities of life. the demographic problems in europe are a fact and in some countries they take on a crisis dimension. they have their own causes and national characteristics, but they also have common elements. the consequences are very important: the near impossibility of solving the important socioeconomic problems of the member states with our own human resources; the highly changing structure of migration flows, which in turn creates new challenges. policy aimed at the younger generation: motherhood, social protection and economic support for young women and men, their families, responsible parenting are essential to tackling demographic problems. motherhood should be recognized as a period of insurance. demographic issues should also become part of the education and training of each succeeding generation. otherwise, the problem is delayed for generations and accumulates, generating new crises. let's not forget sex education, parenting education, solidarity between the generations. more comprehensive engagement of states in the upbringing and education of children and their inclusion in nursery and kindergarten is needed.
mr president, the fourth cohesion report provides evidence of the positive effects of eu cohesion policy, so the eu must continue to assist eu regions to achieve economic and social prosperity and convergence. we are now addressing new challenges, and have agreed that our efforts must be directed towards dealing with these. however, i would like to emphasise a problem we addressed in july 2007 in the form of the resolution adopted on the poorest regions in the eu. unfortunately, no further attention was given to that important issue. just as the outermost regions have had a special strategy, we now need priority treatment and a strategic approach for the least prosperous regions, in order to overcome their specific difficulties, which are a combination of socioeconomic problems and territorial and spatial characteristics. i hope the commissioner will address that issue in her green paper. therefore, i strongly support the future implementation of cohesion policy in its three dimensions – economic, social and territorial – which could stand as a successful example of the european union’s solidarity principle.
despite the different points of view that exist, we need to remember what cohesion policy is for and what its objectives are, namely, it embodies the hopes for greater prosperity and a better pan-european future. all europeans aspire to a better life and cohesion policy is the instrument to support them in their efforts. let us not forget that there are many differences within the european union, and at the same time the tendency is for financial resources to be reduced. i therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary to strengthen and consolidate cohesion policy. at the same time, i think it is useful to ensure that it is applied optimally. some of the procedures and rules are still too complex and therefore likely to be ineffective. a procedure such as a general revision of cohesion policy might contribute to an overall improvement and benefit all europeans. finally, i would like to emphasise the important role of cohesion policy for the least developed regions. the citizens living there trust in the eu's support. let's not disappoint them.
yesterday was a day of pilgrimage in bulgaria: march 9 - the date on which 23 years ago turkish terrorists blew up the mothers with children car on the sofia-burgas train. seven people died, including two children. nine others were seriously injured. today, one of those convicted for his part in the preparation of this terrible crime, sabri mehmedali, is a party functionary of the movement for rights and freedoms. for nearly two decades, this movement - an ethnic party that existed in violation of the bulgarian constitution - used the levers of local and central power, not only tolerating but also promoting the spread of islamic fundamentalism. the sdp is the only party in europe to build a monument to proven terrorist child killers. less than two weeks ago, nine people were burned alive in a sleeping carriage on the sofia-kardam train. there is strong evidence that this is an arson attack committed on the eve of the national holiday, march 3rd. last year on this bright day, turks were having sex with bulgarian youths in a country called bulgaria. the sense of impunity created by the power of the dps is inciting the turks to violence. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
madam president, may i draw your attention to an issue which is of crucial importance for the proper functioning of our parliament as well as for our political weight, both individually and collectively. i respect very much our interpreters and their difficult job. most of them are very professional and committed. i would like to underline, however, that weak interpretation leads to misunderstanding both among us, the meps, and between us and the citizens. when i speak in plenary, i try to use bulgarian as much as possible. i have this right and it is part of eu diversity and multilingualism. i use simple sentences and give the written text in advance, so that i can be sure my message gets through. however, to my surprise, i recently discovered that one third to more than half of any of my speeches simply disappears in the english version, not to mention the other languages which are used by smaller nations. i believe i speak to all citizens. i expect to be understood by all eu citizens and i cannot accept that technical issues prevent that. i kindly ask the presidency of parliament to take the necessary measures to improve the quality of interpretation. (the president cut off the speaker)
i would like to draw your attention once again to the correct and effective use of the european union's financial resources. the reports adopted at the last session and the debates on them clearly define some of the main problems of the existing system. unfortunately, the debate in the media and in society continues about the inability of some of the old member states and some of the new member states, including my own country, bulgaria, to apply european standards sufficiently well and to protect european financial interests. the absence of an effective preventive policy aimed at preventing irregularities and abuses in the allocation and use of funds is also evident. the events of the last weeks, in which far and sapard funds for bulgaria were suspended by the european commission, are further proof that most of the irregularities in the spending of these funds are also corrupt practices. in this connection, i believe that the european parliament's mechanisms should be strengthened and the european commission should be asked to monitor implementation. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
i would like to draw your attention to the case of "sukhodol" - the environmental disaster in the bulgarian capital, which directly affects the health and lives of millions of inhabitants. in december 2007, citizens affected by the unregulated landfill in the district of sukhodol sent a petition to the president of the european parliament after the landfill, which had been closed in 2005 by a decision of the ministry of environment and water, was illegally reopened on 4 december 2007 with the intervention of more than 2500 police and gendarmes. the parties concerned refer to the aarhus convention, ratified by the national assembly of the republic of bulgaria. the municipality of sofia, illegally supported by the council of ministers of the republic of bulgaria, carried out an activity for which the mandatory assessment by the ministry of the environment and the subsequent public consultation with the affected population were not carried out. moreover, the municipality of sofia, again illegally supported by the council of ministers of the republic of bulgaria, has carried out an activity for which no decision has entered into force. please, in order to stop bioterrorism, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, the committee on petitions... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
mrs president, commissioner, sustainable transport policy, taking into account energy and environmental aspects, includes: transport infrastructure, means of transport, employment through transport, mobility of people and movement of goods. pan-european transport networks require a balance between quality and environmental safety. this implies a precise inventory, especially of rail systems, an assessment of the state of play and a targeting of measures towards countries that have not yet managed to achieve a high european level. reliable financial instruments should be involved. it is particularly important to stop some of the new member states becoming a dumping ground for old cars for europe. that's definitely not environmentally friendly. i am always concerned when european reports mention specific geographical areas by name and do not mention others. the black sea region is also important. there's also talk of sustainable intermodal schemes. and within that report, we should probably discuss the tolls and traffic on the danube bridge between ruse and gjirokastër, bulgaria and romania.
commissioner, this document which the european parliament is about to adopt is very important. i congratulate you, the rapporteur and all colleagues for having contributed to the decision-making and adoption of the proposals so far. it is essential that a key policy is defined. technological innovation is what is needed for the development of the european economy. that's what makes the world go 'round. it is particularly important that knowledge societies, which will operate on a project basis, will be able to take account of the priorities of the common european development policy on the one hand, but also of the capacities of the member states. it should cover and develop the best of the best of individual scientific structures, universities, which will be linked to the priorities in energy, climate change, new progressive materials, without which the development of the world is impossible. this institute really needs to become a unifying symbol, but also the best mobile centre for best research practices, and perhaps a good european policy would be to situate it in a new member state of the union.
the state of milk production in bulgaria is an example that something is wrong with the economic system of the european union. the increase in quotas is already of little importance, since in the first year of membership of the european union alone 30% of bulgaria's cows died of starvation. this is due to the huge inflation that the union has brought, as well as new regulations, quotas and rising feed and fuel prices. how much longer must it be, maybe somewhere around two years, before the country that is the home of yogurt, the home of lactobacillus bulgaricum, only two years left until, thanks to the union, there is not a single live cow left in that country.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr lutz goepel, on the successful work he has done on this report. as a bulgarian mep, it is extremely important to me that special attention has been paid to the new member states of the european union in this report. they will be able, if they wish, to apply a simplified single area payment until 2013 and will be assisted by the european union in applying the cross compliance rules. maintaining the right of member states to decide for themselves whether and how to change their direct aid systems will allow our countries greater flexibility and to take account of the specific needs of each region and sector. i believe that the report on the state of the common agricultural policy is of particular importance today, when the european parliament must demonstrate to the citizens its interest in and political responsibility for the development of the agricultural sector in the community. i believe that the lutz goepel report is in the interests of european farmers and i urge you to support it. thank you for your attention.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate mrs klaß on her excellent report. as a member of the committee on regional development from bulgaria, i will draw attention to the fact that rural areas have different development potential. there is something, however, that would certainly contribute to improving the quality of life in rural areas, and especially for the women there. these are the provision of transport and social infrastructure, affordable social services in villages such as childcare, care for the elderly and sick, communication services and the construction of cultural and sports centres. in this respect, adequate support for rural areas through funding from the european funds is of paramount importance. i would therefore like to recommend a better link between urban and rural issues. the development of rural regions should be coordinated with the activities carried out under regional policy. i believe that not a separate approach, as in the past, but an integrated approach to rural cohesion and development, taking into account the role of small and medium-sized towns in rural areas, will improve the impact of european aid and contribute to improving living conditions, especially for women.
i support mrs gomes' report, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, because it sets out in clear and unambiguous terms all the problems that are involved in the construction of a new democratic government in iraq and the ways in which they can be overcome. first, i call for the immediate withdrawal of the occupying forces from iraq, because the war and the occupation of that sovereign state was illegal and decided in complete violation of international law unilaterally and contrary to the views of the majority of un member states and the world community. i hope that the situation created does not endanger the peaceful population of 3500 members of the people's mujahideen organization of iran (pmoi) in ashraf, who are under constant pressure. i am convinced that democracy in no country in the world can be built by undemocratic and violent methods. i shall vote in favour of the report by mrs ana maria gomes because the problems of iraq can only be solved by returning to iraqi hands real and comprehensive sovereignty.
madam president, commissioner, president-in-office of the council and ms gomes, i want to thank you for everything you have said and for all the work you have done until now. i believe that this report sends a very important message to the rest of the european union: that this house wants to look forward; it does not want to look backwards; it wants to be engaged in the future of a democratic and federal iraq in support of that future. i will say three things about the report, and i am particularly proud that this report is coming from the european parliament on the day we celebrate 50 years of the achievements of the european parliament. today we celebrate what we have achieved in reconciliation in europe. and the lessons we have learned over the past 50 years are lessons we need to transfer as experience and knowledge to our friends in iraq so that they can use them and rebuild their country in a successful way. the report outlines, of course, the achievements, but it does not shy away from the challenges being faced the federal republic of iraq and the commissioner very aptly outlined them. i would like to point out one thing as a footnote to her statement. that is that the achievement on the security front is the primary responsibility of the iraqis, supported by the internationals of course, but it is the responsibility of the iraqis. no one can ensure the security of iraq except the iraqis; nobody can ensure the resolution of the political problems except the iraqi politicians and their political process. we call for a new strategy, a european strategy for iraq. i spent a large part of 2006 working in the council representation in baghdad helping them. the message i was receiving from everyone every day was, ‘where is europe? we want to talk to europe because your experience is vital to us.’ this, today, is a response to that call. finally, this house in its report reaffirms the commitment of the european parliament to support the reconstruction and the building of the iraqi parliament, an extremely important role, and thank you council for recognising the contribution that this parliament has made by selecting and approving a delegation for relations with iraq. i think today we are faced with a vital challenge: actually to use what we know and what we have in support of political process, not through weapons, but through words, not through arms, but through deeds in iraq and help the people there.
my fellow members, my country, bulgaria, is unfortunately one of the leading countries in europe in terms of population ageing. after the cold war ended, younger people from our community, lured by the promise of a good life in the west, rushed in en masse to wash your dishes, and we were left with only their elderly parents. your idea of extending the lives of the elderly is a great one. who doesn't want that? but before you think about using new information and communication technologies, i beg you to realize the fact that in bulgaria pensioners live on pensions equal to 50 euros a month. that's what the socialist government of the bulgarian socialist party has set aside for them. that's a fact. i address the representatives of the pes in this room: ladies and gentlemen internationalists, do you realize what 50 euros a month is for a pensioner who has worked honestly and honorably all his life? do you realize that with that 50 euros you have to eat, you have to buy food, and at prices that are in line with european prices? do you realize that pensioners in bulgaria are turning off their phone poles because they can't pay the monstrous fees to the bulgarian telecommunications company, which was criminally privatized? it's a game for them, the way they approach things: to raise their information awareness. think about increasing their financial independence first. because pensioners in bulgaria are largely not of gypsy origin and, accordingly, they do not expect to receive anything for free.
my country has made a great effort to raise excise duties in recent years and since 2004 the rates for unleaded petrol have gone from eur 254 to 350 and for diesel fuel from eur 203 to 307. our desire was to raise rates quickly to reduce the inflationary effect for years to come. the new commission proposal calls our strategy into question. so the proposal that's made in the economic commission report makes some sense and less punitive to countries like bulgaria and romania. i hope that the commission will accept this compromise proposal, even though it too is a major effort for our economy and will be an inflationary factor without being able to influence this environmental protection decision, since petrol and diesel are not elastic products and are not dependent on excise duties but on many other economic factors.
i congratulate the rapporteur on the comprehensive approach to 'gender' issues and the committee on the communiqué. but a document is not so much strong with its adoption as with its application. so we have to make an effort to make this happen. the mdgs can be achieved by balancing all policies family, school, university, health, economy in which women must be at the centre. we need to emphasize in our cooperation programs the right of women to be healthy. including reproductive health. we need to think about women's economic independence, which is a prerequisite for the development of entrepreneurship and the purposeful use of their full potential. it is particularly important to talk about shared responsibilities at all levels - national, international, about shared responsibilities between women and men. and this applies to all areas of life and all sectors of the economy.
mr president, i should like to add that the democratic standards in armenia are not as we would like to see them. what aggravates the situation is the socioeconomic situation, and this, naturally, brings additional people to the street. i would like to appeal both to the armenian authorities and, of course, to azerbaijan to endeavour to settle this long-lasting conflict. there are areas occupied by armenia which should be freed because there are no armenians there. what is really worrying is that both countries are in the process of rearmament, which, of course, reflects the situation as to the real social problems facing the countries, particularly armenia. therefore, i support this joint motion for a resolution, but i think we should continue to follow the situation very closely, because it is worrying.
author. − mr president, i will link this discussion to the previous debate on russia because i strongly believe that, if we believe in a core set of values, we cannot uphold them only in countries that are weak, and give countries that are strong an exemption. i am proud that this parliament debated the resolution on russia, and we should all be proud of that. we should fear the day when the european parliament stops debating these resolutions and stops standing firmly for the values that we believe in. because, today, democracy is not the right of everyone to be equal, it is the equal right of everyone to be different. this is a core message that we need to pass on to our partners in russia, and we need to pass it to our partners in afghanistan. president karzai and the afghan government have committed themselves to building a democratic, modern state. in a democratic and modern state, the death sentence is unacceptable. there is not debate about that. no form of death punishment is acceptable in a democratic and modern state. this is the core of our european value. the case of the afghan journalist mr kambakhsh is even more perplexing, because he has been sentenced to death because of exercising his right to free access to information. we should encourage very strongly the authorities in afghanistan, the government and the president to intervene on his behalf and use their powers to spare his life and to make sure that he is pardoned at the end of the process which he needs to go through now, meaning the appeal process. we should, however, also continue to help the authorities build the institutions that they need to function as a democratic and modern state, support civil society and, most important of all, continue our commitment to the security of afghanistan. finally, we should never forget that education is the core value that we need to impress on a country like afghanistan. girls have been able to go to school only in the last few years. there is so much work for us to do there. we should not shy away from that work, and we should impress very strongly, both on the commission and the council and all the member states, the fact that we should invest in education in afghanistan.
i am sure that mr. meijer is aware that "macedonia" and "macedonian nation" as concepts were created by a directive of the communist international in 1934. after the war, the ideas of macedonism were seized and imposed with an iron fist by the yugoslav communist party, and then became part of the greater serbian idea. these ideas include the fierce propaganda of bulgarophobia. many in macedonia who are aware of their bulgarian ethnicity are being repressed for their desire to call themselves bulgarians. every year the memorial plaque of bulgarian mara buneva in skopje - the fighter for the freedom of macedonia and called by the french press "the macedonian charlotte corday" - is desecrated. in 2007, this insult was accompanied by beatings of bulgarians and macedonian citizens with bulgarian self-consciousness. it is high time the macedonian government curbed the bulgaro-phobic performances, because such performances have no place in the european union. thank you for your attention.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the greatest challenges facing my country, bulgaria, in the first years of its membership of the community is to ensure transparency and to prevent misuse of european funds. in support of the efforts to fight corruption, i initiated the creation of a public council for citizen monitoring on the absorption of european funds in our agricultural sector. it will not be a formal institution but a civic structure that will unite the efforts of all those who want to ensure that bulgaria's next chance for development is not squandered because of corruption, abuse and mismanagement. the overall objective is to build mechanisms for public scrutiny and broad access to information on the use of funds for agriculture, the implementation of projects and the promotion of good practices in this sector. let us not forget that promoting active civic participation in socio-political processes is one of the main priorities on the community's agenda.
in the last 48 hours, three contract killings have been committed in sofia, bulgaria. since the inauguration of the current minister of internal affairs, rumen petkov, a total of 22 contract murders of businessmen, mafiosi and politicians have been committed in bulgaria. none of them have been exposed, none of them have been convicted. on monday in broad daylight in sofia, the writer georgi stoev was shot dead. he published several books exposing organized crime. at the same time, it became clear that minister petkov regularly talked to figures from the criminal world and even went to meetings with such figures. these facts clearly show the complete merger of state power with the mafia. they say the bulgarian minister of the interior is a mafia. in the pre-accession process of the bulgarian people it was explained that the union would be a guarantor to deal with banditry and murder, a guarantor of stability and security for a life without crime. now that any one of us could be the next victim, the league must act to clear this stain of shame. not only from bulgaria, but from myself.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the reason for my speech is another tragic event in bulgaria in recent days, which does not give us the right to remain silent anymore. on monday in the center of the bulgarian capital, sofia, was shot to death the writer georgi stoev, who in a series of dozens of books dared to bring to light the whole truth about organized crime in the country, about its merger with the political elite and the judicial system. the successive assassinations have made it clear that the prosecution, the judiciary and the ministry of the interior in our country either do not have the power to deal with crime, or, what is even more frightening, do not have the will to do so. by their inaction, they become accomplices in crime and are used only for political rackets by dissidents. it is no coincidence that the president of the european commission, mr barroso, himself said this in a straightforward way during his last visit to us. the bitter truth is that in bulgaria no one is safe anymore and we have to admit that without help from europe the very state in our country is put at stake.
member of the commission. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has made a priority of the europe of results, and environmental policy has been - and is - a very successful policy of the european union, since it has brought concrete and tangible benefits to its citizens. in some 80%, the environmental legislation of the member states is based on the corresponding legislation of the european union. european legislation has made a decisive contribution to the very significant improvement of air and water quality, as well as to the protection and preservation of europe's natural wealth, and it enables the european union to lead the world on issues such as climate change, biodiversity and chemicals legislation. it has been almost a year since the commission adopted its communication on the mid-term review of the sixth community environment action programme. the last year has been particularly important, as environmental issues have been consistently placed at the top of the political priorities of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the bali conference last december set in motion the process of reaching a new global climate agreement by the end of 2009. the european union's 'green diplomacy' has been a decisive influence in achieving this positive result. the commission's climate and energy package presented in january was ambitious and demonstrated the european union's determination to continue to set an example internationally. the proposal for a new directive on industrial emissions strengthens existing provisions and also simplifies existing legislation by merging seven different directives, including one on integrated pollution prevention and control, into a single directive. it is therefore easier to enforce our legislation and thus help to make it more environmentally efficient. it was also important that in the intervening period one of the main messages of the mid-term review was largely accepted by industry, namely that the long-term viability of the european economy needs to be based on sound environmental principles. the high standards set by european union environmental legislation encourage eco-innovation, which in turn boosts industrial efficiency and creates new jobs. in other words, ambitious environmental targets not only improve the quality of life of europe's citizens, but also play a central role in achieving our goals for economic growth and jobs. however, these positive developments are overturned by the scientific evidence that europe has not yet entered a sustainable environmental development path. we have, of course, only halfway through the period covered by the sixth environment action programme, but it is clear that much more needs to be done to address current and emerging threats to our environment. in the coming months the commission will present new proposals, including many of those identified in the parliament's report. these initiatives include the revision of the directive on national emission ceilings and a set of proposals in the field of sustainable consumption and production. we are also preparing a legislative proposal to restrict the trade in illegal logging. after the summer, the communications will be ready for a european view on the question of halting deforestation and finding ways of measuring the progress of societies with criteria beyond gross domestic product. we are also preparing a proposal to ban the trade in seal skins, as long as this hunting is not done in a humane way. improving the application of community legislation is a high priority. improving this application is key to achieving a better environment. only by ensuring the proper implementation of the acquis in its entirety will it be possible to achieve the objectives of the 6th environment action programme. effective implementation is linked to the issue of better regulation. i am pleased that in the last two years the commission has been able to dispel the fears that by 'improved legislation' it meant low environmental standards. the truth is that older and simpler legislation is one of the best ways of improving enforcement and can thus also contribute to better environmental protection. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am particularly pleased that your report contains constructive conclusions on how europe can achieve a better environment and truly sustainable development. i can assure you that the commission will consider these conclusions very carefully when analysing areas where there may be policy gaps and when setting priorities for the coming years. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs myller, for her efforts and mr karim, mrs jeleva and mr navarro respectively from the committees on international trade and regional development and agriculture for their excellent reports. it is clear that there is a broad consensus on what needs to be done. it now remains to transform this support policy into concrete actions leading to a better environment from 2012 onwards.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the regi committee. - madam president, commissioner, colleagues, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development, i would like to emphasise the essential role of regional and local authorities in environmental protection and sustainable development. regions and municipalities are the places where decisions are made and european environmental legislation is put into practice. water supply and sanitation, waste management, public transport and urban planning are just some examples. member states, their regional and local authorities should be encouraged to make the most of the structural funds, while ensuring that their operational programmes contribute to better implementation of environmental legislation. it is clear that there are regions which have difficulties in applying it. specific measures to overcome them should be developed within the framework of cohesion policy. finally, regional cooperation should be used as a vital tool in environmental policy. cooperation between member states, as well as with countries and regions bordering the european union, such as the black, baltic and mediterranean regions, is an opportunity to prevent crossborder pollution. thank you. thank you.
i take the floor to draw attention to an ulcer that affects the rights of over a million citizens in the bulgarian capital. this is a problem that unambiguously illustrates the corruption schemes that unfortunately in recent years have covered all spheres of life in bulgaria. for eight years now, with the clear blessing of both the municipality and the state authorities, the company "sofia water" has been making huge profits on the backs of ordinary citizens without fulfilling even a minimal part of the obligations under its concession contract. however, instead of terminating the contract, the concessionaire received additional loans amounting to millions of euros. the bulgarian authorities, state and municipal, stubbornly closed their ears to the numerous protests of the civic committees, which were eventually forced to informally and officially summon the representative of the european commission, mr barroso, during his recent visit to our country. i believe that if bulgaria and the institutions do not have the will to protect the rights of civil society, the institutions of the european union will do so.
european citizens are concerned about rising food prices. the general price surge felt in western europe is combined in eastern europe with the low level of income. new price increases are expected due to volatile financial markets and the possibility of a global economic crisis. the international monetary fund called for decisive action to control food prices. the overall price increase depends on the value of energy, and the european union is energy dependent. in this respect, the discussion on food prices must go beyond the rational use of agricultural land and the search for alternative ways of producing energy. the price of food can also be controlled by regulating the prices of traditional energy sources. this calls for a rethinking of the use of nuclear energy within the european union's energy mix. the full capacity of existing nuclear installations in the member states would make it possible to compensate for the energy shortage and would influence the price formation of the goods in the consumer basket.
in the 20th century, apart from the totalitarian regimes of communism and nazism, the brutal violations of human rights against the bulgarian and armenian people by the ottoman empire were also a fact. nearly five centuries under the rule of the ottoman state, the violence against the bulgarian people has acquired the features of genocide. a significant part of the bulgarian population was enslaved and exterminated or forcibly islamized, which is basically a targeted ethnic cleansing. another indisputable fact is the forced deportation and murder of over one and a half million armenians by turkish authorities between the 15th and 17th centuries. all such actions against bulgarians and armenians are fully consistent with the un's statutory instruments on the punishment and prosecution of genocide. recognition of the genocide against the armenians and bulgarians will be a clear signal to the republic of turkey to take responsibility and apologize for the five-century yoke on the bulgarians and for the crimes and mass killings committed, and to compensate the heirs of the refugees for the suffering and for the confiscated private property left on its territory.
in writing. i would like to express my great satisfaction with mr adama's report. i support the view that reducing the shortage of organs is the main challenge facing eu member states in relation to organ transplantation. on 9/04/2008 my colleagues from the attaka pp, dimitar stoyanov and desislav chukolov and i made a written declaration on the protection of informed consent in organ, tissue and cell donation in bulgaria, in which we call on the european commission to come up with a proposal on the quality and safety of organ donation. the introduction of a european donor card, complementing existing national systems, will contribute to the rapid identification of donors and thus increase the availability of the necessary transplant material. public awareness of organ donation and transplantation, as well as the introduction of uniform legislation and strict penalties in the eu, for those responsible for organ trafficking, including medical staff, will also ensure donor procedures and informed consent. once again, congratulations on your report.
we all agree with ms harkin's excellent report that volunteering can play an important role in the development of local communities, civil society and democracy. for this reason, volunteering and voluntary organisations need to be encouraged and supported. in this context, i would like to note that the creation of a european database providing basic information on the various voluntary organisations in the european union as well as details of best practices will provide the necessary guidance for improving the voluntary system. the creation of a single european database will allow for more effective partnership and coordination between voluntary organisations and will strengthen international volunteer exchange schemes. this is particularly important for young people and students who, having gained experience in voluntary organisations at an early stage, would perceive their participation in volunteering as a normal contribution to the life of their local communities and to european society.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the subject, mrs jäätteenmäki, on the fact that in the period since the signature of the treaty of lisbon and the charter of fundamental rights, a new framework for the ombudsman's role in modern public relations has also been proposed. i am convinced that this document will help to make the council more effective in its task and make it a real guarantor of effective protection of european citizens against instances of maladministration by the european institutions. the sensitive issue of the ombudsman's access to information, including information that is classified, was a major focus of both the discussions and the report. i believe that in order to carry out its work effectively and to achieve the maximum result in the search for objective truth, which is primarily in the public interest, the european institutions must have the obligation to provide access to all kinds of information. at the same time, however, it is essential that the ombudsman be informed of the nature of the information, especially in cases where it is confidential. of course, it is also very important to respect the privacy rights of citizens, especially when using classified information. i think the rapporteur has managed to strike a balance between individual rights and the public interest. this ensures that the ombudsman has access to all the information in a case so that he can decide it, but at the same time it also respects all the rules that the institutions that provided the information themselves follow and this will ensure the protection of both this information and the rights of european citizens. strengthening the ombudsman's role as an intermediary between the european institutions and citizens will also contribute to the development of democracy and the strengthening of the principles of the rule of law. it is therefore very important that it is present not only at european level but also at national level, especially in countries where democratic principles and control are still being established and where the state structures are unable to provide effective protection at national level for their citizens, who are also citizens of the european union. i therefore also want to emphasise the need to improve the interaction between the institutions of the european union and the ombudsman. the ombudsman's role as the link between the ombudsman and the committee on petitions of the european parliament is also very important, as they must cooperate in the interests of european citizens. it is also important to develop and build a more effective system of practical interaction mechanisms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs jäätteenmäki's report comes at a very important moment in the construction of europe: the adoption of the treaty of lisbon and the european charter of fundamental rights. the enshrinement, for the first time, of the right of european citizens to good administration is a significant step towards greater transparency and meets the requirement that the actions and behaviour of the community institutions be in conformity not only with the regulations in force but also with the expectations of the european taxpayer for an accountable, impartial and efficient administration. the proposed changes make it possible, during an investigation, to overcome the reluctance which may arise on the part of the community institutions to cooperate fully in the clarification of the facts. the possible desire to conceal part of the truth must not be tolerated by vague and ambiguous texts. this leaves the administration far too much discretion and increases its discretion in a disproportionate and unacceptable way. the ombudsman needs the confidence of citizens who expect him to intervene judiciously in defence of their rights. but he must also respect the confidentiality of the information received. i therefore congratulate the rapporteur on striking the right balance between these two requirements and on proposing balanced solutions which strengthen the effectiveness of the ombudsman's mission as a moral authority, the transparency of the community institutions and which, in the spirit of the new charter, confirm the right of every european citizen to good governance and good administration.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr audy for his excellent report on the 2006 annual report of the european investment bank. i think it is very important and this report reflects that, the productive dialogue established between the european investment bank and parliament in recent years, which is beneficial for something so important, both for this parliament and for the financial institution, as democratic transparency. the eib contributes significantly to the implementation and development of many european policies and we should therefore welcome the quality of this dialogue. this dialogue is undoubtedly being strengthened under the presidency of mr maystadt. the european investment bank's activity is also being strengthened under the new financial framework, the new financial perspective of the european union for the period 2007-13. obviously, we are discussing the 2006 report. the report does not yet cover the development of these perspectives in this first period of fifteen to sixteen months, but with the new financial instruments put in place thanks to these new perspectives, this cooperation will continue to take place and expand its ambition and its effects in many fields: in research and development policies, regional development, transeuropean networks, support for small and mediumsized enterprises... the new external mandate of the eib has already been adopted in the field of external action of the european investment bank, on the basis of the financial perspective. and not only at the bank itself, but also within the european investment bank group, cooperation with the european investment fund is being strengthened. one example of this is the jeremy programme. we are also pleased with the tripartite agreement between the european investment bank, the ebrd - the european bank for reconstruction and development - and the commission on their respective activities in the eastern neighbourhood of the european union, and also with the development of the new femip to which mr audy referred, which is doing a great deal of work, and are examples of an increasingly close link between the bank's action and the external action of the european union. the report by mr audy highlights, and i think it does, the potential of the european investment bank to develop innovative financing instruments which can have a huge multiplier effect on the resources available in the european budget to develop a whole range of policies. the commission is aware of this potential. not only have we already made some agreements with the european investment bank, and these have been approved by the council and this parliament, to do more with the same budgetary resources in areas such as the transeuropean networks or also research and development policy, but we are considering, in the framework of the review of the community budget which we will propose for debate at the end of 2008 or the beginning of 2009, to extend these innovative financing mechanisms, and the consequent multiplication of the capacity for action through the available budgetary resources, to other priority areas such as energy or climate change. as regards the cooperation mechanisms with the bank, i would also like to inform the honourable members that we are now finalising the negotiation with the bank of a new memorandum of understanding which is intended to cover all our cooperation relations and which we hope will make them even more effective. i cannot give you an answer to the suggestion of the rapporteur, mr audy, which i share as a concern, as to what is the appropriate solution for the european investment bank to be supervised as a financial institution. i do not have the solution, but i think it is a very relevant question on which we must all work together to provide an adequate response. finally, mr president, i would like to reiterate the commission's satisfaction at the high level of cooperation between parliament and the european investment bank, and i hope that in the future this will enable all of us, all the european institutions, to contribute more effectively to the implementation of the union's objectives.
on behalf of the pse group. the report is an example of good cooperation between the european parliament and the financial institution whose task it is to contribute to the balanced and stable development of the community by using capital markets and own resources. i congratulate the rapporteur on the good performance of the european investment bank, on the sensible proposals aimed at improving the interaction, greater efficiency and transparency of its work. the bank's report shows sufficient positive results in terms of the achievement of the union's main objectives and priorities, the geographical distribution of investments, the strategic lines and the competitive projects. new efforts need to be directed in several directions: attracting private business to implement an investment policy, including socially oriented projects, consistent with the european union's policy of social cohesion and territorial balance; finding mechanisms for external audit and control; opening offices in the new member states and new financing mechanisms. i support the part of the amendments tabled in the plenary that relates to stricter capital controls.
in writing. - i supported mr katanya's report and i would like to add that there is no simple solution to the drug problem. drug use and trafficking are destroying societies through their accompanying crime and corruption, and drug-related infectious diseases (aids, hepatitis) are a serious threat to public health. so i think that the effective response has to be something that involves not just the institutions, civil society and the media, but to develop a comprehensive program where education, religion and sports also contribute to the solution and are the barrier that keeps our children away from vice. the promotion of sports and religious instruction in school and out-of-school programmes can significantly increase children's awareness of the harmful effects of drugs. joint efforts between law enforcement and civil society organisations, in particular at local community level, can achieve some good results in relation to the implementation and development of the eu drugs strategy.
on behalf of the alde group. the dynamic process of economic and financial integration on a global scale is at the heart of the complex international economic environment. analyses of major global macroeconomic policy organisations and major global trends suggest that high levels of political and economic uncertainty will prevail over the next decade. risks are now emerging, such as rising energy prices, which are affecting agricultural prices and, in aggregate, creating inflationary pressures, as well as a food problem, limited capacity of the supply infrastructure on which international trade depends, financial shocks. i am drawing attention to risks and uncertainties not to make the dream restless, but to highlight some parameters of the international economic environment and the need for policies to correct imbalances and assist vulnerable economies. i would just like to remind you that the two main sectors that are suffering the effects of trade liberalization are manufacturing and agriculture, and rising food prices have triggered sharp protests in a number of regions around the world. in order to respond to economic and political realities, the world trade organisation, as a trading system with binding rules for international trade, should improve its working mechanisms, organisational process and decision-making process, showing more pragmatic institutional flexibility and adaptability. of course, given the fact that negotiating in a format of 150 countries with different levels of development, with different economic structures and different sectoral reforms is a very complex undertaking. but if these are offered by sofia, cotonou, santiago, brussels, the geneva debate is the mechanism for reaching agreements that progressively remove barriers.
there's a latin saying that everything natural is good. of course, this doesn't mean that artificial gmos are bad, but we don't yet have clear scientific evidence to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that they are useful. on the contrary, we have the example of the united states, where the highest tolerance for gmos is combined with the highest obesity. genetics and biotechnology are another inaccurate science. they promise much, but at the same time, we run the enormous risk of losing a lot, of losing perhaps more than we can afford, by using them. the current european union policy on a cautious approach to gmos is a good policy at the moment, given the scientific advances we have before us. but i think we must not forget european producers, and the situation that has now arisen is indeed to some extent quite unnatural, and the commission must be able to strike a balance between not discriminating against european producers and at the same time achieving a situation where european consumers can really choose whether to consume gm or non-gm crops. i am glad to be a young person in the european union and i would like to be able to make this informed choice.
what we need is a combination of solutions, a common model and principles. the report makes a good case for that. environmental protection is cheaper than remediation, but the failure to apply fair market instruments means a hidden subsidy for pollution. flexibility is needed for the green toolkit to be safe and not to break other metrics and increase the burden on citizens. the trade instruments must be combined with incentives to invest in new technologies, with compensatory instruments to overcome deficits. the individual countries are important. bulgaria, for example, is facing problems. the closure of parts of the kozloduy nuclear power plant forced the increase in production from the chp, the cost of electricity increased. this increases emissions, but low allowances are punitive and consumers bear the higher cost. without a change in the allocation of carbon dioxide allowances and without sufficient compensation for the shut down power units, the application of the remaining commercial instruments will lead to more problems. environmental economics has its social dimensions, and we shouldn't wait until 2010 or 2013 for that to happen.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr. cappato, when we talk about the annual report on human rights in the world, let's also pay attention to the following fact - at the end of april the authorities in skopje allowed themselves to detain in the middle of the night without any charge whatsoever the journalist viktor kanzurov. the only offense of kanzurov is that he has for years defended, and with completely legal means, his own and a huge number of his compatriots' historical right to be called bulgarians. after spending 24 hours in detention, kanzurov was allowed to return home, but his passport was confiscated. he is thus effectively under house arrest, with no formal charges against him yet. i am convinced that the actions of the macedonian authorities are absolutely unacceptable and violate one of the fundamental human rights - freedom of speech - especially against the background of the current dynamic development of our common european home. i am also sure that none of us will remain indifferent to such an arbitrariness that takes us back decades to the years of a dark totalitarian society that should have long since been left to history. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, colleagues, those who know me know that for me sport and everything related to physical education is a way of life. i welcome the publication of the white paper on sport in the hope that it will serve as a basis for a future coherent policy. i believe that when we talk about european policy in this area, we must think first of all about our children, their health, their future and their social integration. the promotion of sport in educational standards is an important factor for the psychological and physical development of our children, a fundamental tool for protecting their health. the adoption of the white paper and the creation of a single structure at european level that develops, promotes and implements common policies in each of the sports - from sports for children to professional sports, not forgetting, of course, people with disabilities - will offer all citizens the opportunity to participate and engage personally in society, and will also help to promote intercultural dialogue.
in writing. i would like to congratulate my colleague mavrommatis on her excellent report. i welcome the inclusion of sport in the lisbon treaty, the requirement in the 2009 budget to set a specific budget line for sport actions, and the development of measures to promote sport in the member states. i believe that today's debate is the beginning of the consolidation of a coherent european sport policy. as a member of the committee on regional development from bulgaria - a country with a poorly developed sports infrastructure, especially in the field of amateur sport - i would like to call on the european commission and the member states to make more active use of the european regional development fund and other financial instruments for investments in urban areas, infrastructure development and sports-related projects. i believe that with eu support, sport should and can become part of the sustainable development strategies of our regions, municipalities, cities and villages.
in writing. mr president, it is wonderful that the ep is discussing a white paper on sport. we need to pay attention to the need to balance the policies for the development of professional and amateur sports. the cost of high performance in sport is very high, but the funding for mass sport from childhood to retirement age must also be increased. it is necessary to create an infrastructure that allows the integration of all social groups of citizens. sports are taught early, and sports eliminate many other problems, such as drug, alcohol, and tobacco use. we must call on all member states to create free sport zones and free of drugs, alcohol, tobacco. i recently did a sociological study, and it's very clear that young people who play sports don't use drugs or alcohol. they have a very different culture of behaviour tolerance and solidarity are very important elements in which sport educates them. therefore, the participation of education in sport is of particular importance. there is something else i want to share: there are specialized sports schools and it is very important that their activities are balanced with those of the sports clubs that use athletes from them. there should be regulation of legislation - this for sports and this for education.
thank you, madam chairman. i take the floor on the cappato report because of the amendment which was proposed by the rapporteur himself, namely amendment no 1, in which our rapporteur, in a pinch, in a sleeve, begins to reason about the adequacy of the modern nation state and of national sovereignty in modern times. mr. cappato may not be very aware, that's his problem, but exactly the same ideas were propagated by the communist totalitarian regimes, who gave a shit about human rights. exactly the same thing that was written in his amendment was explained by the communists in bulgaria and other eastern european countries. and so i would recommend to mr. cappato, if he wants to continue to develop these ideas of his, let him go visit kim jong-il in north korea. there his ideas will be able to be shared and embraced, i'm sure, with open arms.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the actions of the bulgarian government in recent weeks have once again convinced us that they have absolutely no intention or desire to deal with the main problem facing our country: reform of the judiciary and internal order. instead of defending the lives and rights of citizens, the president, prime minister, prosecutor, interior minister and mayor of the capital have joined forces and use their levers of power only for political rackets against dissenters. worse still, a huge part of the media in bulgaria, which should be the biggest guarantor of the irreversibility of the democratic path of the country's development, is tied to the financial interests of the crime and the powerful of the day, becoming their fierce defenders and accomplices. anyone who has a different opinion from the ruling class is totally silenced and denied access to the public. unfortunately, all our attempts to raise and discuss these issues in bulgaria meet with the fierce resistance of the corrupt authorities, so we are forced to seek assistance from the european union and save the statehood in our country.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have another monitoring report for bulgaria. as vice-chair of the committee on regional development and as a member of the movement for rights and freedoms party, which is part of the governing majority, i am closely following the implementation of the treaty of accession of bulgaria to the european union. i am absolutely convinced that in the last month the government of our country has again dissected the problem areas of development and declared a firm will to deal with them. significantly, in order to improve the absorption of european funds, a new post of deputy prime minister was created, who will monitor and coordinate the operational programmes. it will improve communication with the european commission and ensure that commitments are implemented correctly and accurately. structural changes are underway to streamline the work of the administration in ministries and government agencies. the government has been reorganised, the legislative framework for internal order and security has been amended and senior officials have been replaced. the new minister of the interior is taking measures to fight corruption and crime. bulgaria is on its way to convergence with the member states and i believe that the european institutions will objectively assess our country's efforts.
madam president, commissioner, given the role of trade in a globalising world, we must support efforts to promote fair trade and all initiatives that contribute to sustainable economic development. the prices of raw materials influence market developments and in many cases cause economic deterioration, especially in countries with a deficit of own raw material sources. this affects the whole state of the market, the availability of raw materials. the expected high levels of oil and electricity prices can and should be overcome by efficient technologies in both extraction and processing of raw materials. improving the market situation and opportunity, enhancing diversification and security depend on this efficiency, as well as on the implementation of innovation and the maintenance of a strong research sector. as regards trade in agricultural products, the mechanism for removing pressure on producers should be given serious consideration, due to the imbalance between the purchase prices of agricultural products and raw materials and their market prices. it distorts the market, but it also means that it has a social cost.
on behalf of the alde group. europe must overcome climate change and secure the supply of natural resources. in the context of constantly rising raw material and commodity prices, this task is proving to be extremely difficult. there is a solution, and it's new technologies that will lead to a preemptive reduction of emissions on the one hand, and a more efficient and economical use of raw materials on the other. in this way, europe will play a leading role in tackling global warming and maintain its competitiveness on the global commodity market. therefore, more investment in research and new technologies should be made, taking into account the specific potential of each member state. new technologies, in particular hydrogen technologies and fuel cell development, will be crucial to overcoming energy shortages, protecting the environment and meeting the criteria of the kyoto protocol. we must bear in mind, however, that these technologies require the use of metals such as platinum, palladium, gold and others, which are integral to the new devices and facilities being developed. only by introducing new, highly efficient and environmentally safe methods for the recovery and recycling of these metals can the necessary efficient and sustainable development of hydrogen and fuel cell technologies be achieved. the establishment of a joint organisation should integrate the efforts of all parties with experience both in the direct development of hydrogen and fuel cell technologies and in the technologies for the sustainable and environmentally sound extraction of the necessary raw materials. it is necessary to encourage the new member states, which have considerable experience in this field, such as bulgaria, which has scientific teams working for many years in this field with considerable success.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption and implementation of comprehensive anti-discrimination legislation in the member states of the european union is a real achievement and an indication of the degree to which our society is sensitive to the principle of equal treatment of all citizens, irrespective of their ethnic origin, religion, sex, age, health or financial status. i support the call in mrs lynne's report for the adoption of a comprehensive directive without a hierarchy of discrimination principles. it should be noted, however, that in europe discrimination against persons belonging to ethnic or religious minorities is still among the most widespread forms of violation of their fundamental right to be treated on an equal footing with their fellow citizens by the majority. in some countries, hate speech, islamophobia and other forms of xenophobia, fuelled by stereotypes, prejudices and clichés of the past, are the cause of latent discrimination against minority ethno-religious groups. the european parliament should therefore pay close attention to the commission and the member states... (methin kazak is interrupted by the chairman)
maritime areas are definitely the places where the most integrated policy is actually applied. the seas are the multi-way communication of countries, people, activities and policies. we in bulgaria say: "the sea gathers all that is far away". as the eastern border, i insist that the black sea and the black sea region be treated as equal to all other maritime policies. modern developments are presenting maritime countries, and not only maritime countries, with serious challenges: on the one hand, the need to protect the environment, water, coastline, biodiversity, and the livelihoods of people, and on the other, the efficient use of marine resources in the interests of the development of society and of people. there are many important elements in this policy. i draw attention to the need for strict control of maritime transport and all energy projects across the seas and creating conditions for sustainable and renewable marine resources.
in writing. – we in europe must do our best to ensure that an effective maritime policy is in place which protects and pays sufficient attention to maritime issues. the report highlights areas of success, but it also points out shortcomings. in my eyes, key issues to be addressed in order to ensure such an improvement are a more coordinated cooperation and a strengthening of regional authorities and coastal communities. these local actors have to be incorporated into any new strategy since they are the ones who are in charge of the actual implementation of any such strategies. through the method of increased cooperation between different coastal entities, more must be done to improve environmental protection of local ecosystems. additionally, in order to avoid environmental harm caused by ship accidents such as the crash of oil tankers in the black sea a few months ago, i would like to see clear guidelines on seafaring in european and nearby maritime waters. this means that increased cooperation with seafaring third countries is necessary. if necessary, the european union should be ready to assist these countries with fulfilling the hopefully soon to be established stricter guidelines. we would all profit from such an approach.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs hall, on her efforts to enable all citizens of the european union from all member states to have access to mobile satellite services. thanks to the efforts of the parliament, the criterion of pan-european geographical coverage is given the highest weight. it will also be taken into account whether the systems offered by the operators provide services in remote and sparsely populated regions or other services of significant public interest, such as civil protection and disaster relief. the solution creates real opportunities for consumers and businesses in countries like my own, the republic of bulgaria, which are not at the centre of the european union, to access pan-european mobile satellite services, including access to high-speed internet, mobile multimedia applications, services related to the protection of the population in disasters and accidents, and of course, creating conditions for increasing the competitiveness of countries on the periphery of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, the report 'women in science' is a targeted report which takes account of the participation of women in one of the most important processes of development - research. it is important as a structural determinant for science and contains solutions to the very important component, namely the composition of human resources. the role of women is important in universities, in research institutes, in the private sector. the unsatisfactory state of women's participation in scientific management and decision-making processes, the low percentage of female phds, professors, academics is related to societal stereotypes and to the difficulties that accompany women's scientific careers. it is necessary to implement a flexible system of 'working hours', to develop service systems that make life easier for women, giving them the opportunity to choose and to achieve. the role of women in science should not be seen as a mere gender policy. it's a mission to harness the high potential of women without going to the other extreme - for the sake of dedication to science, women give up their natural destiny to start families and be mothers. the principle of dual priority should be applied to young women in science: family and career.
madam president, mrs oomen-ruijten has produced a very balanced and objective report on turkey which is highly commendable. there is a remarkable consensus among the neighbouring member countries that there should be a clear perpective for eu membership of turkey. this is not by chance; the neighbouring countries always know the situation better. turkey has already made immense progress in the reforms introduced to reach european democratic standards. of course much remains to be done but we have to encourage turkey in this process; we have to encourage the pro-european reform forces in turkey, both among the ruling party and the opposition. with regard to the pending constitutional decision on the ak party closure case: of course it is not acceptable. i believe we should stay calm because i am sure that turkey will find reason enough to overcome a potential crisis. we the neighbouring countries should encourage turkey and make every effort to enhance the bilateral and trilateral transborder cooperation and reach a new quality of good neighbourly relations. this includes solving all outstanding bilateral issues, such as the case with the... (the president cut off the speaker.)
the ataka delegation votes against the so-called progress report on turkey because we don't see what this progress is. what we see in turkey is a country that is ruled by an islamist party, that has an islamist president at the head of the state. a state that is nowhere near respecting human rights, a state that oppresses an entire people and wages war against an entire people for its destruction to this day - against the kurdish people. a country that is heavily militarized, in which we have a covert military junta, and where the generals point, that's where turkish politics go. a country that still occupies the territory of a member state of the european union. such a state cannot be negotiated at all until all these crucial problems are removed from objective reality.
mr president, i supported the progress report on turkey, despite the risks still facing that country on its way to the european union. i was motivated by the fact that it included texts related to the protection of human rights, the protection of women's rights in two important areas: reproductive health, ensuring equality and especially access to education. the second point i would like to make is the guarantees that the report asks for in relation to the good neighbour policy. it is necessary to overcome the still unresolved issues with the neighbouring countries, such as the problem of the bulgarian thracian refugees. this issue is also related to fundamental human rights. its dimensions go beyond the property and financial aspects. its moral aspects are especially important. of course, without looking only at the past, we want clear future action and the implementation of a treaty signed between our countries, and that is why i supported the report.
mr president, i think the rapporteur has produced a very objective and interesting report. i would like to draw attention to a few important aspects. the first is, commissioner, you yourself said that this policy has been in the making in the union for quite some time. this creates its own unique problems in the new member states. for example, in bulgaria, where there is production, scattered with many producers, small farms, where they work in a harsh atmosphere, people are not well informed, do not get a good idea of what rights, what obligations, what opportunities they have. and in this case, a kind of discrimination is being created against the new members, who have their obligation, their opportunity to catch up in what has been built up over the years in the european union. in these specific cases, a special attitude of tolerance must be created so that the things we are talking about, the legislation that is being adopted, can really come into force and the matters enshrined in union legislation can actually take place, rather than leaving people in the dark. in this connection, the question raised by the rapporteur on the codification of the legal basis is very important, as it is difficult for ordinary people to delve into complex legal acts. they should be able to understand well in codified, consolidated versions of directives and regulations what is required of them in relation to animals. the issue of funding was raised. in the difficult economic situation in bulgaria, i am not sure that many producers will be able to implement the directives without receiving serious support from the commission. and, to avoid repeating what has been said many times in this chamber, the commission must take a serious look, because it gives the impression that we are discriminating against our own producers by our high standards. the commission should seriously consider the standards to be applied to imports.
as a representative of a new member state of the european union and also as a member of the delegation for relations with the united states of america, i would like to comment on the important role of the transatlantic legislative dialogue, of which the meeting in ljubljana just a few days ago was part. i would like to express my gratitude that the topics that were included clearly show that the challenges facing some of the new member states are of interest to the european union, to the european institutions, which gives us a sense of security and protection of key interests. what i am referring to, however, are primarily the problems associated with the widely proclaimed security measures. it's about the visa regime, as well as the 100% cargo scanning requirements. these measures affect the free movement of citizens in my country, they affect first of all the possibilities for young people to have the same rights and opportunities as their peers in other countries, and on the other hand they create economic problems for countries like bulgaria with relatively small ports, which will have to bear a heavy financial burden to provide the new screening equipment. the measures will force these ports to abandon the handling of cargoes by redirecting them to larger ports. this will certainly lead to the violation of the economic interests of regions such as the one i come from, the city of varna, as well as the other black sea regions. during the meetings on visas, i informed our american colleagues, the congressmen, that the situation in bulgaria is different from that of 10-15 years ago, when young people were leaving en masse for the united states, and now the visa refusals have decreased. this is the reason for the beginning of an active dialogue between the two countries. however, i believe that bulgaria should remain loyal to the common policy of the european union and insist on the application of reciprocal measures to protect all citizens of the european union. at the same time, our american colleagues need to understand that we face common security challenges that we should be addressing by working together, not by erecting barriers in front of each other. that's why i support the resolution and the meeting that's coming up.
i would like to express my support for the joint resolution proposed and to touch, as during the legislative dialogue in ljubljana, on two issues: climate change and energy, where the two countries - the united states and europe - need to cooperate more fully. i hope that after the us presidential election, the possibilities in this regard will be strengthened. i especially hope that the legislative work in congress will enable the copenhagen conference to reach global solutions. otherwise, countries like bulgaria will be seriously affected by the decline in the competitiveness of their production and exports if we alone implement the european commission's proposals on climate change. as regards energy, cooperation should not only be on clean technologies and the setting up of a fund for this, but also in the field of nuclear energy, which is becoming increasingly important in the world and especially in countries such as china and india. we can only be partners here if the european union takes a more open approach to nuclear energy in its common policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw attention to a problem which makes us responsible for the future not only of the european union but of the world. it's about child trafficking. in the 21st century, an age of high technology and progress, there is this inhuman and too cruel problem to be silenced or mixed up with other similar problems. child trafficking is real. it is not only an assault on human rights, but an assault on the future. every child's life is a gift and a treasure and its destruction is a crime against humanity. child trafficking has cruel consequences. they call it "modern slavery". it's followed by physical and mental abuse, sexual exploitation, murder. common efforts, cooperation, cooperation and common policy are needed to limit and minimise its existence. the european commission should establish a stand-alone programme and action plan within the framework of the strategy for children and take the necessary measures to establish common structures and policies.
mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, in ten days' time, on 14 june 2008, bulgaria will pay tribute to the work and memory of alexander stamboliyski, statesman, reformer and leader of the agricultural movement. he took charge of the government of bulgaria in 1919, after two national collapses, he devoted himself to the protection of the national cause, to the modernization and democratic renewal of the country. he was overthrown in a coup in 1923. killed in the most brutal way, he forever lives on through his ideas for a free and independent bulgaria, which chose the path of creation and integration in europe. and today, 85 years after his death, stamboleski's lessons in statecraft are particularly relevant, as our country is part of the european union. the defence of national interests in the european family, the preservation of national identity and the rapid adaptation to new realities must be the consolidated efforts of all of us, citizens of a united europe, for whom so-called values are not just a concept but a certain type of behaviour, attitude and public reaction.
the bulgarian operational programmes under the european funds were among the first approved by the commission for the period 2007-2013. we must admit that as a new member state we face various difficulties in implementing them. the problems range from lack of information to irregularities, even abuses, of funds from the diseases funds, which are not overlooked by any eu member state. the bulgarian government considers the appropriation of the funds to be one of its most important tasks. this has led to radical reforms in all the institutions responsible for the funds. a deputy prime minister was also appointed to coordinate the overall process. the unsatisfactory results so far in the absorption of funds are becoming an argument for a vicious campaign of the internal opposition, which has repeatedly tried to discredit the country even here, in the plenary hall of the european parliament. references to anonymous sources predicting an apocalyptic commission report on bulgaria in july, even before it was written, are suggestions for domestic political use only, but they do not contribute to solving the problems. unfortunately, they only undermine the prestige of my country. i want to make it clear that the bulgarian state is taking radical measures in the relevant areas and has a firm will to deal with the problems that have arisen.
this report, madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, touches on very important issues relating to the protection of the seas and the identification of measures to combat illegal fishing. the need to change the existing regulatory framework is driven by the fact that this phenomenon is becoming more and more widespread and is threatening ecosystems and the fishing industry in the community. the essential issue is the fact that the rapporteur has noted that member states do not respect the common fisheries policy. the penalties imposed so far vary from one member state to another, which discriminates against certain fishermen in the european union. it is therefore very important to improve cooperation, coordination and the exchange of good practices between european countries to prevent illegal and unreported fishing. the establishment of a control system tailored to the needs of the fishing industry is a major step in this direction. in addition to environmental damage, illegal fishing has economic and social consequences that cost the legal fishing industry billions of euros a year. the ban on the import of fishery products from illegal, unreported or unregulated fishing into the european union can also have a significant impact on profits from illegal fishing. a policy of controls and strong penalties for infringers is the basis for better management of fisheries resources. in bulgaria, there are also protests by fishermen who are experiencing many difficulties. this requires us to take responsible decisions for the future of the sector. i support the report by mrs aubert.
madam president, commissioner, colleagues, we are discussing a very important report. an effective trade policy is an instrument for achieving regional or wider integration. we have the possibility of protecting the european internal economic area through imports and exports, with sound rules and procedures. the report is objective, critical but also constructive. it draws attention to several of these: bilateral, regional and multilateral mutual benefits, common regional perspectives, and the enhancement of the european union's competitiveness through trade instruments that should prevent european production from being crowded out of markets. for some countries, trade is a major driver of economic growth. import and export rules are extremely important in this respect. their implementation and control are important, especially for some of the new member states, such as bulgaria, where a higher level of exports indicates a trade deficit. in this case, access to third markets is vital. the difficult imposition of external markets on goods from the new member states, even when they fully comply with all requirements, creates conditions of unequal treatment. there should therefore be full synchronisation of legislation and of the procedures for its implementation. the work of national customs structures is essential for the proper functioning of the efficiency of the trading system, especially in the context of their extended mission in the field of the fight against counterfeiting and fraud, intellectual property rights and consumer protection. well-organised cooperation between national customs services is necessary. measures are also needed to provide a good motivation for customs services within the framework of the administrative decisions of each member state, as well as to protect and support the mission of customs structures. the establishment of specialised centres in countries which are of key importance for trade with third countries or with relevant regions may be considered. this will be useful for the implementation of an effective trade policy of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, the question of the creation of the black sea union is of strategic importance. it is a process of common future development, not only of the expansion of the european union's influence and economic cooperation, but also of good neighbourliness. the mediterranean region, with its multi-layered cultural and historical background and contemporary political and economic influence, is particularly important. i see this as a process, as a step towards a more global role for the union as a whole, rather than for individual countries. at the same time, the mediterranean axis of the development of european union policies should be linked to the eastern dimension in the union's strategic projects. the black sea area has always had its connection with the mediterranean basin, which today must also compare and equate them. only then will we have a new efficiency, an expansion of the european union's influence, policies and values. this will bring new added value to the european union's policies.
the forthcoming french presidency of the european union comes at a critical moment for the european integration process in the old continent. themes such as the sustainable development strategy, the european immigration pact, a europe of defence and the reform of the common agricultural policy are essential for europe. but the key question now is how the reform of the union and the deepening of the integration process will continue after the irish 'no'. ireland's rejection of the lisbon treaty has once again put the common will of europeans to tackle the challenges of globalisation together to the test. it is up to france, as the founder of the european idea and president nicolas sarkozy, once again to mobilise the efforts of all 27 countries and to propose a legal formula and a plan of action to overcome the lisbon crisis, because otherwise we risk the rise of centrist and nationalist passions and the freezing of the process of further enlargement of the european union. the turning point of the stage requires that we are aware of these threats and live up to the responsibilities and expectations of the majority of european citizens for whom the 'ode to joy' has already become a second national anthem.
in this parliament, in the commission and in bulgaria, there is a lot of talk about fighting corruption at the highest levels of government. but 'corruption' is not just a concept that exists for its own sake. there are real people behind it. i want to show you the face of the highest level of corruption in bulgaria. yesterday, the biggest bulgarian daily newspaper published photos of the leader of the turkish ethnic party dps, ahmed dogan, who three years ago was given the mandate to form the bulgarian government. this flickering footage shows doggan living in a huge barn registered as a four-star hotel and plunging into luxury. this is the same dogon who said that his party was surrounded by a ring of companies and that vote buying was a european practice. before trad, he stated that his main occupation was running a business, something that he as a bulgarian mp could not legally do. mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dogan is one of the heads of the bulgarian corruption ring. the destruction of this monster begins with the investigation of the ring by companies and businesses of ahmed dogan. mr. chairman, i'm giving you the newspaper to read.
earlier this evening i already introduced parliament to the face of the highest level of corruption in bulgaria, ahmed dogan and his party, the movement for rights and freedoms. now i want to give you a little bit more specific data on forest fires. it is a public secret in bulgaria that the so-called "dogan circle" of companies of his party has been cutting down the bulgarian forest every year for eight years. the easiest way for them to cover up this crime is by staging forest fires and every summer thousands of hectares of bulgarian forest are set on fire and burned. if this was once a purely bulgarian problem, today it is also at the level of the european union, because bulgaria is entitled to receive quite serious subsidies against the disasters that occur in it. but where will these subsidies come from? these subsidies will be sent to the ministry of emergency situations, which is headed by the dugan's deputy, emel etem. this ministry has already lost tens of millions of euros from the european solidarity fund because of the floods in bulgaria. and i call on you, commissioner, and you, members of parliament, to come to bulgaria and see emel etem's solidarity with its own voters, the socialist party of bulgaria's solidarity with its own voters, with the bulgarian muslims who have been living in buildings for two years now, in vans that are not fit for living, and the funds from the european solidarity fund have sunk somewhere in the debts of the ministry headed by the socialist party of bulgaria. that's why i'm raising this issue. it is a huge crime against bulgarian nature and against the european union, by literally stealing its funds. whatever disaster may happen in the future in bulgaria, it can never be compared to the disaster called the "rights and freedoms movement".
mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleague mr harangozó on his own-initiative report. special attention to vulnerable groups under the eu’s cohesion policy means we have not forgotten that the main priority of this policy is to contribute to the well-being of our citizens. the regional dimension of this issue is clear. nevertheless, in order to be able to identify the specific needs and location of the vulnerable groups, it is necessary to analyse the development strength of the small territorial units. although we could find that vulnerability is a problem at lower levels – in the poorest regions, for example – it has a bearing on the whole territory and touches upon all social categories living there. that is why the policy, strategy and actions to address the problems of vulnerable groups must be comprehensive, based on a common approach on behalf of our institutions at european, national and local level.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. − the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation 1228/1999 on access to the network for crossborder exchanges in electricity aims at the full completion of the community energy market. the economic committee's opinion focuses on improving the competitive environment and overcoming existing barriers to access to the network of new market entrants and stimulating investments that are crucial for national economies and individual consumers. regional cooperation and interaction between transmission operators contribute to the allocation of resources for interconnection and diversification of supply. for my country, bulgaria, as a border country with the european union, this is an opportunity to actively integrate into the european electricity grid. the drivers in the energy sector are demand, supply and environmental impact. decisions should take into account the momentum in the energy sector as well as its strategic importance for the development of modern economies.
madam president, i believe that this house, along with the council and commission, believes very strongly that consumer rights in the energy sector in europe should be clearly stated and well protected. we are all convinced that mechanisms need to address the shortcomings that currently exist in our systems across the european union. we also all agree that we need a tool with which to clarify and consolidate energy rights that exist in european and national legislation. we agree that this tool should be part of a broader communication strategy, of which the commission’s checklist is an important part as well. the report that mrs de vits has authored – and i would like to commend her on her work along with the work of the other shadows – is an important step contributing to this debate. it answers some of the key questions that european citizens are asking us and i would like to focus very briefly on some of these questions. european citizens want to pay for what they consume and they want to know what they pay for. so firstly, the report talks very strongly about the need to have transparent prices and insists that these prices should be based only on consumption, that invoices should be developed along best practices existing in the european union, that they should be comparable and that tariff simulators should exist so that consumers can see which company offers them a better choice. consumers want to have a choice and they want to be protected from the fear of being disconnected from the grid, and that is why the report focuses special attention on this. it talks about the need to provide safeguards against disconnection and to use this only as a last resort in member states. finally, it addresses the question of vulnerable consumers. i agree very much with gunnar hökmark who said earlier that we should not let member states get away from their responsibility. the responsibility to protect vulnerable consumers lies with the member states: that is what we pay our taxes for. ladies and gentlemen, i call on you to vote tomorrow in favour of the report as it has been submitted to plenary.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in many countries around the world there is a concept of 'energy mafia'. that's the generic term we're used to refer to dirty things in the energy industry. unlike other countries, however, the energy mafia in bulgaria makes a clear request to enter politics, and not through fair and transparent elections, but as it is always accustomed to doing - with the help of money. the newly formed party "leader" enters the political life in our country extremely aggressively and at times even approaches the rudeness and ruthlessness of the dps. both parties buy votes, but while the sdp works exclusively for the interests of turkey, the leader party and its leader hristo kovacski work only for their own account. in the last election, we had a message sent to the citizens that if they voted for this party, they would be forgiven their energy bills. mr. speaker, use the influence you have among our politicians to prevent the 2009 elections from having mps in this chamber elected in this dishonest and ugly way.
i welcome the efforts of the european institutions in the fight to reduce road accidents and their victims. the number of people killed and injured is a huge humanitarian, health, financial, social and demographic issue, and the costs of this tragedy have multiple negative implications for quality of life, sustainable development and, not least, global warming. that is why i would encourage you to initiate more forceful measures and legislation extending the scope of existing common standards and to make european best practices a binding standard of conduct for all member states. i propose a uniform approach to monitoring, control and sanctions throughout the european union, but above all a specific policy encouraging member states to maintain the level of casualties from road accidents so that it does not exceed the european union average significantly. i believe that in the long term the common european union road policy will improve the quality of road control and monitoring.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that the world today is very different and that the blocs have become a thing of the past. russia has changed a lot. russia in june 2008 is very different from russia in june 2000, for example. the european union is faced with the challenge of building and developing a new type of relationship that has no analogues. we must build these relationships with a clear understanding that what unites us is far greater than what divides us. there are many problems that we can only solve in cooperation with russia. they also touch on global issues like climate change, fighting hunger and pandemics, terrorism. there are others that are regional in nature but of great importance to the european union: energy security, trade and economic relations, relations with common neighbours. there are also issues that divide us: human rights, freedom of speech, understanding of democracy and a democratic system. but we must be pragmatic enough to develop our dialogue non-confrontationally, focusing on common goals. it's a fact that in recent years, there has been a build-up of mistrust, but now we have a chance to start a new dialogue with the new owner of the kremlin. i would like to draw attention to russia's role in the western balkans. i think we need a very active dialogue to engage russia in solving the problems in the region, to convince it to support the european union's efforts to ensure long-term stability, including through the eulex mission in kosovo. i would like the forthcoming summit to also deal with russia's role in the black sea region and to say that it is up to us whether the policy of divide and rule will be applied to us.
mr president, mr president of the council, commissioner, madam rapporteur, the need to adopt a common approach and implement an integrated policy for the safety of citizens on the roads is more than obvious. that means a few important things. firstly, prevention, improving infrastructure, improving the capacity of drivers, introducing safe technological innovation in the automotive industry. the next step is control and its implementation along the entire road safety chain. it pays tribute to the rapporteur for the initiative, the effort and the quality of this report. road safety is of utmost importance to all of us, because the measures that must be taken save lives. the smart car initiative is not just a technological solution. it's reduced risk, increased security. this is life and it should be accessible to all citizens. the preparation of this report was accompanied by a good campaign, which also makes a credit to the rapporteur.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to inform you of the violation of the rights of two bulgarian children and their parents in the netherlands. the children of rumyana ivanova, a bulgarian citizen living in the netherlands, were taken away by the social welfare office in june 2006. they're four and fourteen. the only time they were allowed to see her, the meeting was interrupted because the mother spoke in bulgarian. since that date, it's been a year since the parents have seen their children despite numerous complaints. the children are being separated from each other in violation of the law. the girl is being held in a prison for troubled children, and the boy's whereabouts are being withheld by the authorities. even the ambassador is denied a visit and no information is given. the bulgarian child protection agency and other organisations continue to send requests for children to be adopted in bulgaria in accordance with articles 5, 9 and 20 of the un convention on the rights of the child, for contact with parents, succession and their rearing in the homeland. the dutch authorities have not yet expressed a position. i am convinced that the bulgarian public, the european public, should not remain indifferent to the violation of international conventions and should not allow a second libyan case, but this time in the heart of europe. please, ladies and gentlemen, state your firm position on this matter to the dutch authorities.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the bridge is a symbol of unity, it appears on every single €50 to €5 banknote. but there is a bridge in europe that, despite being called the "bridge of friendship", still divides people. it is the only bridge between bulgaria and romania along the 350-kilometer river border of the danube river. it costs about 17 euros to cross it in both directions. the tax is illegitimate and interferes with both business and the free movement of people. it does not reflect the actual costs of maintaining the bridge. in 2007, the bulgarian side raised 12 million euros, and only 17 thousand were invested in the maintenance of the bridge. i am convinced that if the european court of justice is called upon, it will rule against this charge. but why should the citizens of ruse and gürgevo wait for this? i call on the bulgarian and romanian authorities to meet the expectations of the citizens by abolishing the toll for crossing the bridge between ruse and giurgiu. i also ask the commission to encourage the search for a solution to this pressing public problem.
mr president, in recent weeks the press has been bombarded with comments about the european commission's treatment of the various member states as an example of double standards. it is clear that each enlargement will be confronted with an increasingly strict application of the criteria. bulgaria and romania, for example, are subject to an unprecedented cooperation and verification mechanism in the field of justice and home affairs. there are undoubtedly serious problems and both sides need to keep the pace of reforms high. but is the european commission's approach the same for everyone? there are countries where organised crime has penetrated deeply and the consequences are visible: misuse of european funds, backwardness and street crime, xenophobia. however, i have not come across any official comment or proposal for appropriate measures from the commission. speaking of high-level corruption, i can only imagine what the commission's reaction would be if a bulgarian prime minister passed a law that would save him from prosecution. such actions, however, are passed over in silence when it comes to the former justice and home affairs commissioner's side. i can give you a bunch of other examples. let me be clear, i don't want compromises for bulgaria or romania, i want fair and equal treatment for every single member state.
mr president, mr commissioner, the united action of the various political groups in defence of human rights and dignity is an example of the maturity of our parliament. i regret that the epp group did not join the joint motion for a resolution, but it has a chance to support it by voting. we cannot simply watch lines that were considered impassable after world war ii cross. the italian government's plan to create a biometric database for roma is the latest provocative measure since berlusconi's return to power. i just want to remind you of his statements that immigrants are an army of evil, and his decision to criminalize illegal immigration. it shows a complete misunderstanding of the problem and a misdirection of efforts. this plan treats the roma in a way that, instead of promoting integration, actually destroys the possibilities for it and in practice seeks a solution in isolation and segregation, creates anti-roma sentiments, reinforces the fears of citizens. and we've all seen where that leads. remember the recent events in rome and naples. putting gasoline on a fire means you either want it to be bigger or you don't understand what you're doing. the roma are the largest minority in europe and perhaps the most discriminated against. in most cases, roma lack access to adequate health care, public services, schools, and jobs. tackling these problems is a european challenge and no country has succeeded alone, nor will italy. the solution must therefore be sought in cooperation between local and national authorities, with coordination and support at european level. this is why the european commission needs to develop a clearer and more financially supported policy towards the roma. this plan violates fundamental principles of the european union and is contrary to articles 12 and 13 of the treaty on european union. as guardian of the treaties, the european commission must act uncompromisingly when they are breached by any member state. in conclusion, i would just like to recall that roma integration policy was one of the key issues on which my country's readiness to become a member of the european union was assessed. i ask you, commissioner, how would you have reacted if bulgaria had implemented the italian plan for its roma? and if you declare today that the italian policy is acceptable, what do you think will be the effect of your position on the immigration policy in bulgaria?
i think that the proposal in mr corbett's report is worth considering and i think it is timely because in practice we are not putting any existing group in the european parliament in danger by adopting it. i am betting on a more efficient parliament in the next term from 2009 to 2014. we have discussed the meaning of these changes many times and at no time was it a question of restricting the ability of elected representatives in the european parliament to express their views. but since our parliament is a large parliament, perhaps the largest democratically elected parliament in the world, its essence as a european parliament is held precisely by the parliamentary groups, by the political groups, which do not represent the nations of the elected representatives who participate in them, but represent the political currents that unite the members. this is the meaning of great power, the power that both the political groups in the work of our parliament and their leaders have. i therefore believe that even now, if we go in the direction of blaming the socialists or the christian democrats for being undemocratic, we would not be right. on the contrary, i believe that this will enable us to give a much clearer profile to the political groups that will be able to form and act effectively in the next term of office of the european parliament. i also think that it is, of course, easy to speak for a political group which is not in danger of not having the necessary number of members in the next parliament. but i think that in any case the groups that exist today will be able to continue to exist in the next mandate. and besides, our presence here in this parliament depends to a large extent on the strength of the political parties we represent. we can't look at one without looking at the other. we must not therefore assume that the political life of europe is necessarily centred here in parliament and depends on the two political groups, let alone the parties we represent. and in that sense i propose that we really go to the proposed compromise and support mr. corbett's proposal.
mr president, let me begin by adding my voice to the condemnation of the attack on the indian embassy and extend our condolences, particularly to brigadier-general mehta and mr rao from the indian embassy and their families. i hope that this attack will not deter india, an important ally in the reconstruction of afghanistan, from continuing its assistance. there is a greater tragedy in afghanistan than the destruction of the buildings, and this is the destruction of human life and individuals over the last 35 years. it will take a greater effort than we can imagine and a longer time to reconstruct and help rebuild those lives in such a shattered country. the first thing, however, which afghanistan needs is more security, not less security. i welcome the fact that the report reflects a consensus, which also exists on the ground in afghanistan, that a political solution is only possible if we sustain the military pressure on the taliban and the insurgency. we have to sustain that pressure if we are to ensure a political solution to the situation. we have to support the policy of the afghanistan government that talks with taliban elements are possible only with those who accept the constitution and put their weapons down. they can return to the political process. we have to support mr karzai and the afghanistan government in retaking control of their country and in retaking control of the policy initiatives in their own country. therefore i welcome very much what commissioner ferrero-waldner said about focusing on the elections next year. afghanistan needs a strong government, a committed government that looks forward and does not look backwards towards its past. finally, let me again say that i believe that the commission is making an excellent effort in organising our assistance programmes in afghanistan. in particular the ambassador, mr kretschmer, and of course the special representative, mr vendrell, are doing an excellent job representing the european union. we need today to send a strong signal of support to our people in afghanistan, to our services and to the council to continue their work.
fellow citizens, the war in afghanistan has been going on for almost seven years. as of june 2008, the european union maintains over 23,000 military personnel. the international community is providing significant economic assistance to afghanistan, and efforts are ongoing to rebuild the country's infrastructure. as a result of all these efforts, the government now controls only one-third of afghanistan. in the light of these results, it is inexplicable to me that the european union should increase its financial assistance to afghanistan. why should european taxpayers' money be spent on initiatives with proven little effect? the desire to ensure the rule of law and improve the justice system is understandable, but will the current administration be able to uphold it, given that it cannot ensure the supremacy of its own power in the country? we're helping rebuild the afghan police force, but why do we end up with officers who violate human rights and abuse their office? it is clear that if we want afghanistan to one day cease to be a source of tension and take its rightful place in the international community, we need to seriously rethink our current policies and strategies in the european institutions.
acting president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, the energy future of europe faces two challenges. the first is a secure, sustainable and competitive supply via an efficient, operational and interconnected internal market. the second is a mutation that is essential to combat greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. on the first point in particular, and on the whole, i would like to highlight the progress made by the slovenian presidency which led to the adoption of a general guideline on the whole 'internal energy market' package at the june council. the most important element of the compromise reached is the effective separation - i emphasize the word effective - of production and supply activities on the one hand and network operations on the other. i would like to stress here the identity of the solution which the council has adopted mutatis mutandis for both the gas and electricity sectors. while several member states and the commission preferred a separation of ownership structures on the basis of ownership, member states wanted to retain some flexibility and the council accepted an option for an independent transmission system operator. this option would be available for member states in which the transmission network is owned by a vertically integrated undertaking at the date of entry into force of the directive. this option requires important adjustments to ensure the independence of transport managers in terms of decision-making capacity, of course, but also in terms of financing capacity. the system adopted seems to us to avoid conflicts of interest between the various branches of the integrated undertaking and to strike a balance between the independence of the network operator, its development plan and its investment needs on the one hand and the financial interest of the parent company on the other. particular attention has been paid to the development of networks and to ensuring a non-discriminatory compromise between network operators. the actions of these managers will be monitored by the regulatory authorities. the role and action of the regulatory authorities will be strengthened by the establishment of the much-awaited agency for the cooperation of regulators, whose creation was approved by the european parliament last month. among the other important elements of this package of liberalization of the internal market, i would like to emphasize a few points: first, the crucial subject of infrastructure and the emphasis on a ten-year investment plan at european level. it is a fundamental innovation that is a vehicle for integration and modernisation. but also the investment of third countries in transport networks, which is closely linked to energy security issues. we must look for a pragmatic solution that is appropriate to each case. the discussions in the council are progressing at this moment and i am sure that they will lead to a compromise acceptable to all the member states. the next step, ladies and gentlemen, will be to confirm this general approach by adopting a political agreement on 10 october at the energy council and then transmitting the common position in november or december. this will enable discussions between our institutions to begin in the context of a second reading. i would now like to turn to the second point. i believe that the establishment of a low-carbon economy is crucial, while respecting the choice of each member state's energy mix, of course. the objectives and investments of this overall change in the economy are long-term and pose many technological challenges for the next ten years. i would like to mention the commercial use of carbon capture and sequestration, the doubling of the production capacity of the largest wind turbines, the commercial maturity of solar photovoltaic or thermodynamic energy, second generation biofuels produced in a sustainable way, the launch on the public market of devices enabling more efficient end use of energy in construction, transport and industry, decisive advances in energy efficiency for materials, biosciences, information technologies. the council, on the basis of the commission's guidelines, adopted conclusions in february, mr commissioner, and i will mention some operational elements. firstly, the setting up and launching of these six industrial initiatives proposed by the commission. there are wind, solar, bioenergy, co2 capture, transport and storage, electricity grids and finally sustainable nuclear fission, support and stimulation of research efforts, particularly in the field of energy efficiency, and finally the establishment of agreements between public authorities, industry and researchers, aimed at supporting the objectives set out in the strategic plan. in conclusion, i would like to thank the commission and the rapporteurs for the work they have done so far and i hope that our positions will converge at the second reading on the internal energy market.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am very pleased to be here again today to discuss the second part of the internal energy market package, namely gas. last month this house discussed electricity and the agency. many amendments are very similar for gas and i will not go into all the points which were raised when we discussed electricity. let me first of all congratulate the rapporteurs, mr la russa and mr paparizov, on their excellent reports, as well as the shadow rapporteurs and all the members of the committees involved. you have managed to maintain a high-quality debate, taking into account very short deadlines for rather complicated legislation. let me explain why gas market liberalisation is as essential as electricity market liberalisation for a competitive, sustainable and secure energy supply in the european union. i will also stress that they require the same legislative measures. gas is one of the main energy sources in the eu for both industry and households. energy prices are spiking: now, more than ever, eu consumers need a competitive gas market so that they pay only the cost for efficient supply. moreover, the electricity market will not function properly if the gas market does not function properly. i would like to quote the international energy agency: ‘in many regions, gas-fired plant sets the price of electricity a significant proportion of the time. expensive gas therefore means expensive electricity. ... policymakers must appreciate the growing intertwining of gas and electricity industries, and design markets and regulatory systems accordingly.’ this is even more the case at a time when we need more renewable energy. as the wind and sun do not always function as we would wish, electricity production is difficult to predict. it needs the back-up of a source for electricity production that is predictable and very flexible, and this is gas. gas is also the cleanest of all fossil fuels. if we want to reduce carbon emissions and combat climate change, it is one of the very efficient ways, but we need to make sure that our gas supply is competitive. security of supply is also important. the best way to guarantee a secure gas supply to the eu is by having one internal market for 500 million consumers. the eu is loud and clear if it speaks with one voice. it is very incomprehensible if 27 voices speak at the same time. in a common market we need to work together because we have one common interest. all these arguments underline the importance of measures on which we will take up a position today. i am glad to say that they support most of your amendments. we need effective independence of system operators to ensure investments and optimal network use. for the commission, ownership unbundling is the most efficient way to achieve this independence. but not everybody agrees and, as you know, the council has reached agreement on the independent transmission operator option. i believe that an alternative to just ownership unbundling should be given a chance, just as europe was built using a step-by-step approach. you have asked for a stronger agency. i agree with you on the principle, but we need to stay within the boundaries of the treaty. we are bound by the treaty and so-called meroni jurisprudence of the court of justice. in particular, we need comitology to make codes binding. the agency can then control the procedure and the implementation. a strong agency is not in conflict with comitology. on the contrary, the agency needs guidelines to frame its powers so that it can take individual binding decisions on market players. access to storage and lng is as important as access to the networks. we welcome your efforts to improve access to storage in the directive. to make sure that these access rules are effective, we need legal unbundling of the storage operators. transparency is also the key part of our proposals that you have underlined in the previous votes. transparency should be the rule and confidentiality the exception, not only for network use but also for balancing, storage and lng. i am pleased to see that many of the horizontal concerns, as regards the protection of vulnerable customers and the fight against energy poverty, have also been taken up in the gas report. these elements are essential in the implementation of market opening and should be strengthened. the commission will look carefully at the wording in order to respect the principle of subsidiarity. it is important to confirm again that our policy should not prevent proper investment signals and market entry. i think the council has clearly indicated its wish to try to find a solution at second reading. i can assure you that the commission will play a very constructive role in finding the solution that is beneficial for all eu citizens and developing our strength, which is the internal energy market. on the second report, i would like to congratulate mr buzek for his excellent report and express my appreciation for the committee on industry, research and energy’s support for the strategic energy technology (set) plan initiative. it seems that i have already overstepped my time limit. we have worked very closely with my colleague janez potočnik and so i will join in his views on this very important proposal, not just because i very much appreciate what mr buzek has done but because we really worked together in the commission to move this dossier ahead.
member of the commission. − mr president, i should like to say a few words on our joint enterprise – the set plan. we all know that on energy and climate change we face an enormous challenge. it is perhaps the defining challenge of the 21st century. let us be under no illusions that it will be easy. the targets we have set for europe for 2020 are an important milestone, but they are no more than that. a much more profound change is needed in the longer term: a complete overhaul of the energy systems that have delivered our current prosperity and wealth. to fulfil our promises we will need new knowledge and new tools. these will be delivered by research and innovation in energy technologies. that is why the set plan is so important for europe. we need to snap out of the lethargy that has characterised energy innovation in recent decades. we have to invest more and better. we need a new mind-set in the way we work together in europe to develop and deploy such technologies. i very much welcome parliament’s report on the set plan. it shows that there is a solid consensus at eu level for effective action in this area. of course, we do not all agree on which technologies we need but, as we know, it is up to each member state to decide on its preferences on the basis of their preferred energy mix, indigenous resource base and exploitation potential. but more important than what we disagree on, for me, is what we all agree on. we agree on the crucial importance of energy savings and energy efficiency. we agree that the capacity of the european research base has to be enlarged, strengthened and freed up to work in a much more dynamic and transnational manner. we agree on the need for more resources, public and private. and we agree on the need for enhanced international cooperation to face a global challenge. you know my ambitions for the eu research policy and the development of the european research area. the set plan and the development of our research policy go hand in hand. i see it as a pioneer in many respects, including era initiatives such as joint programming. i believe that the set plan will start a process that will act as a model for the organisation of research and innovation activities within europe, a process that will change the way we do research in europe and one that will ultimately change europe. last week i was present at the annual meeting of the dfg – the german research council. their president, matthias kleiner, said something memorable: a vision without action is a daydream; action without a vision is a nightmare. there is probably no better example of how true that statement is than the set plan we are discussing today. we need a clear vision and we have to act urgently.
the rapporteur. mr president, the debate and vote in the july plenary session on the regulation on access conditions to gas transmission networks will complete, alongside mr la russa's report, the debate on the third energy package. i think that on this basis i can first of all express my gratitude to all the shadow rapporteurs with whom i worked during the preparation of the report, and to the rapporteurs on the other two regulations, with whom we have reached a common approach to the problems of the third energy package. i would like to point out in particular that in our work we have confirmed the commission's proposals for the creation of a network of transmission system operators, but we have limited their functions to the specific obligation to carry out technical tasks, to develop the network, and not to create trade rules. in our proposals we have given a huge role to the future agency for the cooperation of national regulators. we believe that this agency is the important body which, under the commission's direction, should determine the main directions and guidelines for the development of the energy market, including the gas market. in this sense, the agency will not only have the task of approving the codes, which are at this stage voluntary, but, according to the latest proposals we are making, it will also be able to propose, through the commission, that certain codes be made compulsory by means of comitology. i think that the texts on regional initiatives are of great importance for the development of the market. this regional investment plan, which will be developed on the basis of the ten-year investment plan, will effectively help the member states to cooperate at regional level as a stage for a future common energy market. many other important issues related to transparency, to increasing interaction between all market participants, are addressed in the report. i am very encouraged by what commissioner piebalgs has said about his attitude to our proposals on the agency and i believe that we can find, within the principles of the meroni case and within the proposals of parliament, an agency that will be viable - an agency that will be parallel to the efforts of the commission in developing the market. at the same time, i am very encouraged by what happened on 6 june in the council and i believe that a good basis for compromise has been found. i am happy that commissioner piebalgs mentioned today this possible compromise unlike at the last meeting when we discussed electricity. i believe that with the support of the commission, and of course in the trialogue that will develop, it will be possible to find a solution possibly by the end of the year. i am a bit discouraged by the delays put forward by the french presidency. i believe we could work more expeditiously to keep the previous european council wish that we finish the work by the end of this year, and not the end of this term, which would mean the middle of next year.
i call on the commission to take account of the potential of the new member states, including bulgaria, in the development and application of new energy technologies. the commission should put in place research support mechanisms to meet the 2020 targets and to reduce greenhouse gases by 60 to 80% by 2050. low-carbon and decarbonising technologies for electricity and heat generation must be brought to market. these objectives, as well as renewables, can only be achieved through the coordinated use of the european union's full innovation potential. i would like to call for better cooperation between member states in the development of new energy technologies. the diversity of national rules and technical specifications fragment the market and hamper industrial investment in risky technologies. i therefore call on the commission once again to take account of the potential of the new member states, including bulgaria, in the development and application of new energy technologies.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is very clear that there is very strong convergence of views on the three reports. again i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr buzek, mr la russa and mr paparizov, for developing such a type of consensus. we know that we are looking for secure, sustainable and affordable energy supplies and at the same time we also now realise that the change in the energy sector came a bit earlier than everybody anticipated. that requires us to take much faster action and to be more determined. i would mention one particular synergy that i have seen and that is very relevant. yesterday i visited the institute of technical thermodynamics, not very far from strasbourg, in stuttgart. they have a research project on how to increase the efficiency of energy supply, combining the cycle of gas turbines and fuel cells, so in a way trying to rely on existing energy sources and increasing their efficiency with new technology. they are advancing reasonably well but there are a lot of technical challenges. to really move ahead we need more support for such a type of project. but, at the same time, we also understand that, if there is no competition in the market, these projects will always stay in laboratories. so we need to act in both ways to continue. for the internal market package, i believe that now, after the vote, it is very necessary for all three institutions to move ahead rapidly to wrap this thing up and go on to the implementation stage. the commission is committed to really doing everything to find a fast compromise in the second reading and to get the package agreed. concerning the strategic energy review: it is at the start of the process. the technology plan is only the starting point. we will still need a lot of measures to really move ahead. one of the measures that i have promised to my colleagues and also here in parliament is a communication on the financing of low-carbon energy sources, but this is not the only one. we believe that there are a lot of other measures needed if we are to really move ahead. very wise words were said at the time of the first oil crisis. we do not have too much oil but we have ideas. i believe – at least this is my opinion and it was said in the debate – we really need to use the ideas that we have. we do not have too much oil left in the soil in the european union. commission’s position on amendments by parliament paparizov report (a6-0253/2008) the commission can accept the following amendments: 2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14, 16, 17, 25, 31, 39, 41, 43, 44. the commission can partially accept the following amendments: 1, 11, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 26, 27, 29, 30, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 46, 47, 49, 50, 51, 53. the commission cannot accept the following amendments: 4, 7, 13, 15, 23, 28, 40, 42, 45, 48, 52, 54. la russa report (a6-0257/2008) the commission can accept the following amendments: 2, 3, 7, 16, 20, 24, 27, 31, 32, 33, 34, 36, 40, 44, 50, 56, 60, 64, 73, 74, 87, 92, 98, 99, 100, 101, 102, 103, 112, 120, 122, 124, 136, 140, 142. the commission can partially accept the following amendments: 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 17, 21, 23, 25, 26, 28, 29, 35, 45, 46, 48, 49, 51, 52, 53, 55, 61, 63, 64, 68, 69, 75, 76, 77, 78, 80, 81, 84, 85, 86, 88, 91, 93, 94, 95, 96, 104, 107, 111, 115, 117, 118, 119, 125, 127, 132, 135, 138, 139, 141, 143. the commission cannot accept the following amendments: 1, 4, 10, 14, 15, 18, 19, 22, 30, 37, 38, 39, 41, 42, 43, 47, 54, 57, 58, 59, 62, 65, 66, 67, 70, 71, 72, 79, 82, 83, 89, 90, 97, 105, 106, 108, 109, 110, 113, 114, 116, 121, 123, 126, 128, 129, 130, 131, 133, 134, 137, 144, 145.
rapporteur. − madam president, i was very much reassured by the debate and by what my colleagues have said in favour of rules, in favour of strong demands that may be made obligatory, in favour of a strong agency. it is clear that gas is not a market in which there is free competition; 90% of contracts are long-term, so it is very important to have strong rules and not to solve the problems by a single unbundling model. that was said in this chamber and i think this was a good message for the next stage of negotiations. what was very important was the support for my proposals on the 10-year plan, on the development of regional initiatives that will become the basis for a common market: we should not be ideological; as many of our colleagues have said, we should be pragmatic and develop a transparent market with a clear set of rules. what was said in the debate about the role of the different participants in the markets was also very important. it is true that entsog, the new body, may develop a lot of technical codes, but it is also true that the agency, based on the national regulators’ initiatives and on their experience, could develop very important principles for the development of these codes, and together with the commission ensure that this market is regulated by rules that will be applied by all. i would not be very happy to over-develop the control mechanisms within the different companies, so i believe the compromise that has been developed in the council would be a basis that could be applicable both to gas and electricity and could open the way to speedier resolution of the third energy package, because it contains a lot of new improvements both for consumers and concerning transparency. it would be a pity to postpone, for purely ideological reasons, this package, which is very important and much needed for the development of our energy independence.
mr president, i believe that this house, together with the commission and the council and every politician in europe, is convinced that the protection of an individual’s human rights is much more a fundamental duty in times of war and terrorism than it is in times of peace and security. i believe we share this understanding. this is the understanding that is also shared by the israeli supreme court. in a number of decisions the israeli supreme court has upheld the rights of both palestinian prisoners and petitioners against the actions of the israeli defence forces or government. let me remind you that in 1991, as israel was expecting an attack with chemical and biological weapons, its supreme court upheld a petition that literally said that the power of society to stand up against its enemies is based on its recognition that it is fighting for values that deserve protection. the best partner in defending the rights of palestinian prisoners in israel is the israeli supreme court. i believe that this legal system in a democratic country like israel should be addressed with all concerns that members here have. but i ask the members of this house: which convention protects the rights of those who have been kidnapped or terrorised or killed in the last number of years? under what court was alan johnson allowed to appeal his kidnapping? what visitation rights were given to gilad shalit? what rights did ophir rakhum, aged 16, have? what legal protection was he granted? i urge the members of this house, i urge them in all honesty and with all my heart, to stand up and support the commission and the council in their balanced approach towards this conflict and towards protecting the rights of those whose rights have been infringed. we should not take a side which will undermine the ability of the european union to stand up and support the peace process in the middle east as it is now doing.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in early july, philip dimitrov, our first democratically elected prime minister of bulgaria, retired from politics. filip dimitrov was among the founders of the democratic opposition in bulgaria, took over the leadership of the country from the collapsed communist regime in the early 1990s, was a representative in the european parliament and, most recently, deputy chairman of the bulgarian national assembly. in all the 18 years that mr. dimitrov was in politics, for all of us who knew him, he served as an example of honesty, openness and a man who believed in the european, transatlantic choice of our country, in freedom of speech, in democracy and in human rights. i am convinced that despite his retirement from politics, he will continue with his advice and his efforts to help all of us to restore the image of our country that it deserves to have because of the efforts of people like philip dimitrov.
rapporteur. − mr president, madam commissioner, colleagues, and interpreters who are staying this late on such an interesting day as today with the european council discussing georgia, i hope you will have a little time and energy to focus on another report which is, despite its technicality, quite important for all of us. it goes back to an issue raised in this house when the fourth motor insurance directive was adopted. back then, this house decided to ask the commission to undertake a more in-depth study of a number of questions that were raised by parliament but were not addressed in the fourth motor insurance directive itself. namely these three sets of questions: the first being to look into whether the national penalty provisions are effectively implemented across the european union; then to look at how the claims representative system set up under the directive functions and whether there is a need to harmonise across the european union; and finally to look at perhaps the most important and controversial issue that is intimately connected to questions raised by consumers which is whether the current availability of voluntary legal expenses schemes for motor insurance in europe should be converted into a compulsory scheme to cover cross-border accidents across the european union. let me start with the last question because that is perhaps the most important question and clearly one of the questions which is of most interest to european consumers. i myself when i went looking into this report was very much tempted to argue for harmonisation and to argue for compulsory legal expenses insurance across the european union. but detailed study suggested that that might not be in the interests of the consumers or in the interests of the european insurance industry. it would, if that were adopted, raise the costs of motor insurance for consumers in many member states. it would create incentives for higher and unjustified claims to be made. it would create many delays in addressing existing claims and it would create a very strong disincentive for people to go for out-of-court settlements. finally, it would create a very strong and unfortunate burden on the judicial systems of our member states, something which i do not believe any one of us really wants to do. so perhaps the other approach which this report suggests is the better approach and that is to increase awareness of existing voluntary schemes across the european union. now, in many of the old member states, they exist and function quite well and are now developing in the new member states. in the new member states in particular they need to be promoted more, perhaps through including them in pre-contractual information on taking out such options across the european union with a particular focus on new member states. as far as the question of claims representatives is concerned, the european commission did undertake a study. we looked at that study very carefully. we consulted with industry and we consulted with consumer organisations across the european union, and national information centres have been set up in all member states. through these national information centres, consumers can pursue their claims and can find the information that they need. now what we do need to do there is to make consumers actually more aware of the existing system rather than try to set up a new system on top of it. finally, on the question of national penalty provisions and whether to harmonise them or not, the report argues that we should uphold the principle of subsidiarity. that means that existing national penalty provisions in european member states have to be upheld. there is no need to harmonise. there is, however, a need for the european commission to monitor the situation in more detail across the european union and make sure that, when national authorities do need help, they receive that help from the european commission. this is the gist of the report that we are debating tonight.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me thank you once more for the very useful piece of work which mr mladenov presented with the help of his colleagues. it is very useful for the commission as well. the commission is preparing a study dealing with compensation levels awarded to cross-border victims and this issue was raised by mrs wallis and some other colleagues. we are aiming in this study at obtaining an objective, well-founded and evidence-based analysis of the issue. the study is under way and the commission is examining the second interim report. mr harbour also mentioned that we need to be very concrete in our work and cooperate firmly on this issue to make the internal market more complete both for businesses and for consumers. it is very important for this cooperation to be straightened up. i am really more than glad to see that mr mladenov’s report is doing this through the good set-up of the pieces of his work and also has such nice and meaningful support from his colleagues. once more, congratulations and thank you.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner and my colleagues for their very interesting and insightful comments on this report. i am a firm believer that the best-protected consumer is the consumer who is best informed on their rights and can defend those rights based on the information provided. we as legislators need to make sure that consumers receive information and are free to make the choice of whether to take certain protection against a certain risk or not, rather than to impose a uniform level on all of them. mrs wallis, andreas schwab and mr burke raised extremely important points that go beyond the very limited scope of this report. i am very happy that commissioner kuneva has said that the commission will pursue a further study of many of the questions raised in this house. i am convinced that parliament will look very carefully at the study that the commission produces, precisely to go back and look at the questions that mr burke has raised, which are absolutely valid and an increasing matter of discussion in many member states, including my own. mr schwab raised the question of a uniform approach to damages, which is a very valid question for all of us. i hope that the commission’s study will address that issue. let me also say a couple of things about the follow-up to this report. i hope that the commission will take very seriously its responsibility to monitor national authorities’ implementation of existing penalty provisions. indeed, when we were gathering information in order to put this report together, a small number of member states were not very forthcoming in providing information on how the system functions in their societies, but we did manage to receive an adequate reply in the end. looking carefully at how the system functions and at how it can be improved in the future is an important task that i am sure the commission will take very seriously in the months and years to come.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation. but think of what that would do to the people who run our country. if bulgaria stops tax evasion, i assure you that in the next election the liberals from the muslim party dps will not get half the percentage they are getting now. if the theft of public funds in this country is stopped once and for all, the socialists will have no way to fund their campaigns anymore and consequently their ridiculous initiatives. as a member of ataka party, i will support this report because ataka is the only party in bulgaria that works to stop the embezzlement of state funds and ataka is the party whose program is based on a firm commitment to review all the dark and dirty deals that have damaged the state budget and benefited not one or two political forces so far. thank you for your attention.
mr. president, i wish to inform the house that in violation of the european communities immunities act, on july 30th i was arrested and beaten by the police, and i was threatened with having my throat cut. it is a shame that parliament has not yet taken any action on this crime that has been committed against me. and i would like to ask the colleagues who are gathered in this room: what are you waiting for, colleagues, to actually slit my throat? make good on their threats and kill me? what are you waiting for? a terrible injustice has been committed against a member of the european parliament and you are silent. thank you for your attention.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the youth in action programme is a tool to help us engage our children in constructive activities that build in them a spirit of leadership, solidarity and tolerance. at the same time, it is the best way to show young people that we are concerned about solving their problems and to involve them in the idea of a common european home! the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's youth policy, including on the implementation of the union's youth policy. promoting initiative, reducing administrative burdens and achieving the highest level of transparency are among the main priorities of this parliament. ms bacelli proposes solutions that reduce the time it takes for funds to reach the winning projects, which is a positive sign for young people. the amendments also confirm the european parliament's role in controlling the spending of community funds. that is why i voted in favour of the report on amendments to the youth in action programme. i congratulate the rapporteur on a job well done!
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i'm amazed at how many things have been said in this room today, and no one has stressed the need to preserve the confidentiality of correspondence. i urge you, when discussing something so important, in no way to take the example of the united states. you know that using the pretext called "combating terrorism and piracy" the supranational oligarchy is trying to put as many citizens as possible under total, unconditional and unaccountable control of civil society. the confidentiality of our personal correspondence must be preserved at all costs. i repeat: at any cost! in bulgaria, all phone calls are now monitored. starting next year, the government wants full and unfettered access to all log files and e-mail exchanges from every computer. this is not done out of helplessness. in bulgaria, as in europe, there are enough literate and trained professionals who can fight against any kind of computer crime. this is done, i repeat, in order to put the citizens under total control. the right to liberty also guarantees our right to human dignity. anyone who tries to take away our dignity should be reprimanded and exposed, and not given the media comfort to promote their intentions in this way. a while ago, there was a big debate in bulgaria about the issue of citizens' rights in the digital world. the only conclusion that was drawn then was that whatever the citizens wanted, they got what they had to get. i absolutely firmly guarantee to all citizens in bulgaria that the ataka party will abolish all attacks on correspondence and internet surveillance at the beginning of its rule next year. in conclusion, i want to say that if once our right to private correspondence is restricted, it will always remain so. even if terrorists start using pigeons for their correspondence. he who trades his freedom for security deserves neither his freedom nor his security. thank you for your attention.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, i find this report very important and very necessary. the environment that surrounds us all the time is extremely important in shaping attitudes, behaviors, attitudes to problems. including equality. marketing, advertising, mass media, the internet and television can provoke both strong positive and very negative attitudes towards the idea of gender equality. without restricting the freedom of the media, marketing and advertising organizations and institutions, without imposing censorship, we must think about the negative consequences, condemn the depiction of women in a negative light, as objects that provoke violence, sexism or the depiction of them as combining "hot" female images with even hotter, tempting alcoholic beverages. isn't that humiliating? because we understand equality as a partnership, we believe that the tolerance of marketing and advertising for this issue applies equally to men. advertising and marketing should create a pathway to understanding equality, reflecting ethical models of equality between men and women, rather than distorting the philosophy of equality for profit. so marketing and advertising have to create an environment for social understanding, for social perspective. the report stresses the need to promote the principles of gender equality in the media through programmes and materials aimed at different age groups, promoting good practices of respect, respect for gender differences, non-discrimination. this will form a culture of equality and create equality.
on behalf of the alde group. the inclusion of hydrogen-powered vehicles in the overall regulatory framework of the european community is of paramount importance because the type-approval procedures currently in place do not ensure that vehicles of the same quality can be marketed throughout the european union. the adoption of a european union regulation would ensure that all hydrogen-powered vehicles placed on the market are manufactured, tested and identified in accordance with a single standard and that they have at least the same level of safety as conventional vehicles. the single regulation would also ensure harmonisation of efforts to produce hydrogen fuel in an energy-efficient manner so that the overall environmental balance of the introduction of hydrogen as a fuel in motor vehicles is positive. the pan-european regulation should also provide uniform requirements for the monitoring of these motor vehicles and the necessary infrastructure - refuelling stations. the adoption of a european union regulation would ensure the application of the uniform requirements also with regard to the production and operation of hydrogen-powered vehicles produced in third countries - the united states of america, the asian economic community - and would help to protect the interests of europe. let me point out that in the absence of action at european union level, member states would adopt divergent standards for hydrogen-powered vehicles, which would lead to disadvantages for the single market, economies of scale and delays in vehicle development. once one, and only one, approval is sufficient for each type of vehicle to be placed on the european union market, the member states of the european union should open up to hydrogen-powered vehicles. the approval will accelerate the deployment of this environmentally friendly vehicle propulsion technology, which in turn will allow the environmental benefits of using hydrogen-powered vehicles to be delivered sooner. last but not least, investment in the production of hydrogen vehicles, their materials and their monitoring facilities would receive a further boost, which would help to accelerate the introduction of hydrogen technology in the countries of the european union.
in writing. dear mr pöttering, mrs flautre, most of you have been in opposition at one time or another in your political life. you know that experience where the government pretends you don't exist, and you expose them for their theft and deception. but right now, bulgaria is ruled by the descendants of terrorists and outright fascists. this is what the triple coalition is made of: atheists who bombed churches to impress the comintern, such as the bsp, a party formed around the successor of boris iii who brought bulgaria into world war ii and did not miss kissing hitler - these are the thieves from the ndsv, and finally - the unconstitutional muslim party dps, which is made up of terrorists who blew up mother-child wagons just twenty years ago. these same officials beat up my colleague dimitar stoyanov on july 30, 2008. a medical examiner has identified 34 injuries sustained by the cops in uniform. against the backdrop of the eu's effective policy of applying sanctions for gross human rights violations, which you speak of in your report, i urge this parliament and every member of it to take a stand on this incident, which is a disgrace to us all, and to strongly condemn the ruling mafia in our country.
i congratulate you on your opinion, commissioner. there are many issues that the mother's health issue is related to. on the one hand, it's the health care system, on the other hand, it's the social systems related to maternal care in general. the way these two systems are synchronized is critical to the health, mental, and physical well-being of not only the mothers but also the children. thirdly, motherhood is inextricably linked to the demographic problems of each country, and it is well known that this is a serious problem. part of the maternal health problem is funding. we must call on countries to allocate sufficient funds, and those who cannot, to receive assistance so that we can reduce maternal and child mortality, to implement the necessary prevention, because every life is a gift, to provide the maximum number of health and social services for women. maternity protection also depends on the pay of the medical staff in maternity wards. this is a problem that exists in many countries, including countries in the european union, and it needs to be solved.
member of the commission. − let me start with the second question and say that we cannot call it a food crisis if we find a defective commodity in the market. it could be a food crisis if we allow this commodity to circulate freely within the european union. then we could have a crisis, because we could endanger the health of our citizens. but with the system that we have in force and which we apply very carefully and meticulously, we try to avoid these crises. we have managed on numerous (and also on recent) occasions to avoid food crises. regarding the controls on products and foodstuffs produced outside the european union, i have to say that we demand from our trading partners that they apply exactly the same controls as we apply to their internally produced foodstuffs. that is why, for example, i mentioned malaysia, where we sent our fvo and they found that the system was not really working properly, and we banned the importation of fish from malaysia. the same was done in the case of beef from brazil and, on many other occasions, from bangladesh. so we demand from our partners that, if they want to export to the european union, they abide by the hygiene rules that we apply within the union.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, mr tajani having been selected by a council of ministers, i am pleased to answer mrs raeva, especially as the subject of her question is one which has been of great personal concern to me and which is very close to my heart. in 2001, the european union set itself the goal of halving the number of people killed by 2010. this objective has been recognised by the european parliament and the council. in 2003, a european road safety action programme was adopted, setting out 60 measures to encourage better behaviour among road users, to take advantage of technical progress to make vehicles safer, to improve road infrastructure, to make commercial transport safer, to improve accident care and to develop the analysis of accident data. in order to monitor the development of the situation in this area of road safety, performance indicators have been created by the commission: number of deaths per million inhabitants, rate of seat belt and helmet use, number and percentage of persons under the influence of alcohol involved in a road accident, number and percentage of persons exceeding the speed limit. in the field of community legislation, the new directive on driving licences adopted by the european parliament and the council on 20 december 2006 is worth mentioning. the aim of the directive is to improve road safety for young road users and the free movement of citizens within the european union. we also have a directive on road infrastructure safety, which was adopted following an agreement at first reading in june 2008. then there is the proposal for a directive on the control of road traffic offences, which was submitted by the commission in 2008 and is currently being negotiated in the european parliament and the council. the commission also endeavours to promote as far as possible the exchange of good practice between member states in the field of road safety. the commission is also proposing to set up a european network of road safety experts to assist the member states in the implementation of the directive. the commission also provides financial support for the research plan for projects which may improve knowledge in specific fields and lead to future legislative proposals on the basis of sound science. the druid project 'driving under the influence of drugs, alcohol and medicine' is one example, while today the fight against driving under the influence of psychoactive substances is becoming a priority in new member states. finally, madam member, a new european action programme is being prepared for the period 2010-2020. this action programme will be the subject of a public consultation early next year and will then be adopted by the commission. these are the points mr tajani wanted to make in answer to your question.
author. - commissioner, i am very pleased to congratulate you on the efforts you have made in recent years, up to now and as commissioner responsible for transport in the european union. thank you very much also for the presentation of the summary on the common european policy on road safety. it is in this context that i would like to ask: if there are indicators, if there is certainly a very serious initiative by the european commission on road safety in europe, how is the monitoring of the implementation of these indicators ensured and how is it actually ensured that in europe we will have a reduction of at least 50% in fatalities? because for a country like bulgaria, that indicator is too high. we in europe need to have sanctions for non-compliance with these requirements.
commissioner, for the people who live by the sea, this report is satisfactory. in the context of the new european union policy, the new maritime policy, it is of great importance to implement an effective port policy. and since ports are the open doors of every country to the world, and since of the twenty-seven countries, twenty-four are considered maritime, port policy is proving to be very important for the economic development of many regions. local communities need to be involved in what is happening on their territory and be involved in the definition of port policy. the protection of the marine and coastal environment is essential because it is of the utmost importance. the bulgarian black sea has been polluted by oil spills three times this year. we must return to the question of establishing a directive to implement minimum requirements in accordance with the international convention on oil pollution.
in writing. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs flottré's report discusses the sanctions that the european union should take against any violation of human rights, no matter where in the world it occurs. but what happens in our own backyard?! once again, i want to draw your attention to the unprecedented actions of the ruling coalition in bulgaria. on july 30, the day of the vote of no confidence in the government, police violence was used against mep dimitar stoyanov. although the names of the uniformed fighters were immediately identified, to date there have been no punishments, no apology, but there has also been a blatant callousness in the attempts to cover up the case. the behavior of the employees of the ministry of internal affairs shows that they knew who they were beating, even more so that stoyanov kept his deputy card in his hand all the time and repeated who he was. the unlawful detention and beating of a member of the european parliament has not happened in the 50-year history of this institution! the case of our colleague is a dangerous blow to the basic principles of modern european democracy. it is a direct and demonstrative assault on the rights of the individual. if the repressive apparatus of the rulers did not spare the mep status of dimitar stoyanov, then what is left for the ordinary bulgarian citizen?
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. president, ladies and gentlemen, as of 30 september this year, the national 112 emergency call system will be operational in bulgaria, in accordance with directive 2002/22/ec of the european parliament and of the council. it will be available throughout the country and will ensure quick and free access to this service. the technical solution of the bulgarian 112 system uses the most modern technologies and allows to locate the caller. detailed information on the construction and operation of the system is provided by the bulgarian ministry of emergency situations to all members of the european parliament. i would like to thank you for the postponement of the criminal proceedings and the evaluation given to the bulgarian government by the european commission on the construction of the emergency call system. i take it as an expression of the community's concern for the safety and health of european citizens.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to another scandal that has erupted in bulgaria in connection with the ministry of the interior's spending of 49 million euros on the use of special intelligence tools. the cost would be justified if there was even one criminal caught and convicted thanks to the use of listening and surveillance devices. at the same time, representatives of the ministry have always claimed that they lack the basic equipment to successfully pursue criminals in bulgaria. what's coming out? after spending money on 15 military reconnaissance planes, the only thing the bulgarian police can do is report that they have not been able to see who planted the bomb in an illegal brothel in the center of the capital. the facts lead to only one possible conclusion: the ministry of internal affairs together with certain private companies rob the bulgarian taxpayer, steal it systematically, and on a huge scale. the services that are supposed to prevent crime are used only for political and economic rackets and to settle scores with the opposition.
madam president, let me start by saying that it is a rare event when a european institution is acting before and not after a problem occurs. and we are talking about a huge problem the real consequences of which will become visible in the months to come. thanks to the efforts of the rapporteur, paul rasmussen, the issue of hedge funds and private equity regulation has moved from the periphery to the centre of attention of the financial experts and policymakers. it is the european socialist party that raised the need for better regulation of the activities of hedge funds and private equity. we did it because all european policies need long-term investment, which requires long-term financing. we did it because our main goal should be to secure sustainable growth and job creation, to ensure predictability and long-term planning for families and businesses. i urge all members to support the report, which has been approved by a large majority in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. that will be a big step for parliament since we are going to request from the commission a number of legislative measures which are aimed at achieving transparency and financial stability. this is not an easy debate. it is true that this report foresees much less than we initially strived for. at the same time we are about to achieve more than seemed to be possible a few months ago. recent times and developments on the financial markets prove that we are right. now, commissioner, we are not going to blame you if you decide to act preventively, and include in your legislative proposals more than the european parliament will require from you. it is not a time for competition in regulation – since excessive regulation is not better than the lack of regulation – but it is high time to act, and you know it.
mr president, commissioner, the declaration of 2009 as the year of creativity and innovation is an opportunity to develop cultural, scientific and economic cooperation, the prospects that are emerging for each country to develop its national programme to promote the creative potential of people. as lifelong learning is important, creativity, which is at the heart of any innovation policy, is crucial to achieving new social added value. this policy shows that we rely on and develop human resources, and they are at the centre. it is important to establish a direct link between education, culture and science. institutional interaction is important to expand their perimeter. creativity and innovation affect all ages. it's also important to provide the resources and the public support that is the promotion of talent. talent develops, but it needs to be nurtured, because the driving forces in society are the powerful and talented creative individuals.
in writing. – in my opinion, people in small and isolated rural communities, and especially in mountainous areas, are disadvantaged and confronted with constraints and difficulties in everyday life. their needs should be high on our list of priorities, as basic necessities, such as access to services, are often lacking. they are under constant pressure from daily financial and practical problems, which create feelings of anxiety. looking at the situation in my country, bulgaria, i would say that predominantly the basic human needs seem to occupy the minds of the majority of rural inhabitants. therefore, long-term development strategies are often lacking. further, it becomes clear that rural policies still lag behind and do not correspond to the reality in rural areas. regional and rural development policies and measures should be decentralised in order to be adapted to local conditions. thus, there is the need to develop concrete, flexible and tailored regional and local programmes for employment and social benefits. we thus need to focus on human resources development and capacity building, with a special focus on young people, women, and minorities; and on the development of more rational policies in small and remote villages, taking into account the existing local natural and human resources as well as people’s needs.
in writing. as a representative of a country with clearly defined problems in agriculture, and in particular in mountain areas, i would like to express my support for mr ebner's report on the state and prospects of agriculture in these areas, which is of particular importance to us. in bulgaria, as the report highlights, there is a risk of depopulation and a decline in the social activity of the local population, which may even lead to the cessation of agricultural activity. for these areas, the general policies for supporting agriculture are difficult to apply (e.g. the requirement for a minimum number of animals). therefore, both specific financial support for milk producers and specific additional financial measures to be taken in response to the proposals in the report are necessary. this is the only way to preserve the animal gene pool, the human potential and the overall uniqueness of these areas, given their exceptional importance not only for individual countries but also for the eu. this will also stimulate other sectoral policies - environment, tourism, small and medium-sized businesses, and education. i therefore urge that common rules be established for direct support schemes under the common agricultural policy and for the establishment of specific support schemes for these areas.
unfortunately, recent events in pakistan are yet another strong evidence of how timely today's discussion is. and it must give a clear and unequivocal answer to two fundamental questions: firstly, whether we have actually done enough to help fight crime with the proposed document, and secondly, whether in doing so we have respected human rights and sufficiently protected the personal data of our citizens. in its long history, this document has been subject to many debates, many changes, and i would like to pay special tribute to the good work of the rapporteurs in finally achieving a sufficiently consensual and balanced text. particular attention should be paid to the amendments proposed in ms roure's report, which require the lawfulness of the purposes for which personal data are collected and compliance with convention 108, as well as mandatory information of the data subject on the processing of his data. however, there are texts proposed by the council which raise legitimate concerns. i fully support mrs roure's proposal to delete article 1 (4) of the council's proposal, which in practice excludes the application of this framework decision in cases of national security. i am convinced that if this text remains, the legislative decision we will vote on in just a few hours will provide an opportunity to circumvent the law, even abuse it, because the concept of "national security" is too general and creates many possibilities for interpretation. recently, for example, in bulgaria, there was a case where they tried to leak data, personal data, from the national health fund, and only the timely measures that the fund management took prevented this. the control functions and powers of the national supervisory authorities and the european supervisory authority should be increased. unfortunately, the analysis shows that rather and quite often they are only used to comply with specific texts of the law, but do not actually have any sanctioning or investigating functions. it is necessary to recommend to the member states of the european union that these functions be increased.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of shipping is not compromised by the fact that the majority of cargoes are transported by sea and water. the increased uncertainty in terms of possible adverse environmental impacts, terrorist acts, deliberate accidents and accidents multiplies the risks faced by shipping. the adoption of this directive is an act of major importance for the whole of the european union. the replacement of the previously voluntary code with the code increases the commitments but also the responsibilities by defining the relevant bodies and specific procedures that the parties must prepare, sign and implement. the need for member states to synchronise their legislation with this directive places a strong demand for full cooperation in its implementation between states and ship-owners, as well as for strong control and coordination. i would point out two things: the need to reflect more deeply on interaction with third countries and to define a clear port policy, because our seas are open and this is very important. secondly, the importance of the river-sea link as an intensive transport route should also be taken into account. it is obviously essential to study the incidents and their causes and consequences. this is related to the clarification of many incidents, and above all to the taking of preventive measures. in my country, in recent years alone, there have been several incidents involving human losses, material and environmental damage. this is of the utmost importance and i congratulate the rapporteur on it.
mr president, commissioner, in the context of rising energy prices, it is particularly important to ensure greater transparency in the formation of prices. it is necessary to lay down the general rules for the establishment of a single european energy market. this will create greater certainty for new investments in energy and in electricity and gas transmission networks. the third energy package should be adopted as soon as possible and the role of the commission and the council is particularly important in this respect. it strengthens the rights and independence of energy regulators and harmonises their actions through the newly created agency. it is also necessary to pay particular attention to the concept of energy poverty and to the national definition of that concept, including by ensuring through the public service mechanism of general interest a minimum winter energy supply to people below the poverty line. i believe that the problem of high energy prices could also be contained with adequate fiscal policies aimed at stimulating energy efficiency, renewable energy sources and environmentally friendly products. and we will be very interested to see the proposal that commissioner piebalgs is talking about on the energy efficiency issue.
in writing. mr president, colleagues, i would like to express my support for gabriele zimmer's report on promoting social inclusion and fighting poverty. combating child poverty is a priority for the eu, but there are numerous obstacles to proper socialisation. i want to share with you an unprecedented case in bulgaria that shows how the authorities are restricting the opportunity for thousands of children to get an education and achieve something better in their lives. the state administration subjected christian children in public schools to religious discrimination. due to the muslim holiday ramadan bayram, which is not official except in countries that profess islam, and with the tacit approval of the bulgarian ministry of education, schools in the districts of kardzhali, razgrad, trgovishte and shumen closed their doors for two days to mark the muslim holiday. despite the secular nature of bulgarian education, a religious holiday was declared in these areas! the bulgarians were forced to leave the classroom. bulgaria is a christian country and there are no provisions for national celebration of muslim holidays. how then, silently and without explanation, did the bulgarian state schools close their doors and pay homage to a non-bulgarian religious holiday, at the expense of their own children? apparently someone or some in bulgaria have an interest in leaving the classrooms of the state schools empty so that the turkish mosques can be filled.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first congratulate my colleague, mr panzeri, on his report. i was a shadow rapporteur for the epp-ed group and voted for this report. i voted in favour of this because i think that through our work on compromise we have been able to make some changes and achieve a more balanced approach to some of the proposals. at the same time, amendments proposed by our group which would have made the report more comprehensive remained unadopted. the report should certainly have included text that places inadequately high tax rates and high social payments among the main reasons for the existence and even growth of the 'grey' economy in certain sectors. in the fight against 'grey' employment, we need to bring business as an ally. smes should be relieved by reducing administrative burdens and simplifying procedures. obviously, however, discussions and changes cannot now be proposed due to the fact that they started under one rule, the report was closed and voted under another rule.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, one of the biggest challenges facing bulgaria is the transparent use of european funds. the country made serious errors in its pre-accession programmes, which led to the blocking of hundreds of millions of euros under far, isaf and sapard. the blocked funds are a serious signal from the european commission, which should be read correctly by the bulgarian government and the promised emergency measures should work in practice. both our european partners and all bulgarian citizens need to feel more will and determination in the fight against corruption and organised crime, and to ensure effective and reliable control over the use of european funds. we cannot afford to start from scratch with the financial resources of the community's structural funds, because this would be fatal for the development of the bulgarian economy, bulgarian agriculture, infrastructure, small and medium-sized businesses, and above all for the much-needed raising of the living standards of bulgarians. unfortunately, the biggest sufferers from the mistakes and weaknesses in the absorption of european funds in bulgaria are the bulgarian citizens, not the people who run the country. with our accession to the community we have been able to work with european money, but it must be done according to european rules. it's in the national interest. and let's not be under any illusions that we can correct the mistakes without reforming the system.
ladies and gentlemen, the world is facing a financial crisis whose scale and consequences no one can yet predict with absolute accuracy. it's even compared to the great depression in the united states in the 1920s. what matters most these days is our collective action to overcome it. one year before the elections, in the midst of a crisis, we are all faced with a great test. either we convince people of the meaning and role of the european project, or, on the contrary, we reinforce their scepticism. more than ever, we needed the lisbon treaty to be adopted. the joint efforts undertaken so far are already producing the first positive results. they must continue in at least three directions, because stabilising the banking sector is the first necessary but not sufficient action. we're treating the damage from the disease, not the cause. future eu-wide legislation should strengthen control and regulatory mechanisms in financial markets. we must have a large package of concrete measures to reduce the consequences of the crisis in the economy, in production and, above all, in the social sphere. last but not least, a separate specific programme of measures is needed for the new member states, which have not yet reached the level of development of the financial markets in europe but are threatened by indirect, indirect consequences of the crisis: reduced investment, higher prices for credit resources and reduced exports.
mr president, last week i visited azerbaijan with the ep delegation to observe the presidential elections, which were held mostly in line with democratic standards. we had a number of meetings with mps and high-level officials, including the minister of foreign affairs. as a result, i have to say that my initial fears that practically nothing has been done for the nabucco project deepened. azerbaijan is not even aware of the framework of this project. the european commission has so far done nothing apart from signing a general agreement of cooperation in the energy field. i think it is ridiculous to hear commissioners speaking all the time in lofty words about how important this project is for the whole of europe and at the same time leaving it to single eu countries to negotiate conditions. in my country, bulgaria, we often say that there is no smoke without fire. well, in this particular case there is too much smoke and no fire, and we all know we face very strong competition. if the commission does not get active quickly enough, the whole project will end up in smoke.
mr president, commissioner, it is particularly important that we support the broadening of the horizon of the erasmus mundus programme, by endeavouring to make this programme a real instrument for raising the quality of higher education in the member states and in the other countries included in the geography of the programme. if it is particularly important for the labour market to ensure human resource mobility, it is imperative for the single educational and economic area to ensure mobility for the acquisition of qualifications. i welcome the efforts made by the commission and the rapporteur to achieve efficiency in the implementation of the extended programme. this programme is one of the motives and an opportunity to achieve similar educational programmes, which will facilitate not only the educational process but also the future realisation of graduates and doctoral students, and will respond to the educational requirements in line with the economic priorities of the union. integration in education will be a guarantee of common development. the programme is extremely timely due to the emerging shortage of willingness to participate in doctoral programmes in many countries, as well as the changed environment for obtaining and pursuing higher education. - thank you. - thank you.
on behalf of the pse group. thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and to mrs angelilli, allow me to thank you and to congratulate you on your report. now that the main topic is the world financial crisis, it is rightly the focus of our attention. somewhat aside from the topic of computer crimes against children, we know that we could be facing a great danger at any moment, a real pandemic of illegal content on the internet. and today the bbc released a study of their own, a poll of their own, which found that three out of four children have been exposed to such harmful content. this report is not just a wake-up call, but a real program of ideas to fight illegal content on the internet. i was working on it as a shadow reporter. last week, i organized in my country, bulgaria, a large round table with police departments, representatives of the non-governmental sector, the child protection agency, mobile operators and providers. it was this report. there was a serious and in-depth discussion that forced several conclusions. first, much work needs to be done to make this problem real and serious to the european public at large. unfortunately, he often remains outside our attention. second, the education of children must begin in the family and in the school, and here the need arises for special education of parents and teachers. the individual battle is doomed, coordinated action is of great importance, the exchange of information and the creation of a database, international cooperation. many of these institutions, of which i speak, have urged the european commission to recommend to the member states that they increase the penalties in their national legislation for the distribution, production and trade of harmful and illegal content. it is also recommended that a common european legal framework for criminal proceedings be established. the programme should henceforth be known even more by the european institutions and citizens. it is of great importance that the establishment of hotlines continue. the interaction with the police authorities and the creation of this database is of great importance. a common label 'child-friendly' should also be established and parents and children should be able to identify safe sites. i am convinced that the programme will continue and after 2013, there will be additional programmes of the european union.
in writing. let me first congratulate my colleague, mrs boppui, on her excellent report. as shadow rapporteur for the epp-ed group, i voted in favour of this report in favour of good governance and partnership in the field of regional policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. at the same time, the procedures have been put in place to allow the launch of operational programmes to mobilise the structural and cohesion funds. this puts my country in a particularly difficult position. i take this report to express my hope that the funds withheld from bulgaria will be unblocked and that bulgarian citizens will be able to fully benefit from the benefits of their country's european membership. in line with the call made by the report to the member states, i call for the process of decentralisation of the implementation of regional policy in bulgaria to be stepped up in order to achieve a better functioning of the multi-level governance system in accordance with the principles of partnership and subsidiarity. thank you for your attention.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed the question of relations with russia many times in this chamber, and this in itself shows the importance of this issue, not only for the institutions but also for the citizens of the european union. i welcome your approach, commissioner, because we have to face up to the realities, we have to be fully aware of the risks, the negative consequences that an open confrontation with russia would have. we should try to learn from every conflict situation and turn it into energy for the future. we do not underestimate the seriousness of the military action in georgia, but only a preventive policy could prevent similar developments in other neighboring countries. two months ago, i asked mr. solana if after the war in georgia he expected a more accommodating russia, more willing to compromise, or on the contrary, russia would continue to behave even more confrontational and more unceremonious. he, of course, did not answer, but today i can conclude that the negative scenario will not be realized. but much depends on us. i believe the challenge for us is how to build a new relationship with russia on a pragmatic basis, but without compromising the values on which our union is built. that is why it is very important to have a clear strategy that ensures that every step forward in cooperation on economic, energy, foreign policy issues and challenges is followed by a step forward in respect for human rights and democratic reforms in russia. in conclusion, i would like to stress that it is important to put forward issues that can engage russia in the implementation of policies common to us and to it. i'm not going to count them. and i believe that the approach that the commission and the council have demonstrated so far will be preserved and that it will lead us to success. - thank you. - thank you.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the debate we are having today is taking place against the backdrop of a development in health care that is changing many things. this development is that we're going to have an increasing number of older people in our societies, for whom health is going to be the most important issue that they're going to be concerned with. you have to understand that. the more elderly people you have in society, and we're going to have more and more of them, the more important the issue of health becomes, the more important the question becomes of how we deal with the care of these people, with therapies and with medications. and what's more important is how do we make sure that these people get the information they need to not only be informed about their health, but to do the right thing to preserve their health. that is the background against which we are debating today. the subject which is of immediate concern today is the regulation on amendments to authorized medicinal products. i am very glad that a compromise has been reached. the regulation regulates the changes which are necessary for health reasons or for economic reasons when a medicinal product is already authorised. you cannot just watch a medicine that has been approved be altered in any way. this is of course something that needs to be regulated and controlled. the decisions you take today, ladies and gentlemen, will make a major contribution to ensuring that medicines are safe and effective in the future. the current law has created a number of problems which we have analysed. for example, the current legislation imposes significant financial and administrative burdens on all parties involved. this may lead - we have examples - to certain changes not being made, even though they are necessary in the interests of the patients. for example, a drug may need to be further developed by a particular body, but this is not done because the costs of the change are too high in the marketing authorisation procedure. it is therefore very important that the proposal to be adopted today should make the existing rules simpler, more precise and more flexible. the solution thus found is also in line with our better regulation agenda. i would like to thank mrs grossetête and all those who have contributed to her report for their work on this difficult dossier. i would also like to thank you for the massive support which the european parliament has already given me on many occasions in the fight against the counterfeiting of medicines. i understand, mrs grossetête, that you are impatient to see the proposal - i am too - but again, of course, quality is more important than speed. i'll tell you about the schedule. the pressure exerted by the european parliament on the fight against counterfeit medicines is useful and important. please don't think that i'm disturbed by this. on the contrary, i feel empowered by it. what's the situation? we are currently facing an alarming increase in the number of counterfeit medicines detected in the european union itself. the european union has always been perceived as a transit station for illegal products destined for third countries. i remember when we first discussed this here, i took the view that this was not really a problem for europe, but a problem in particular for africa and other less developed parts of the world. the situation has changed. it's our problem now, too. the european market itself is increasingly becoming a target for counterfeit medicines. this is a very serious threat to public health! this can cost many lives, and that is why the commission is determined to act. in its very important resolution of 12 july 2007, parliament made a very important statement, which is also the starting point for my reflections, namely that 'the imitation of medicinal products as such is not a matter of patent law'. it is very important to note this. we are not discussing intellectual property, we are not discussing patent rights, we are discussing criminal offenses. it is a criminal offence to falsify a medicinal product, whether it is a patented medicinal product or a medicinal product whose patent protection has expired. that doesn't matter at all in this question. counterfeiting is counterfeiting, and in the case of medicines, it is always criminal behaviour! parliament then said: 'it is necessary to take measures to combat counterfeiting of medicines at the level of criminal law and to strengthen the regulatory capacity of national authorities in the field of medicines legislation, rather than extending the protection of intellectual property'. in its work on the proposal to combat counterfeit medicines, the commission has followed the ideas you have presented to us. the commission will present legislation in the next few weeks to strengthen the existing legal framework. we want to ensure that, with the greatest possible degree of certainty, no counterfeit medicines can be introduced into the legal supply and distribution chain. as you know, the proposal has not yet been examined by the commission. i have not even presented it to the commission because there are still a number of very difficult issues to be clarified and i would also like to take the outcome of today's debate into account in my final decision on the proposal. but what i can already tell you are the most important elements, the pillars. as indicated, the main objective will be to strengthen the distribution chain. it is therefore necessary to ensure that the authenticity of each individual package can be verified and established at any time during the journey from the manufacturer to the consumer, i.e. the patient. this requires that the origin of the packaging and the origin of the medicinal product must be traceable at all times, all the way from the manufacturer to the patient. you know what that means. this is a very demanding demand with great technical requirements for everyone in the distribution chain, from the manufacturer to the pharmacy, and it requires large-scale investment. but i am happy to say that all those involved believe it is right and necessary and that the technical solutions for the traceability of medicines do exist. secondly, the rules governing products passing through the hands of importers must be absolutely clear and all those involved must be subject to stricter supervision. it is important to be clear that the risk at our borders may be even greater than the risk within the european union, that there is a risk of counterfeit medicines being brought into the eu from outside. this is a problem that is best tackled at the external borders. the proposal will therefore include appropriate improvements. finally, another important point is to ensure that the active substances - the main ingredients of medicines - are manufactured according to regulations with safety standards equivalent to those in the eu. ladies and gentlemen, why is this a problem? i was surprised to see that, by the way. the fact is that the active substances, that is to say the main ingredients of medicinal products, very often - indeed almost always - come from outside europe, from third countries. here we have to make sure that the active ingredients - wherever they are manufactured - are produced to the same standards as ours. this will be a very demanding and difficult task. but i believe that in our globalised world, europe needs a dynamic and competitive pharmaceutical industry to be able to take advantage of the opportunities that globalisation brings. but we also have to face the public health challenges that come with it. the commission's proposal will be moderate, reasonable and balanced, but decisive and clear in all those areas where decisiveness is necessary. our society has a right to be protected as effectively as possible against counterfeit medicines. i ask you, when we are able to discuss the commission's proposal in the very short time - a few weeks - to weigh it against this very principle: is this the best we can do to protect people in europe effectively against counterfeiting?
rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. −honourable mr president, commissioner, members of the european parliament, this report we are discussing today deals with very important issues relating to the harmonisation of the conditions for placing medicinal products on the market. as rapporteur for the opinion of the european parliament's committee on agriculture, i express my support for the commission's proposal. to date, only a small number of medicinal products fall within the scope of european legislation. products that have received only a national authorisation are not covered by the existing european legislation on modifications and are therefore subject to specific and diverse national rules. on the one hand, this is inefficient and entails significant costs for the economy, and on the other hand it affects the proper functioning of the internal market. the application of this directive would provide a legal basis for harmonisation and would bring significant benefits to consumers and the sector. it will also provide faster access to the latest medicines in all member states. in the absence of harmonised rules in this area, each country applies specific national rules. this situation creates administrative barriers and burdens for the functioning of the internal market for medicinal products, as well as different safety criteria for them. particular attention should be paid to the price member states will pay to implement the new legislation. i do not think that european countries can be called upon to amend their internal regulatory provisions to take account of the additional changes in a timeframe that is too short and involves too high a cost. i congratulate the rapporteur and ask you to support mrs grossetête's report.
i thank you, mr president, for supporting this report, which i consider to be extremely important. it is very difficult to solve the multiple problems that children face in using communication technologies with a single document or programme. but for organizational reasons, it's necessary to have this program. in the debate about the impact of new technologies, we usually talk about the social, educational, cultural and other benefits, but we are too late to think about the negative impacts. existing mechanisms to limit products with negative effects are very important to reduce risks, but we also need to have preventive programmes. the problem is that, once we have a common european programme, each member state must have its own national programme in this direction. we need to raise the awareness of the society to the problem, to teach children to use the information and communication technologies intelligently. we cannot ignore the harm of so-called computer addiction. integrated efforts are needed and this is the next role of national governments.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the signing of this agreement, because it will contribute not only to the political and economic stability of the country, but also to that of the balkans as a whole. bosnia and herzegovina has overcome a brutal ethnic war, while bulgaria is cited as an example in the balkans for the wisdom of its civil society in facilitating reconciliation. the role of education is not negligible. it is therefore necessary that the bosnian authorities focus on peace education. in addition, they should promote intercultural and interreligious dialogue to avoid conflicts between refugees, returnees and local populations. the unemployment rate will have to be reduced by giving greater importance to training programmes and reversing the brain drain among young people. regional cooperation is extremely important for the integration of the state into european structures. improving infrastructure must be a priority. i believe that the establishment of a free trade area can be beneficial and prepare the country for the adoption of european standards
the rapporteur. - thank you, madam chairman, and thank you for that reminder. as a long-time judge, i've always kept order in the courtroom. so, madam president, mr diamantouros, and fellow members, it is a great honour for me to be the rapporteur for the annual report of the ombudsman, the figure in the european institutional system called upon to defend the rights of european citizens and to oppose bad administrative practices. i would therefore like to congratulate the european ombudsman, mr diamantouros, on his dedication and professionalism in doing his job, because his work is of great importance to people. and as jean monnet said, "we are not uniting countries, we are uniting people". in this sense, i had the pleasure of working on a report which unites rather than divides the political groups in the european parliament. because it is clear that we are all elected by the european citizens and we work to protect their interests. guided by this conviction, we also found compromise options on several amendments from the other political groups. these proposals and today's debate are proof that the european parliament takes this very important mechanism for protecting european citizens extremely seriously. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues from the european people's party, the secretariat and all those who have contributed to making the report more complete. i am deeply convinced that it is through the institution of the european ombudsman that citizens can better exercise their rights in the face of bad administration, because even if there are good rules in this area, it is important to find the right application to ensure maximum protection. i believe that just as the commission is called the guardian of the treaties, so the european ombudsman is the guarantor of the proper application of community law. but he's not alone in this role. the european parliament, as the only democratically elected institution, is also called upon to defend the rights of citizens, so it is very important that the european parliament and the ombudsman work hand in hand. the report is also important because the analysis of the actual situation during the year is actually used mainly to draw lessons and make the necessary decisions for the future. because we must not forget that behind every complaint, behind every statistic, there is a human destiny that expects to receive adequate help and a solution to its problem. in my work on the report, i came to the conclusion that information is the key word. information is the starting point in this extremely important subject. the report shows that many citizens still do not know how to defend their rights under the european union in cases of maladministration. and i'll give you one proof right now: the number of inadmissible complaints is 84%. this clearly shows that the ombudsman and the european institutions together must continue in this direction, namely to inform european citizens so that they can enjoy their rights to the full. the report therefore proposes that a website be set up for all institutions to submit complaints, following the example of the interactive handbook developed by the ombudsman, so that the complainant, once the necessary details have been entered, is directed to the competent institution and his complaint is lodged directly with it. this will help to reduce the number of inadmissible complaints. i also looked at the guarantees that citizens and permanent residents of the european union know and enjoy their rights. also whether the assistance provided to them is easily accessible, fair, impartial and effective. i would like to point out the fact that there are more than 30% of complaints where no action is possible on the part of the ombudsman. this indicator covers a wide range of complaints. i think it is important that the ombudsman gives compulsory explanations to complainants as to why their complaint cannot be acted upon - this will actually be more useful to citizens. i would like to point out that ombudsmen at national, regional and local level play a key role, so their activity must be developed. in conclusion, i urge you to adopt the report because it supports constructive cooperation between the ombudsman and the institutions and bodies of the european union, and reinforces his role as an external control mechanism and a source of continuous improvement of the european administration. thank you. thank you.
ladies and gentlemen, the 2007 annual report of the european ombudsman is a testament to his extremely useful work as an advocate for citizens' rights when they are violated or even threatened by the union's institutions. i welcome the fact that the number of admissible complaints has increased, which suggests that european citizens are becoming more aware of the ombudsman's real powers. i believe that the institution must have the necessary financial and human resources to be able to carry out its mission effectively and fully. the charter of fundamental rights and the european code of good administrative behaviour should continue to serve as the model and basis for the ombudsman's action in applying the principles of good administration, such as transparency, accountability, legality and fairness, by the european institutions and bodies. in this context, the ombudsman's information and awareness-raising campaign among citizens on their rights and his powers to uphold them, as well as his cooperation with national ombudsmen in the exchange of good practices, should be strengthened. the introduction of an online handbook is a useful initiative, but the creation of a public online register of complaints would increase transparency and strengthen citizens' trust.
ombudsman.− madam president, we are under great pressure because you have to vote in about six or seven minutes, so i willoffer my excuses to all the people who spoke. i would like to thank all the members of parliament who have been gracious enough to comment favourably on my report, and i will only try to address very specific cases, if i may. let me very briefly thank mrs jäätteenmäki and mr schwab for what i take to be their particular support and their plea for the ombudsman’s efforts to increase transparency. thisis something to which i remain committed, and i pledge to redouble my efforts to do that, with the support of this body. i need your support to do that,and i ask you for it. mr martin, i would be very happy to meet you personally so that i might be able to have a chance to listen to the case and be able to respond to it. i would like to thank mr cashman and mr busuttil for their comments and encouragement. i would also like to thank the members who have spoken very favourably about the actions of the ombudsman concerning strengthening the activities and the rights of citizens in the new member states, who are in fact in greater need of becoming more familiar with the practices of the ombudsman and the union. let me now address directly the questions from ms harkin, ms auken and mr czarnecki, concerning the cases that have not been addressed. to avoid any misunderstanding, let me make very clear that every single case we have received has, in fact, been addressed. there has not been a case that has not received a response. there has never been a case in which we have not written back to the complainant. we wrote and we informed the complainant why the european ombudsman could not deal with the complaint. the 1021 cases listed as ‘no action possible’ are cases where we could not help the complainant by opening an in-depth inquiry, by transferring the case or by offering useful advice. after this came in i checked and i have some reports. in one third of all these cases the complainant had already contacted the authority that was competent to deal with the complaint, such as a national original ombudsman or the committee on petitions of the european parliament. in 20% of the cases they received, the case had already been handled by the court and i could not handle it. in 17% of the cases there was no competent body in existence that could possibly handle it. in 13% of the cases the only appropriate advice would have been to contact a lawyer, but the complainant had already done so. therefore i have tried to cover all the cases. i would like to assure you that there has never been any case in which the ombudsman has not written, explained and provided written information. i hope this addresses the questions that you raised.
member of the commission. −madam president, i would just like to reiterate my support for mrs zdravkova’s report and to thank the ombudsman for his cooperation. regarding those concrete cases mentioned, we will provide additional information. it is true that, when we address a complaint, the complainants are not always completely satisfied with the solution proposed. however, the commission always tries to deal with each and every case in a very constructive spirit,and we will continue to do so.
the rapporteur. - i would just like to take this opportunity to thank once again all the colleagues who took part in today's debate for the kind words they said about my report, my work and the work of mr diamantouros. this useful and, above all, positive discussion, i am sure, will give mr diamantouros the impetus to make even greater efforts towards better cooperation, both with the institutions and, above all, with our european citizens. i see that there are many visitors in the room, i hope that this discussion was useful to them, and most importantly interesting.
rapporteur. − mr president, as has been discussed, my oral amendment is as follows (paragraph 23): ‘proposes that the ombudsman take measures to reduce the number of complaints in such cases where no action is possible;’. the end of the paragraph has been changed.
rapporteur. −mr president, it is just to delete the words ‘by the first european ombudsman’ from the first part of the amendment.
i supported the 2009 budget and the proposal to increase it compared to the commission's draft. although insufficient to meet the great needs of all member states and to implement the priority policies to their full extent, i believe that this budget is in keeping with the union's fundamental principle of solidarity. by channelling funds to the less developed countries and regions, the financial instrument has established itself as an important factor in achieving balanced development. the cohesion fund makes a significant contribution in this respect, and is intended specifically for those member states which through it have a chance of reducing economic and social backwardness. this is particularly important for the new member states, which are in real need of the community's financial resources. i consider it unacceptable that these resources should be subject to more specific conditions than those established in the union. for bulgaria, these funds are essential to achieve catch-up and an average standard for the union. the rejection of the proposal to put funds in the cohesion fund reserve is a good decision. the proposal was linked to unclear criteria, in particular as regards the recovery of the funds withheld. i believe that the european commission and parliament have sufficient control mechanisms to monitor the effective use of european funds.
mr president, this year we commemorate the 70th anniversary of the kristallnacht pogroms. it seems that the collective memory is becoming weaker and weaker, since we face rising extremism associated with racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism and aggressive nationalism worldwide, including in european democracies. looking ahead to the 2009 european elections, the pse group is convinced that political representatives can play a positive role in the overall promotion of mutual respect and understanding. the pse group is committed to raising awareness of the value of cultural and religious diversity as a source of mutual enrichment of societies. we always underline the necessity that public personalities should refrain from statements that encourage the stigmatisation of groups of people. may i express my confusion that the epp has chosen – and still keeps – as its main partner in bulgaria a party whose leader appreciates the statesmanship of stalin, hitler and mao; who believes that the way forward to integration is to impose a list of bulgarian names on every new-born child of non-bulgarian ethnic origin; a man who says that there are bulgarian citizens in bulgaria, turkish in turkey, and if somebody is a turk they should go to turkey. i wonder if you, mr president, or the epp support the same approach for the ethnic turks in germany. i underline how important the role of the european parties is in carefully selecting its partners, because when you exchange quality for quantity, the first victims are the epp’s credibility, the stability of the national political systems and, of course, the beliefs of the ordinary right-wing voters.
i welcome the discussion of the report. it is unacceptable that the gender pay gap continues. we shouldn't just talk about equal pay for equal work. let's look at the bigger picture. the individuality of work is at the heart of any activity and it is important to have an objective assessment of its value, with clear rules, criteria and indicators for evaluation, through which higher objectivity can be achieved, eliminating discrimination with clear legislative measures. the evaluation of occupations and jobs and their pricing is an important tool. the low financial status of some professions makes them unattractive and stereotypically not taken by men but by women. improving this situation will have a positive impact on increasing women's economic independence. you can't accept low financial status, for example, for the profession of teacher, nurse, in the service sector, because in no way does it correspond to their importance for the development of society. the commission and the member states have their responsibilities here.
i congratulate mrs edith bauer on the excellent work she has done on the recommendations for the implementation of equal pay for women and men. i know that she has worked very hard to produce a document that is as realistic as possible and i hope that her recommendations will be put into practice. in my country, bulgaria, the gender pay gap is between 25 and 30 percent, and although the picture in the european union as a whole is lower, the fact is that women are paid less than men. why is that? one factor is the pay structure in some professions that are highly feminized. another reason is that no one feels responsible for the situation and therefore, no one feels truly responsible for solving the problem. the deeply rooted stereotypes and prejudices about the division of labour between the sexes not only hinder but often serve as an excuse for not solving the problems. what do we do in this situation? first, as the report states, it is a prerequisite for member states to comply with existing legislation. state policies should motivate the implementation of equal rights and equal pay. second, transparency in job evaluation and pay should become an inherent, rather than an exhibited, part of the work in companies. finally, the promotion of in-house dialogue and good communication between management and the team, especially in smes, must become part of a truly new culture of european societies and europe as a whole. once again, i congratulate mrs bauer on her skill in highlighting the problems and pointing out the solutions, and thank you for your attention.
as the rapporteur, mr galeote, and a number of colleagues have already stressed, the solidarity fund is a necessary instrument which, by its very name and purpose, aims at implementing one of the most important principles of the european union, the principle of solidarity between the member states. during the period of application of the fund, shortcomings and deficiencies have become apparent and reform is therefore necessary to overcome these shortcomings and to respond to modern threats. there is a reform mechanism, as was stressed, and the european parliament has delivered its opinion. the important thing is to take account of all the problems that can come within the scope of the fund, so that it is a really useful tool and people feel that something is being done. nobody wants an empty tool that has the potential to be useful but is difficult to use in practice. at the same time, let's be very clear that the greatest effect is achieved when you react quickly. we're still a long way from achieving such an operating system. the smaller member states do not have the capabilities of the larger ones, and we can only dream of cooperation and coordination at european level. this, of course, does not always mean more funds, as was stressed. this summer in my country, bulgaria, a massive fire in the most beautiful and hard to reach mountain rila, could only be located with the help of french fire helicopters, for which we warmly thank. but the organization and coordination of the operation took too much precious time. the citizens of the european union are eagerly awaiting effective solutions, not necessarily a lot of resources. effective solutions which, as mrs beaupuy has stressed, can even save money.
in recent years, we have been faced with an increasing number of disasters, both natural and man-made. these accidents have led to serious losses, not only of material but also, unfortunately, of human life. in my country, bulgaria, we've faced floods, droughts and forest fires in recent years. this weekend, there was an earthquake in bulgaria, which fortunately wasn't very strong. while this is a small consolation, it does highlight the need for an effective european solidarity fund. i want to emphasize that we are not the only ones in europe to suffer from such disasters. our greek neighbours, for example, faced terrible forest fires in 2007. this obliges us to do more to deal with the consequences of these disasters. it is clear that we need changes in the regulation to provide more flexible instruments. as mr berend's 2006 report rightly concludes, we need to make receiving aid faster and with fewer bureaucratic obstacles. we need to make sure that help reaches citizens when they need it, not days or even weeks later. so i welcome the lowering of the threshold and the introduction of new, fast payments that show real solidarity. it is also very important that industrial disasters are now covered in the revised proposal. if we in bulgaria suffer, for example, from an oil spill, because of a pipeline problem or a ship accident, we could get help from the solidarity fund. and finally, i'd like to give you an idea related to funding. in the long term, we can consider financing instruments such as the solidarity fund by using some of the money that has been lost as a result of the 'n+2' and 'n+3' rule. for now, however, we must first focus on the current change, and that is why i urge the commission and in particular the council to support the modification of the european solidarity fund.
the rapporteur. − the report on financial training, which will be voted on tomorrow in plenary, is of more importance than ever. it is clear that the global financial crisis we face could have been avoided if consumers had been well informed of the risks involved in taking out different types of credit. it's safe to say that if we had focused more on educating people about finance in the past, we wouldn't be facing the current situation, or at least the crisis wouldn't be of this magnitude. we need to make sure that in the future our children have the opportunity to learn and to be able to handle credit cards, credit anywhere in europe. we need to focus on student loans and pension and investment funds. these financial products have a strong impact on the daily lives of consumers and should therefore be taken into account. we should not forget that more and more young people are taking on huge amounts of debt without even suspecting the impact it will have on their lives. we worked very hard on the text of the report for several months. we had a very interesting public discussion with representatives of banks from europe and the united states, with financial institutions, and that was on the eve of the crisis. the problems were already clearly identified and the alarming signals were already being sounded during this discussion. on the other hand, we had the opportunity to see the experience and good practices of financial education in countries where it has a tradition and is constantly being improved - the uk, france, germany and other countries, to hear the opinions of those who are now going through this field. i am satisfied with the outcome of the vote on the report in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and with the commission's decision on the budgets for the allocation of the necessary funds for the project. we've also received very encouraging responses from leading financial institutions on the own-initiative report. i believe we have reached a compromise solution that satisfies all political groups, so i hope that the vote on the report tomorrow will be a great success. the current financial crisis can only be overcome by a collective effort, so we must unite and work together in this common initiative. it is time to act and ensure that european consumers have the necessary knowledge in the field of consumer credit and other types of credit, so that a similar financial disaster cannot be repeated. to achieve this, it is of the utmost importance that member states implement the measures taken and cooperate closely with each other. finally, i would like to thank very much the representatives of the european commission for the help they have given me.
in writing. i welcome the report by mrs anna hedh on the 'retail market development index' and its aim to make the internal market more sensitive to citizens' expectations and concerns. for 19 years since bulgaria has been in the so-called democratic transition, we have seen all kinds of privatization decisions by the governing bodies in our country. frappanten is the case with the admission of already proven thieves from the electricity company cez mereni to the internal market in bulgaria. the gentlemen from the cez, whom we at the atca police department have long recognized as brazen mafia, were directly exposed in their own country. 32 of their employees were arrested for blackmailing customers accused of stealing electricity. but, obviously, the corruption-ridden triple coalition in bulgaria didn't think it was enough to drive out these criminals - as the governments of canada and hungary did, and so cez continues to rob and blackmail the bulgarian taxpayer, hidden behind their privatization deals. i believe that the adoption of the internal market development index report will improve the tools for tracking the sectors to be investigated for weaknesses and breaches, will involve national consumer protection authorities in maintaining the quality of social services, and will help to restore citizens' trust in the internal market.
in writing. continuing the cap reform is an important condition for europe to maintain its leading role in the sector. of course, this should not be at the expense of either the producers or the end users. it is a well-known fact that the european union has gone from being an exporter to an importer of agricultural products. this shows that we need to balance the outcome of today's debate to make sure that the interests of all citizens are protected. i think that a lot of the commission's proposals are useful for farmers in bulgaria. moreover, due to the mismanagement by the bulgarian government in this sector and the abuses committed, the results envisaged under the pre-accession mechanisms were not achieved. that's why in recent months we've seen protests by farmers, mainly in dairy and grain production. in this context, without calling into question the liberalisation of the dairy market to the full, it is important to support the regions which are highly dependent on their dairy income. bulgaria has a large number of dairy farmers in high mountain areas and areas with specific difficulties. i therefore support the idea that more money should be allocated to their development and that a special fund should be created for milk producers.
in writing. madam commissioner,the 'school fruit offer' report is a very important step in several directions: - organising healthy and rational nutrition for young people; - preventing their health status; - creating a new model and methodology in the diet of the young generations that will gradually replace 'fast food'. it is not just about eating fruit but about developing healthy and balanced eating habits. there are enough specialists to determine the appropriate types of fruit, taking into account the relevant criteria. on the other hand, the school fruit scheme is a real support for farmers and a financial support for member states. this is particularly important for the new member states, which are experiencing difficulties in organising school meals despite the efforts made. in bulgaria, for example, there is a state-subsidised school feeding programme, but it is not able to cover the needs of all pupils and a community contribution would be extremely useful. of course, we must insist on the use of environmentally friendly products in the implementation of the programme, as well as on its effective implementation.
i would like to draw your attention to the proposed amendment no 54, which was tabled by the honourable mr deß and a group of other members. if this amendment were adopted, it would introduce a terrible double standard between the old and the new member states, because when the quota was increased, the new member states had to increase their quota only if the marketing year allowed it. i see that mr deß is still in the chamber - perhaps he can explain to me later who would have judged whether the marketing year allowed the quota of the new member states to be increased. thank god that amendment was not adopted, it was rejected by the house, which allowed me to vote for the whole report, and i am very glad that parliament did not allow two categories of member states to be created in relation to the increase in milk quotas.
the committee on employment and social affairs has adopted a report on the proposal for a directive on the coordination of social security schemes in the member states. - i congratulate mrs gaubert on her report on the directive on a uniform permit for third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of the union. i was rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs on this directive. as a representative in the european parliament from bulgaria, one of the ten member states with transitional periods, i am strongly opposed to the denial of free access to the labour market to a significant part of the european workforce. for this reason, i welcome the efforts of the european institutions to ensure equal treatment for all those who reside and work legally in the union. this directive is intended to be a horizontal instrument, taking into account that specific directives are already in force or are to be adopted. i am referring to the directives on seasonal workers, long-term residents, the 'blue card', which we are also discussing today. in drawing up the opinion, i had the support of my colleagues in our parliamentary committee and i believe that we have proposed texts which set out the rights of third-country workers in a balanced way. i would like to mention the right to education, the recognition of diplomas and certificates, working conditions, access to social security, tax relief and others. this directive provides a minimum common set of labour-related rights for third-country workers. the rights granted should therefore not exceed those guaranteed by the specific directives. it is for this reason that the european commission's proposal provides for certain conditions for the exercise of these rights. in the final version of the opinion voted by the labour committee, however, such conditions are absent. this has led to a situation where there are obvious inconsistencies both with what is envisaged in the european blue card and with what is guaranteed by other specific directives, such as that on longterm workers from third countries in the union. ladies and gentlemen, in times of financial and economic crisis, it is imperative to be realistic. as rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs, i call on you to look responsibly at and vote in the plenary on a document that is logically sound and consistent.
i congratulate you on the report, which can serve as a guide to action in the complex procedures by which expenditure is made in the european union. i make several findings from the report: clarity and comprehensibility - the report reflects the innovations in the court's working methods; analytical approach, which provides the basis for important but long-standing recommendations; results orientation. look beyond the merits of the report and evaluate the results, indicating the legality and effectiveness of spending union funds. the conclusions are: weaknesses in the control systems of the member states and partially effective supervision by the european commission; the dispersion of errors in the areas covered by the payments is quite high, as is their level. we have to account for a substantial level of error in a number of areas. reported progress is important, but still insufficient. the main outcome of the audit report is contained in the recommendations which should improve the management system for the expenditure of european funds. improve control systems at the different levels, first, second and third, and the interconnections between them, in which member states have a particular responsibility. simplification of procedures to make them easier to control, but also easier to implement and not to cause risks. and since it is very often the new member states that are involved, i think that better cooperation and assistance to the new countries is needed so that they can establish precise and clear national control mechanisms.
the annual report of the european court of auditors is a good opportunity to analyse what and how the budget of the european union is used. the european union's budget is designed above all to improve the lives of the nearly 500 million european citizens. it is used to finance projects that have a direct impact on the daily lives of our citizens, such as the construction of highways and roads. as you know, unfortunately we are currently witnessing a period in which so-called eurosceptics have been relatively successful in misleading some of our citizens with empty promises and false claims. blaming europe for everything that doesn't work well is one of the many methods they use. we, however, must do everything possible to ensure that the citizens of the european union can enjoy the benefits of membership. we need to send a strong message to them that as european legislators we want the european union to work more effectively and efficiently. it is the only way to prevent the eurosceptics from succeeding. in this connection, i would like to mention my homeland, bulgaria. for years, citizens have looked forward to the day when they can call themselves full members of the union and enjoy the benefits of membership. now, as european reports have noted on various occasions, despite our accession to the european union, my fellow citizens are deprived of the benefits of community solidarity, because of mismanagement and governmental weaknesses. this was also mentioned in the last report of the european commission of july 2008, which unfortunately led to a partial freezing of the euro funds for bulgaria. this situation deeply saddens me because i want nothing more than to see my fellow citizens live in a prosperous bulgaria, which takes its rightful place in a united europe, free of accusations of high-level corruption and organized crime. in conclusion, i call on all european and national institutions to continue their efforts to correct the shortcomings identified in the court's annual report and to strive for a continuous improvement in the quality of life of the citizens of the european union.
i join in congratulating you on your report. it is very important to me that it stresses the need to improve the monitoring and control systems for the management of european funds and recommends simplifying these procedures. i fully share the findings and recommendations made to the european commission, because they are extremely relevant. i take this opportunity, unfortunately, to cite the example of an ineffective control system, which also refers to bulgaria. the state continues to be criticised for irregularities in the management of pre-accession programme funds by some executive agencies. this is clear evidence that due to mismanagement by the bulgarian government, abuses have been committed and the results sought by the pre-accession mechanisms have not been achieved. but i think that if the commission had taken and adopted the necessary effective control mechanisms, this would not have happened. although this fact is acknowledged in the commission's reply given on page 51 of the report, it is not clear to me what specific measures should be taken.
i support the commission's position in principle. despite the much-discussed issue of roma community, we have not yet found the most reliable solutions that will lead to lasting integration into society. i think that applies to all member states. the ethnocentrism of the problem remains the main cause. it is as if we ethnized the social problems of the roma, treating them only as problems of a separate ethnic group. we need to change our approach. yes, the vast majority of roma are poor, lack housing and adequate education, but are they the only ones? the aggregation of these social problems in a single ethno-zone leads to blatant discrimination. that's why their integration becomes more complex, more difficult, the problem solving more difficult. that is why it is important to have a policy of protecting individual rights and to have one main instrument, subsidiarity. in bulgaria, there are many problems that we associate with roma and this has required us to take steps to draw up a framework programme to address the social conditions for their ethnic discrimination. we propose an exchange of views on the main points of the framework programme with other member states where this problem has significant dimensions.
i would like to draw attention to the penalty imposed on bulgaria by the directorate-general for enlargement by withdrawing the accreditation of two agencies which are entitled to receive funds from the union's pre-accession funds. the efforts made by the bulgarian government must be regarded as an unconditional acceptance of the community's requirements. the high level of legislative synchronisation, the changes to the public procurement act, the penal code, the new conflict of interest law, personnel changes, the commitment of all national resources to improve the management and control system of european funds, are a guarantee of the real commitments of the government. the withdrawal of accreditation is hardly the best measure that has been applied, although sounding like a warning to the next enlargement of the union. the obligation to fulfil the european union criteria must be balanced with equal treatment of all parties and cooperation to improve the problems. the bulgarian government is pursuing a firm policy to combat... (the president declared the sitting closed)
on november 27th, it was 89 years since the signing of the humiliating for bulgaria, the noizi dictatus, which tore away from our homeland territories that to this day are inhabited by people with bulgarian self-consciousness. these territories, located within the boundaries of the present-day states of serbia and macedonia, should be handed back to bulgaria, because these states cannot be considered successors of the serbo-croat-slovene state. serbia was not recognized as the legal successor of yugoslavia by the un and the international community, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia was not even recognized under its constitutional name. we, the patriots of ataka, insist that the issue of the return of the western peripheries be settled before the start of negotiations with serbia for eu membership, and the admission of macedonia to the union should take place after the settlement of the issue of the return of the strumica region within the bulgarian state.
in writing. last week we marked the international day for the elimination of violence against women. the european commission has stressed the need to tackle this vexing problem ruthlessly. the european parliament should also call on the candidate countries to take active measures to ensure the proper implementation and respect of the existing legislative framework. because the law cannot be just on paper, it must be applied in practice to improve the situation of these women who are subjected to harassment every day and who do not even realize that it is wrong. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that action must be taken to change the stereotypes of thinking in these countries. i would also like to draw your attention to another key point in the report. given the specificity of the region and in particular the military conflicts that europe has witnessed over the last decade, i would like to emphasise the fact that in conflict zones, men and women, girls and boys experience war differently. it is true that women and children are the most frequent victims of these conflicts, but women must be given equal opportunities and equal opportunity to be able to also fight, to participate actively in social and political life, to govern and to stabilize society.
i would like to point out that i and my colleagues believe that it is important to achieve a result in the climate and energy negotiations in order for europe to be a leader in the negotiations for an international agreement. at the same time, however, i would like to express my regret at the lack of progress on one of the very important issues for the countries of central and eastern europe, namely the fair recognition of their efforts in the period from the signing of the kyoto protocol to date to reduce emissions. i believe that a solution should be found which, within the compensation mechanism, takes account of the efforts of these countries as well, since, alongside the level of economic development, the question of restructuring the economy in these countries has been particularly relevant in recent years. i'm glad mr. borloo mentioned a meeting next week that might give us some headway on this matter. it is very important in terms of electricity trading that the process takes into account the integration of this sector in different countries. some have long-term agreements, so a gradual introduction of these allowances in countries where the market is not sufficiently integrated into the emissions trading system would be a good solution. i welcome the search for a solution to carbon leakage and believe that timely information from the commission on this issue will help to find solutions that protect the industry of countries that are in competition with neighbouring countries outside the european union.
the long-term sustainability of national and european policies for the use of energy from renewable sources and the long-term sustainability of investments are key factors for the sustainable development of the green energy market and the achievement of the 2020 targets in a cost-effective manner. to use the diverse portfolio of green technologies, a diverse toolbox is required. whether this will be tariff schemes, investment grants and others depends on the extent to which alternative sources are developed and used and it should be applied without distorting competition between the different market players in the energy sector. such a comprehensive strategy has the potential to reduce emissions and increase energy security, which is a key prerequisite for an efficient economy and for citizens' comfort.
climate change is happening at a faster rate than predicted. if the european union is to lead the un meeting in copenhagen in 2009 to reach a global agreement on a real fight against climate change after 2012, it must actually reduce greenhouse gas emissions within the european union. in order to enable the new member states to achieve effective emission reductions, it is appropriate to consider the gradual introduction of a 100% auction for the electricity generation sector, as well as the extension of the transition periods. the new member states still rely heavily on coal as a primary energy source. the transition to alternative energy sources is slower in these countries and therefore stringent emission reduction measures could have undesirable social effects. i call on the commission and the council to take account of the progress made so far in implementing the obligations of the kyoto protocol and the actual readiness of each member state to take action in order to make the measures prepared effective.
in writing. we've been talking too long about a problem that we have less and less time to solve. global processes related to climate change need to be addressed in the long term, but with concrete action by all players in the global economy. there are several key actions around which the negotiations should be organised: • investments in new technologies - industry creates problems, but new technologies can solve them. it is therefore necessary to give the industry a chance to develop intelligently in line with our objectives; • the mandatory introduction of alternatives, but without negative effects on the environment; ensuring the security of the use of nuclear energy, which must also be given a chance; i say this also as the representative of bulgaria, which has its contribution to this process; • investing in education and science for sustainable development - without which there can be no effective fight against climate change, as they provide adequate individual and organisational preparation;
i would like to express my reasons for supporting the report on 'women in the balkans' prepared by my colleague mrs gurmai and congratulate her on it. this report reflects the real situation of women in the balkan region without differentiating between countries according to their different status. here, gender policies are being imposed consistently and stereotypes are being gradually overcome. the report shows the change in the situation through changes in legislation, giving more rights to women, increasing representation, participation in politics and governance. a very important focus of the report is the assessment of the role of women in the balkans in the development of democratic processes, in preserving the stability of the region, in overcoming all military conflicts.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, as you know from the debate over the last few weeks, a key point in the directive under discussion is the consideration of the idle period of the total available time as working time. the amendment will enable many workers to be compensated for time that they have not had the opportunity to use freely and in full accordance with their needs. the proposal has many supporters and opponents, but both sides are too one-sided in their views and fail to see the intersection of their interests. so i want to draw your attention to the positive effect this amendment will have on european society. in recent decades, the population of the european union has been increasingly ageing. the population growth rate in 2007 reached a paltry 0,12%. if we do not want to rely on immigration alone, we must encourage an increase in birth rates. the inclusion of the idle part of the time available in the calculation of the total working time is one of these incentives. the change will make it easier for many women to combine their desire for professional fulfilment with their desire to raise more children. in this way, we will take another important step in our efforts to reverse the negative trends in the development of our society.
in writing. – it is a known fact that the economy in many coastal regions of the eu is highly dependent on tourism. in order to ensure that future generations can also benefit from our beautiful beaches and coastal countryside, we must however become active. the sustainability and future of our coastal areas is not self-evident, environmental degradation and wrong planning cause severe harm to coastal regions. we must avoid the excessive construction of housing and hotels and must ensure that any such construction goes hand in hand with an improvement to the infrastructure, in particular the sewage and waste management systems. simply put, we must do our utmost to preserve and protect coastal regions. one option is to foster programmes focused on eco-tourism and to launch a better system of best practices among coastal regions. one thing that becomes obvious is that we must prevent any environmental pollution. in particular, i am very much concerned about oil plants and similar facilities which cause a severe risk to our coastal regions. i thus call upon all member states to ensure that such facilities match the latest available technologies and do not cause any environmental danger to the fragile ecosystems of our coastal regions.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to join the rapporteur in his comments on the various thanks, which are really more than just polite, and to say that the work has been, frankly, exceptional. of course, there were some initial points of dissatisfaction. they have been partly corrected, about the incorporation of fuels, to put things simply, a little modified on the land allocation. the difference in the efforts required of the countries, which has not been the subject of any real discussion - i was going to say any real objections - is a good example of european solidarity. in the field of nra, some people have to do much more, because they have the capacity to do so. others are making further efforts in other areas of the transition. i think that is a very exceptional directive.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, mr turmes, the shadow rapporteurs, and all those people who have been fighting for renewable energy. i still remember the debate on renewable energy, heating and cooling and all the issues we discussed. i think we have mastered the directive in front of us. the binding nature of the target will mean measures and support schemes for member states using renewable energy will be predictable and long term. that will allow new technologies to penetrate the market and not be marginal. we are proposing a profound change. it is true that different countries have different targets, but i would also mention one particular aspect that came up in the council. with the exception of only one country, all countries understood that they could achieve this target, and for this they have two additional instruments. firstly we should invest strongly in energy efficiency because it also helps achieve renewable targets. secondly we should not forget any of the sectors, because we would like to address all sectors, not just electricity, but also heating and cooling and transport. for this reason i believe that, with the very good spirit coming from the member states, we could look optimistically towards this target. i believe that the flexibility mechanisms proposed are perhaps not the most ideal. but i agree with parliament and the council that we need to invest in a number of technologies at this stage. the worst thing that could happen is that we hamper development of some particular technology, for example, solar energy, that today is more costly compared with wind technology. i believe it is the right approach to guarantee support schemes but at the same time allow member states to cooperate. i should mention one investment by a czech company in wind energy in romania. this is what we are looking for. we are looking for massive investments where it is cheaper, but it does not necessarily mean that any technology should be excluded. i believe it is important that flanking measures are in place and there is access to dealing with the agreed administrative barriers, as well as some other measures absolutely needed to be successful in this area. on transport i am more positive than the rapporteur because i believe it is very important that we address the sustainability criteria. we have sustainability criteria concerning greenhouse gases. some would say they should be higher; i believe they are high and there is a strong motivation. second, we have defined no-go areas; i think this is also a revolutionary change. lastly, we also address issues involving direct and indirect land-use changes. we know that scientific evidence is not yet sufficient to take a very clear decision on it, but clearly it sets out a path towards achieving binding arrangements in these areas also. i believe even this part of the directive is a huge success because it is the first time ever that sustainability criteria are defined and in a form that will be implemented. i believe that the transport sector needs renewable energy sources, not only heating and cooling and electricity. i am very proud of the work that our rapporteurs have done together with the council and with the french presidency. i am convinced that we will have not only 20% of renewable energy in consumption in 2020, but much much more. so today we can be sure, and we will be quite happy in 2020.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. - i congratulate the rapporteur on the optimal results. in order to achieve the objectives of the renewable energy directive, it is necessary to establish a legislative framework to ensure long-term investment solutions. the forecasted demand for energy from renewable sources and biofuels opens up opportunities, including, for example, providing risk capital to smes to bring new technologies to the market. financial institutions have a key role to play even in the current period of difficulty in structuring and trading instruments for financing renewable energy, energy efficiency and other projects. this can be achieved by influencing policies to promote renewable energy applications through a regulatory framework with a long-term vision at community and national level and with a focus on the role of local and regional authorities.
mr. chairman, gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, this report is an undeniable achievement for the european parliament. the fact is that we have to find two balances: between the production of energy from all possible sources, including renewable and alternative sources, between the production and consumption of energy and the protection of the environment. the directive is an important tool for this. it is important to put in place cost-effective policies and measures to minimise the burden on energy consumers and society. however, support for the directive is also support for the traditionally used energy production technologies when they are safe, sustainable and secure, which is important, for example, for nuclear energy sources. that means flexibility. so i want to draw attention again to the problem of the closed nuclear reactors of the bulgarian power plant, which must receive sufficient equivalent compensation so that the country can continue to participate effectively... (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the european commission and the presidency, let me begin by expressing my support for the agreement reached in the european council and the trilogue on the 'energy and climate change' package. it reaffirms the european union's role as a leading force in the fight against climate change. at the same time, it recognises the need for europe to remain competitive and to preserve jobs in a period of deep global economic crisis. in the field of emissions trading, the agreement reached on solidarity with the new member states of central and eastern europe and on taking account of their efforts in the post-1990 period is a testament to the viability of the european values that have made europe an attractive force for many peoples. on the subject of carbon capture and storage, i would ask the european commission to supplement the agreement reached on the use of 300 million tonnes of carbon allowances with proposals for co-financing from the budgetary balance for 2008 and for favourable loans from the european investment bank. i hope, madam president, that the climate package will become the basis for future positive changes both in terms of climate and in terms of economic development in countries like my own bulgaria and other countries in central and eastern europe.
i join in the congratulations on the well-done job from the rapporteurs, the negotiators and the many people who were in the shadows and who helped us to have the final discussion of the 'energy and climate' package today. there is no doubt that this package affects not only the energy sector of the european union, but also the whole of industry and transport, which must become increasingly low-carbon, and the time for this is shrinking. thanks to the french presidency, we have reached the necessary compromises. i cannot help but note the fair way in which the interests of the countries of eastern and central europe have been taken into account. i am addressing the commission by proposing that one of the 12 projects be in bulgaria.
author. − mr president, on 18 june and 9 july 2008, the european parliament adopted at first reading the legislative resolutions on the directives and regulations of the third energy package. the package is of major importance for the creation of a european internal market in electricity and gas and for ensuring a transparent and clear regulatory framework for investments in transmission networks and enhancing regional and pan-european cooperation. on that basis, the energy package contributes greatly to the eu member states’ security of energy supply. its adoption will also be a major contribution to the efforts to implement the ambitious legislative package on energy and climate change, which i am confident parliament will adopt tomorrow. in this respect, we would like to request that the french presidency inform us of its intention to present to the european parliament the common position of the council on the five legislative proposals. we would also appreciate detailed information on what steps the council, and in particular the czech presidency, envisages for the continuation and timely conclusion of the legislative process on the third energy package. the european parliament has repeatedly demonstrated its willingness to engage in a constructive dialogue with the council. as a token of this readiness, the european parliament rapporteurs initiated a letter addressed to minister borloo on 17 july, where we call upon the presidency-in-office to establish informal talks between the council and parliament in the period between the general political agreement and the formal notification of the common position of the council. furthermore, we encouraged the council to prioritise this legislative package, with informal talks starting as early as september 2008, as we were convinced this would serve the interests of the three institutions, the french presidency and eu citizens at large. later on, we drew attention to the necessity of starting these timely negotiations on a number of occasions. i would like to highlight the european parliament resolution on the outcome of the european council meeting in brussels on 15 and 16 october 2008, where we call on the council to start the negotiations. after the political agreement of 10 october, the chair of the committee on industry, research and energy proposed in a letter of 7 november to hold the first meeting in the form of an informal trialogue before the end of this year. we regret that such a meeting has not yet taken place. for our part, once we receive the common position of the council, we are ready to start a trialogue in order to reach an interinstitutional agreement. today, at a meeting of the rapporteurs and representatives of all political groups, organised by the chair of the committee on industry, ms niebler, we unanimously agreed to propose to begin the trialogue as early as possible, preferably in strasbourg in the week starting 12 january 2009, considering the time constraints. we hope that the czech presidency will be able to accept this proposal. we are aware at this stage that the council has covered in its common position the areas of substantial political importance, such as unbundling, the third-country clause and a level playing field. it has not, however, addressed the issues raised by the european parliament at first reading, such as the greater role of the regulatory agency, protection of consumers, energy poverty etc. we hope to discuss these important issues in an intensive dialogue in january and february. allow me to express my belief that the council will respond in an expeditious and constructive manner to the issues raised by the european parliament, which guarantee the implementation of the package and defend the interests of millions of european consumers.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i should first like to thank minister borloo for his constructive attitude and for expressing the council's willingness to conclude the discussion on this package by the end of this parliamentary term. i am also very grateful on behalf of my group for the statement made by commissioner piebalgs that he would support the finding of a compromise, although we have very many issues on which the council has not touched and for which the commission has reserved its position. the european parliament, and we in the pse group in particular, insist on issues such as consumer rights and energy poverty which we would like to see reflected in the final document. i would like to assure you that we are ready to participate in this trialogue from the very beginning of january and, as mrs niebler has just mentioned, this is the intention of all the rapporteurs and all the political groups. we would be very happy if the czech presidency were ready to join us at the beginning of january so that we can complete our work in substance by the end of march and be able to finalise the package during the month of april, probably at the second part-session in april. that would be the ideal solution. i would like to assure you that we will also be ready to find a compromise and try to find a solution for both packages, but this should of course be a process that will lead to a more competitive market, to more transparency, to viability of all the stakeholders, allowing them to have their say in a future energy market. we are sure that the role of the agency could be improved within the limits of the meroni case and we have found good proposals for that in parliament. we hope that the commission will support us and that we can create a package with actors and codes that are implemented, and that they are backed by mandatory decisions, not implemented on a voluntary basis. i think this would be a good solution for a real third energy package that will go beyond the second one and that will create the basis for a truly functioning competitive market.
on behalf of the alde group. madam rapporteur, i would like to start by congratulating you on making one of society's most tragic problems our common political priority. today, as you said, commissioner, the loss of life is far above the values we would like to see as a common european level. we have almost 70 standards for different car parts, but we don't have a directive to limit human casualties on the roads of the european union. this is paradoxical. human life on the roads is no less important than the environmental standards we impose on member states. in this context, it is necessary to support in the morning vote the report by mrs ayala sender, proposing mandatory cross-border sanctions for the four main infringements which account for over 75% of road deaths. the introduction of crossborder measures against them will also significantly reduce fatal accidents and bring us closer to the target of reducing them by 50% by 2010. the common road policy is based on common road legislation for the european union and common standards, but not necessarily identical indicators. we talk about red lights, we talk about speed, but we don't talk about using traffic lights, about roundabouts, about not using cell phones and cigarettes, about driving courses in the european union, and about general fines that would scare even the most vicious bullies. if a hungarian driver now breaks the german traffic law and is not punished in any way, then with the entry into force of this directive and your proposals he will be punished in his own country. the european union needs a common european road safety policy that does not allow member states to deviate from an average level of protection of human life on the roads. we think it is natural for the commission to sanction governments that have not dealt with waste, working time or the environment. and do we not need mechanisms to ensure that national road fatalities do not exceed european average values? in this context, i would like to stress once again the importance of relying on commonly accepted european accident indicators. i believe that your report, mrs ayala sender, is a step forward towards the creation of an integrated pan-european road safety, and that this directive lays the foundations for a europe without road traffic offences, without borders and without the possibility of non-compliance.
the main message of the key amendments to the deposit guarantee schemes directive, such as a guaranteed amount and maturity, aims at higher levels of guarantee to protect retail depositors' savings and to preserve confidence in the financial system. at present, it is difficult to assess the fiscal costs associated with the current financial turmoil and its adjustments. potentially low real gdp growth for several years in a future period would prove to be an additional destabilising factor for fiscal sustainability. in this context, a timely analysis of the financial mechanisms of the member states is recommended in order to assess the effect of the intervention carried out. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not limited to the minimum necessary to cover the capital needs of the bank. to overcome such weaknesses in the choice of depositors between the different levels of protection, coordination at community level is necessary.
mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and coordinators and to highlight their exceptional efforts to conduct the budgetary procedure at a very high level. this was a very serious attempt to maximise commitments and payments while approaching the ceilings allowed by the multiannual financial framework. of course, there are challenges. it can be said that this budget is a prelude to the european union's response to the international financial and economic crisis. that's why it's so hard. it is natural to look at the budget through the important priorities for implementing european union policy. unfortunately, under priority 1b, which concerns sustainable development, cohesion for growth and employment, there will not be enough funds to tackle large and priority projects of the member states. it is the cohesion fund that allows economically less developed member states to receive support to help them solve their infrastructure problems, increase their competitiveness and achieve better regional development. this is the fund that allows the standard to be raised, especially in the new member states. without resources, these countries will move much more slowly, especially in times of crisis. i therefore take a serious view of this budgetary impossibility. the way the budget is implemented is also important. the debate on simplifying procedures to improve applicability and reduce the risks of irregularities and abuses should be accelerated and make it possible to overcome the backlog and increase the level of payments. there is something good about the proposal to revise the multiannual financial framework, which offers an additional growth resource allocated in 2009-10. the purpose of achieving the low-carbon energy targets is good, but it is hardly decisive. we need a much higher degree of flexibility. in conclusion, we adopt the budget, but with preventive measures in view of the financial and economic crisis. although difficult to achieve, consensus is important and necessary and should be supported.
i am pleased that the european parliament voted to drop the 'opt-out' clause allowing member states to make an exception to the 48-hour working week rule at their discretion. the 'opt-out' clause is detrimental to workers and employees and opens the door to unfair treatment, exploitation and abuse of people's health. we are part of a union and the rules should apply equally to all. competitiveness cannot be built at the expense of workers' health and lives. our parliament has given a very clear signal to the council of ministers about what the european citizens want. at the same time, however, i supported the council's proposals on active and passive watch. there are specificities in the situation in the various countries and the implementation of the provisions adopted today by the european parliament would create considerable difficulties in my country, including with regard to health workers, and from there it could lead to problems in whole sectors. that's why i hope the conciliation committee can come to some reasonable compromises. in conclusion, i would like to call on european governments, especially those in central and eastern europe, to tighten their controls on compliance with labour laws, because it is no secret that hundreds of thousands of europeans are still working in humiliating conditions and far beyond the legal working hours.
mr president, commissioner, the drawing up of the recommendations on improving the quality of vocational education and training is an undeniable success. as a national responsibility and policy, the quality of vocational education and training in the member states is too different and does not adequately respond to labour market mobility or the dynamics of economic and technological development. this makes it difficult to achieve the lisbon objectives. even less does it provide equal opportunities for the realisation of a knowledge-based economy. the new approach of the reference framework can help the parties to achieve common criteria, comparability and compatibility of the educational product. the levels of coordination provided for in the recommendations, including with partner and trade union organisations, broaden the scope and will certainly lead to an improvement in the education market, which should follow the labour market. this will certainly support in particular those countries where this process is difficult due to the transformation of their economies. uniformity of starting points can ensure transparency, consistency and transferability between the many areas of development within the union. this should be done without prejudice to the autonomy of the member states in the management of vocational education and training systems. but at the same time it will create a common environment and a prerequisite for a common quality base and efficiency in the training of specialists. the need to synchronise business, economic and technological development needs should be taken seriously in order to make training systems even more effective, which can and will address a number of issues that are driving migration flows of varying strengths. in addition, the problems of different occupational areas can be addressed in a targeted manner. transparency, cooperation and high culture in organising the process of improving the quality of vocational education and training through participation in the european quality network should be the main national guidelines in this process.
ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, for two years now, 670 km of the black sea coast has been part of the eastern external border of the european union. the participation of the border services of bulgaria and romania in joint projects and actions organised by frontex is yielding good results, but military action between russia and georgia earlier this year and the ongoing tension in relations between the two countries, as well as the overall instability in the caucasus region, show that the challenges for our common black sea border are still great. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the development of a number of international security instruments, including the un security council resolution on the situation in the black sea. the strategy should aim at involving key countries in the region in projects and actions carried out by the member states of the european union. only in this way will we be able to ensure good security at the black sea border and guarantee the peace of our citizens. another important initiative that needs to receive more resources and funding not only from the european institutions but also from the member states is to strengthen the training of staff involved in the logistics and operations of frontex. in the modern world, border protection is not just a security function but a complex activity requiring additional knowledge and skills in different areas. to be able to cope successfully with the tasks assigned to them, the border authorities of the member states must have a good knowledge of international and maritime law, the right of asylum and fundamental human rights. i would like to agree with the rapporteur, mr sánchez, that we need to develop a comprehensive master plan to define the overall architecture of the european union's border strategy.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs van den burg, the european parliament is today voting on a proposal for simplification. this proposal is the first of three legislative proposals in the field of accounting. it aims to simplify the economic environment at community level, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. that first proposal is a good place to start. it is a good opportunity for legislators, stakeholders and the commission to exchange views and debate the elements to be included in the other two forthcoming proposals. as announced in the european economic recovery plan a few weeks ago, the next project will aim to reduce the administrative burden on the smallest businesses, which are also the largest businesses in europe. in the first quarter of 2009, the commission will present a proposal which will allow member states to exempt these micro-enterprises from the obligation to draw up annual accounts. i would stress that the commission's proposal will only succeed in reducing the administrative burden if the member states are prepared to make use of this new option, since it is an option. external consultants estimated that this measure could generate savings of up to eur 5.8 billion per year. but these savings will only be achieved if all member states implement this possibility of derogation and do not introduce unnecessarily burdensome new rules. the second initiative i announced at the end of september is the review and updating of the fourth and seventh accounting directives. the first technical preparations for this review have already begun. a public consultation on the direction to be given to the commission will be published in the first quarter of 2009. many of you will be pleased to know that the recommendations made by the high-level group chaired by mr stoiber will be taken into account as far as possible. as regards the present proposal, which has just been the subject of an accelerated procedure, we are very pleased to learn that cooperation between the institutions has enabled this initiative to be dealt with in such a short time. i would ask you to vote today in favour of the conclusion of this procedure and i thank you for your attention.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. - mr commissioner, our assessment was that the proposals relating to this legislative initiative were not ambitious enough and the economic committee called for a more active policy on the part of the commission and of you personally on this issue. but i see that what you have shared with us is a really important step and we really expect more active measures from the commission, of course with the full support of the european parliament, because the issue of smes, especially in the context of the current financial crisis, is extremely serious. as rapporteur for the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i would like to say that we fully support the commission's initiative to reduce the administrative burden on mediumsized enterprises. we share the desire and we supported the accelerated procedure. today, that motion will be upheld. and we believe that any steps you are prepared to take from here on out will also receive our full support.
my dear mrs. minister, commissioner, colleagues, i want to assure you that today's debate on the three reports is of great interest to the citizens of the european union and to my fellow lawyers. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteurs on all three reports. my career thus far has been entirely in the judicial system: both as president of one of the largest courts in bulgaria, which first introduced the electronic movement of cases, and as president of the commission on information technology and law of the council of europe until 2000. so i am well aware of the problems of e-justice, and when we introduced information technology in 1995, i could not have imagined that this topic would be of interest to the european parliament. so i'm very happy that i can now speak it. i would like to congratulate mrs wallis in particular on the report on e-justice, because i believe that information technology, the new communication technologies in the field of justice, will lead to a better development of crossborder judicial cooperation and at the same time facilitate access to justice for citizens of the european union. however, i would like to emphasise that for a well-functioning european system in this area it is of the utmost importance to establish a common strategy at institutional level, to develop common standards for more effective communication between national systems, while also taking into account the need for very well-trained specialists. only if these conditions are met will the use of the potential of new technologies lead to both a more effective fight against cross-border crime and to an improvement in citizens' access to justice in civil and commercial matters. in this regard, i would like to encourage all projects to be promoted, both the electronic network of criminal records and the insolvency registers and the european judicial network in civil and commercial matters. only in this way will one of the main objectives of the european union - better interaction with citizens - be achieved.
