mr president, this report seems to be fully endorsed by the council, but there is a procedural issue because coreper has not yet met - it will meet tomorrow or the day after tomorrow - and the slovenian presidency has asked, for procedural and formal reasons, to postpone it for the forthcoming plenary session in belgium. there is no objection to this postponement.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i also wish to congratulate mr blokland for an excellent report and for the admirably skilful way with which he has handled all the procedural issues concerned with this important report. additionally, i wish to thank him for the respect and attention he has shown to all shadow rapporteurs. the commission proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the export and import of dangerous chemicals, enriched with the compromise joint amendments by almost all the parliamentary groups, will present a set of adequate and much-needed rules which will most likely provide protection of public health and of the environment at a high level. the serious problems caused by unscrupulous international merchants of toxic substances are well known and feared, and it is very much hoped that the implementation of the commission’s proposal will assist in helping developing nations to counter the serious hazards to the well-being of their citizens and to our environment. apart from the substance of this piece of legislation, it is also noteworthy that it demonstrates to some extent the usefulness of the court of justice decision concerning action of the commission against the council and the european parliament. at the same time, it raises questions as to why such actions had to be taken in the first place, and why the three core institutions of the eu could not find ways of agreeing amicably and without the need to resort to court deliberations. such action inevitably brought about delay, was expensive and may have caused a certain amount of avoidable interinstitutional animosity. nonetheless, it has happened, and it must now be put behind us – although it must perhaps guide all of us to perhaps take wiser decisions in the future and avoid court actions as much as possible.
madam president, the measures proposed by the european commission for the strategy up to 2012 are mostly superficial and focus on not affecting competitiveness. the target of a 25% reduction in accidents by the end of the strategy may seem impressive, but in reality it is completely inadequate. the aim should be to lay the foundations and strengthen the institutional interventions of the state so that the tragic toll of thousands of deaths per year and many more with serious health problems due to the quality of work can be brought closer to elimination. the rapporteur focuses instead on the exploitation of workers such as those in precarious jobs, women, temporary workers, migrants and the elderly and proposes tougher measures against employers and guaranteed supervision. perhaps the most important contribution of the report is the finding that permanent work is a prerequisite for combating accidents and occupational diseases. in addition to accidents, more attention should be paid to the underlying causes of mental illness, addiction and psychological hazards in the workplace. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is based on the principle of the protection of workers from risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
mr president, our greatest concern about the models for resolving the situation in kosovo is the attempt to legitimize a unilateral declaration of independence which will have serious consequences for international legitimacy. the recognition of kosovo's independence outside the united nations, through a unilateral declaration, would be a dangerous development that could lead to further bloodshed and redrawing of borders. it is a clear violation of international law that we believe will be used in other situations where there are conflicts as a way of resolving disputes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the situation in kosovo is a continuation and consequence of interventionist policies and is a problem which can only be solved within the framework of the un, of existing international law, without external interventions and violations of the principles of the charter itself. the consequences of unilateral measures are what we are experiencing in iraq. only legal, agreed political solutions can ensure peace.
madam president, yesterday the ind/dem group asked for all the votes to be roll-call votes. i note in today’s votes that, again, all the votes are roll-call votes. yesterday the president said that he was going to examine whether it was in fact possible for the ind/dem group to ask for roll-call votes. am i to understand that it is possible, and that from now on all our votes will be roll-call votes?
mr. president, the situation in gaza requires an immediate lifting of the blockade of the area by the israelis, now. providing assistance to the population of gaza to meet immediate needs. the facilitation by the arab league, the european union and even israel of contacts between the two factions of fatah and hamas in order to achieve the unity of the palestinian people, as when the government of national unity was in power. this also implies the release from israeli prisons of all elected representatives of palestinians from hamas. the aim must be to create the right conditions for the holding of general elections with a clear commitment by both the european union and the united states to fully respect whatever the outcome of the elections.
madam president, both the european commission and the council and our rapporteur are dissatisfied because they make no mention of the reductions in the number of workers in the sector, working conditions, hours and wages. the commission has also not provided for any effective controls on the pricing policy of undertakings or on private monopolies in the transport of parcels and express mail. the report also stresses that, despite the differences in the member states, employment is stable, but that this is not supported by data. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, it should be noted that the council has in a way endorsed parliament's amendments, but it leaves a large window open with social implications for both service employees and consumers.
mr. president, the question is simple: how much importance does the commission's report on the new cycle of the strategy attach to the demands of the working class, small and mediumsized enterprises, young people and women? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work organization. is extending working time and raising the unemployment rate the right answer to increasing competitiveness, or, as we believe, would the right answer be better pay in safe working conditions which would help productivity but, above all, improve living standards? what do young men and women want? are they constantly in a transition phase between training and employability or are they being used according to their qualifications? we believe the latter. on the environment and climate change front, there are positive elements in the greenhouse gas reduction target, more positive than in the us and other countries, but if development in each country is not fully linked to environmental protection then the results will be sporadic. it is also possible to promote the fragmentation of public energy, electricity and gas supplies on the one hand and to say that the public interest and the objective of energy efficiency are served, and at low prices, on the other hand, when in practice the opposite is true. finally, i would add that research and innovation cannot be merely a commodity but a public good and that it should be judged first and foremost on the basis of its contribution to the progress of society. so what is needed is a real increase in public investment in research, not a divestment of the capacity to do research for its own benefit.
madam president, we have just heard the debate on palestine. the humanitarian situation in gaza is the worst since 1967. 80% of the population, or about 1.1 million people, are now dependent on food, compared with 63% in 2006. and unemployment has reached 40%, according to a report by amnesty international. we have seen the events in the region this past weekend, with killings on both sides, hostilities, and in the middle the palestinian people waiting for a better tomorrow that is long overdue. it is therefore time for the european union to assume its responsibilities and pursue a policy which is not based on the dictates of the american big brother, but on an objective policy.
madam president, a few days ago presidential elections were held in the republic of cyprus. the voters demonstrated their wish for a speedy solution to the cyprus problem by electing a moderate politician, mr christofias, and by ousting mr papadopoulos who was considered by many to be a hardliner and nationalist. this important change is further proof that the greek cypriots genuinely want a resolution of the long-lasting conflict with the turkish cypriots and with turkey, which is occupying 40% of the island. the greek cypriots have made a very brave move by showing moderation and compromise but in order for things to move forward turkey must now reciprocate with an appropriate goodwill move such as the return of the ghost city of famagusta to its lawful inhabitants or the withdrawal of a significant number of turkish troops of occupation from the island.
mr president, i would like to make one point very briefly on the solidarity fund, apart from thanking the rapporteur for the very good work he has done. mr president, every year we have bad weather in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is therefore good that the european union provides financial cover in the event of such disasters, as it is doing now in the case of great britain and as it has done in the past for cyprus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, many congratulations to the rapporteur, mr staes, on an excellent report and for the great efforts he made to achieve compromise and consensus amongst the different political groups. an eu-wide harmonisation of national statistics on the sale and use of plant protection products and the proper use of such statistics would undoubtedly greatly enhance the preparation of accurate impact assessments on the use of such products in the environment and on human health, and thus enable the taking of corrective measures. in order for this harmonisation to be effective, and thus as beneficial as possible, the rapporteur has rightly made a number of amendments, which entail a compromise agreement of most groups, which cover four main areas. firstly, the generation of statistical data that is comparable and compatible in the member states. secondly, the avoidance of duplication of data collection in order to reduce costs and the burden on professional users. thirdly, the necessity to include non-agricultural uses in the scope of the regulation, and fourthly the need to make the fullest possible use of the data collected. we find the great majority of these amendments, as approved almost unanimously by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, useful and necessary and we will support it. we will vote negatively on only three amendments, namely amendments 24, 27 and 29. furthermore, we will fully support the five additional amendments submitted by the greens and others. in conclusion, i wish once again to make the general point that success in achieving the aims of this piece of legislation will depend very much on its proper implementation and to this end the constructive involvement and full commitment of member states authorities is of paramount importance. let us hope that this will be the case in all 27 member states.
madam president, i just wanted to stress the importance of one point that applies to this report as well as to the previous report. this is the fact that statistical data is not important in itself. it is the interpretation of the statistical data, of course, and the drawing of the right conclusions and the implementation of measures guided by the statistical data which is important. in this respect, the rapporteur has made a very important proposition relating to expert groups to evaluate the data collected. i would like to ask the commissioner, in this respect, what his thoughts are about such expert groups to evaluate the data.
mr. president, the state is giving up the last core of regulation under its control. the welfare state is being dismantled, the private sector is operating without hindrance, social benefits are being reduced, the institutional framework allows employers to hire and fire whenever they wish, and working conditions are being tightened on the basis of flexible working hours, with the result that the worker is being sacrificed on the altar of competitiveness, that is, the increase in capital's surplus. another european council summit will deal with the lisbon strategy, a strategy which is considered to have failed and needs to be revised. convergence was never achieved. not for the employees, anyway. lisbon and its satellites insist on supporting the union's business-centric philosophy, while continuing to put social policies on the back burner. the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity, and it is not a political entity. that's what we need!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i will speak on this matter in a personal capacity. ms panayotopoulos-cassiotou, with her usual wisdom and hard work, has done a very good job and produced a report which deals with the problems of women prisoners in a most efficient way. most of what ms panayotopoulos-cassiotou states in her report is, of course, correct. but does it perhaps not relate, i wonder, to a world that is ideal rather than realistic, a world in which prisons should indeed function not just for punishing sentenced individuals but mainly for rehabilitating them? the hard reality of the matter is that most prisons in europe and the world in general function inadequately both for women and for men. that does not mean, of course, that we must not always press for changes to occur. nor does it mean that the special needs of women prisoners should not concern us. on the contrary, it is our duty always to push for improvements, but we must never forget the following simple facts. firstly, changes are needed in our penal system in general. secondly, there should be no untoward discrimination between men and women, apart from what is necessitated by virtue of strictly biological differences, including maternity or special aspects of motherhood. thirdly, prisons are not hotels. neither are they maternity wards or nursery schools. fourthly, most prisoners – men and women – are convicted criminals, and many have committed atrocious acts against other human beings. fifthly, hard as it may sound, many convicted women are unfit to be mothers and alternative choices have to be found to deal with the upbringing of their children. sixthly, as to whether female prisoners should be allowed to have a pregnancy initiated in prison, this is by no means a non-controversial issue. having said all that, i nevertheless conclude by declaring my support for this report.
author. − mr president, armenia is essentially a relatively recently re-born country, struggling to strengthen its democratic institutions and safeguard the well-being of its citizens whilst squashed between two not-so-democratic but rather hostile neighbours, namely russia and turkey, and whilst being disturbingly and unfairly involved in a territorial conflict with the totalitarian regime of azerbaijan. in this setting, the recently-held presidential elections were not perfect, but in the words of the international observation mission, were ‘administered mostly in line with osce and council of europe [...] standards’. sadly, in post-election protests it would appear that the police used more than necessary force, which resulted in the death of eight people, including one policeman. a thorough and fair investigation is called for into the events that led to these deaths. an investigation is also warranted into allegations that external forces are instigating violence in armenia in order to destabilise the country. i call for full support for this resolution.
author. − mr president, i am talking in a personal capacity on this matter. in recent years significant changes have been occurring in russia, from stalinist communism to the beginnings of liberal capitalism; from the nuclear threat of the cold war to the initiation of friendly disarmament and military cooperation talks with the west. at the same time, more democratic reforms in the country have been instituted and the standard of living of the russian people has been increasing steadily. we welcome these changes and must support them. we do not always have to be critical of the bad things; we sometimes have to condone and support the good things. in this way, we will not only be objective but we will encourage changes for the better to a faster and greater extent. with these thoughts in mind, and looking at the recent presidential elections in russia, we have to say that these were held in a more democratic fashion than previously, although there was still the problem of unequal access of candidates to the media. but, let us be honest, is this a problem we do not have ourselves in the eu member states? unfortunately, we do. following the elections, there were protests in the streets. it was reported that some of these protests were met with disproportionate force by the russian police. can we honestly say that our own police forces in eu member states or candidate member states are angels and do not sometimes – more often than we would like – use disproportionate force? yes, we condemn the unfair treatment of candidates by the russian state-run media; yes, we condemn the undue use of force by the russian police against protesters, but we do so in exactly the same way and with the same spirit as we would when dealing with similar happenings in any other country or union of countries, including our own.
author. − mr president, some believe that afghanistan is a country which in recent years has been in a state of continuous turmoil and chaotic tension. poverty, illiteracy, tribal violent rivalry, drug barons, warlords, russian occupation, taliban terrorism, followed by formidable us-uk military intervention, and on top of all this, strict islamic sharia law. if ever there was to be hell on earth, afghanistan would be a very strong candidate indeed. yet, in the face of this extreme adversity, there are weak acts of defiance, and hope for freedom of speech and democracy. such is the case concerning a young journalist, perwez kambakhsh, who dared to circulate an article about women’s rights in islam, which he had downloaded from the internet. this brave act was considered blasphemy in accordance with palaeolithic-era sharia law and he was sentenced to death by hemi-encephalic fanatically blinded so-called judges in a so-called regional court in northern afghanistan. as we all know, women in fanatic islam terms are regarded as little more than pieces of furniture and any attempt to dispute this is met with extreme action, such as the one under consideration in this resolution. but things have to change for the better and we in the west have a duty to see that such a change happens sooner rather than later. since the west, including the eu, has a formidable military presence in afghanistan and since the west, including the eu, pours billions of euros in financial aid into that country, i think we are perfectly correct in demanding that not only the young man in question be immediately and unconditionally released, but that similar occurrences in relation to backward islamic sharia law do not occur again – ever! otherwise we should seriously consider pulling both our troops and our money out of afghanistan and letting that country follow the hellish course that it will be sentenced to by its fanatic religious destiny.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this is just a simple amendment that has been agreed with the main political groups. it is to replace in the ppe-de group amendment the word ‘by’ turkey to the word ‘with’ turkey. i understand that this is acceptable to all the main groups. since i have the floor, there is a second amendment concerning recital h, which a colleague mentioned earlier on, which is to replace the word ‘territory’ with the word ‘status’. i understand that this is also acceptable to the main groups. i am very grateful to the secretariat because this was a very late oral amendment.
madam president, greece, a long-standing member of the eu, and its 11 million citizens, do consider that they have a serious and legitimate problem with the name of their neighbour, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, and we have to respect that concern. it is very disappointing that, despite the fact that greece is holding negotiations at this very moment with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia about this issue, some fellow meps and some governments of the eu have already taken sides and are also trying to push the european parliament into taking sides: the side, of course, of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. this is not very wise, it is not fair and it is not helping either the cohesion policy of the eu or the situation, because it will not only make the government of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia more intransigent in its claims about the name in the negotiations and it will also mean that there will not be a proper solution for a long time to come.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the european finance ministers have decided not to agree to a europe-wide wage increase to counter the rising cost of living. we all know about the demonstrations in ljubljana. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we also know that the rising cost of living has brought the middle and lower income classes to their knees. and what has the union done about it? i don't know anything. instead, the salaries of executives in large companies continue to rise, while ordinary workers find it increasingly difficult to make ends meet. in conclusion, i would like to recall that mr almunia stressed that a possible increase in wages must also have an impact on productivity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, in the six weeks since the election of mr christofias as the new president of cyprus, more progress has been made towards trying to find a lasting solution on the island than in the previous four years. the atmosphere in cyprus is full of renewed hope, but one thing is threatening to destroy the euphoric climate. this is the continued interference of the turkish army. a week ago the chief of staff of the turkish army paid a sudden visit to cyprus and made a number of inflammatory statements that almost stopped the peace process in its tracks. today, the commander of the turkish land forces was due to go to cyprus and his presence is expected to create more problems for the peace negotiations. i urge the president of this house and all my colleagues to use any diplomatic means at their disposal to strongly point out to the turkish generals in ankara that they should stop trying to destroy the peace dialogue in cyprus and leave the cypriots free to get on with the job of finding a solution to their island’s intercommunal problems. thank you, and may i also say, mr president, how grateful we all are for your generosity in allowing so many people to speak this afternoon.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to congratulate the commissioner on his excellent report. you are very familiar with cancer, because you were president of an oncology centre before you came here as commissioner. so you must be used to what you hear. i will not deal with statistics, you will hear from my colleagues. 30% of the mr trakatellis said that prevention could save 30% of people. i, as a doctor oncologist, tell you that another 30% can be saved with validated screening programs. but how many of the 27 countries in the european union have such programmes? so you have to do something about it, like coordinate and help. perhaps you should also use funds from the structural funds and the 7th framework programme to help all these practices. the recognition of the oncology, very important what you said, you have to help with that too. the slovenian presidency is to be congratulated, but another important issue must be the creation of a permanent working group on cancer.
madam president, cancer, as many know, is not necessarily an incurable disease. modern treatment methodologies, along with early and more accurate diagnosis, mean that many forms of cancer are today eminently treatable with success. of course, much remains to be done and this is why the eu must take it upon itself to declare an all-out war on cancer. we must fight this disease on all fronts, with strong aggression and endless determination. our efforts must, for example, be directed at making sure that efficient screening programmes are in operation and implemented among those sections of the population that most need them. they must also be directed at ensuring that sufficient funding is always available to the research institutions that provide our hope for the future. our citizens must be reassured that cancer can be defeated and we, in the european parliament, are determined to continue to support this fight until, and unless, this is accomplished. in conclusion, let me take this opportunity to add my congratulations to the new health commissioner, mrs vassiliou.
mr president, cancer may cause chronic illness and can possibly lead to disability, therefore in order to make new paragraph 34a more accurate and more credible i propose an oral amendment to include the words ‘may include’ and ‘possibly’ in the appropriate areas in that subparagraph.
mr president, the council has decided to wage a war of nerves with the united nations and to manage the situation in kosovo through unilateral initiatives which do not reflect the rule of law and international law. the decision to send eulex to kosovo to take over the role previously held by unmic is therefore a wrong move. the council decision states in article 5 that the mission will be transferred between the un and the eu force at the end of the former's mission. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. finally, the fact that slovenia and france have told serbia that it must accept eulex, otherwise it risks not joining the union, i consider that to be unacceptable, to say the least!
mr president, freedom of the press is a fundamental principle of democracy and we rightly expect the turkish penal code to be amended so as to respect this principle. however, in order to be persuasive, we have to make sure that this principle is properly applied in the eu member states too. i would ask colleagues to consider, objectively, whether the press in europe is really democratic and free. the answer is ‘not really’. the press in the eu is to a large extent manipulated and directed by non-journalistic economic and political interests. the media, in many cases, present the truth not as it really is, but as certain media barons wish the public to perceive it as being. the time has come for us to look critically at how the press functions in the eu and take urgent corrective action. we should be firm with turkey on freedom of the press, but at the same time we should take action in our own countries against press corruption.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the european commission not only for its communication but also for the excellent cooperation we have had with it. i would also like to thank all my colleagues - and especially the shadow rapporteurs - for the very hard work we all did together to reach the compromise amendments which were voted unanimously. the main issues that the commission is dealing with in its communication and that i have dealt with as rapporteur are the following: the risks of transplantation and safety and, in particular, the transmission of diseases, the shortage of organs and the illegal trafficking of organs. let me refer to each of them separately. in terms of quality and safety, the use of organs in therapy carries a risk of transmitting diseases to the recipient. therefore, donor screening is important to minimise risks to the recipient and it is important to examine donors for the presence or absence of a risk of transmission of any disease. a minimum set of tests should be carried out to establish the standard level of safety of the donor. it should be noted, however, that there is currently no consensus among member states on these tests. as regards the shortage of organs, the severe shortage of donor organs remains a key challenge faced by member states in organ transplantation. the increasing size of waiting lists is a serious problem. the establishment of an effective system for identifying persons who could become organ donors after their death - provided, of course, that all the mandatory consent requirements in the member states are met - has therefore been recognised as an important element in combating the shortage of organs. another important option to increase the number of donors would be to explore the possibility of promoting altruistic donations from living donors. at the same time, careful consideration is required of potential donors who would not normally be considered ideal candidates, and these are naturally called extended donors. for example, transplants from people who carry the aids virus to hiv to other seropositive people could be permitted. now, as regards the illegal trafficking of organs, commissioner, everyone knows that organ trafficking is taking place. we all know that rich western tourists exploit the economic needs of people from poorer countries. we have all heard that there are organ price lists, that there is a black market for organs, particularly in countries in the far east, such as india, pakistan, china, and that these things are happening even in enlarged europe. i therefore support amendment no 7, paragraph 57, by my colleagues frieda brepoels, peter liese and john bowis, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, and it is important to improve the monitoring of cases of organ trafficking so that we can finally draw the necessary conclusions. i would also like to stress that altruism must be the main motivation for organ donation and transplantation. the economic terminology used in the commission notice is therefore not appropriate. in particular, in the light of the principle of non-commercialization of the human body. that is why i could not support amendment no 2 in paragraph 38 by mr martin and mr machakis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. the principle of non-commercialization of the human body is also expressly laid down in article 3 (2) of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i have no more time, ladies and gentlemen, because the four minutes are up. i reserve the right to speak after your speeches.
mr president, i wish to congratulate the rapporteur on his truly excellent report. allow me to take this opportunity to raise an important but highly controversial issue, which, although not the subject of decision presently, nevertheless needs to be addressed at some stage: this is the concept of presumed consent. most potential donors’ organs never become available, because the system of obtaining the consent of the donor in life, or of his or her relatives, can never function to such an efficient degree so as to overcome the constraints of narrow time limitations, the sensitive psychosociological manifestations of bereavement and the complex technicalities of organ harvesting and transportation. the answer to this problem of organ availability is decidedly to presume that all dead people are donors unless this is specifically objected to in time by a close relative or by the donor when alive. i know that this is not easy for legislators to accept, but i hope that this will cause some serious and mature thinking in the future, based on realism and bearing in mind the enormous number of lives that could be saved if such a system were put into effect.
member of the commission. − mr president, this has been a very interesting and lively debate and no wonder, given the seriousness and importance of this problem. now, a lot of issues have been raised. i will try to comment on some of them. non-commercialisation of organs is a very important issue and i believe, and agree, that organ donation should be done on an altruistic and voluntary basis. that is why, of course, donor cards should be voluntary, and the same applies to the european donor card, which we intend to introduce in our action plan. good practices exist in some member states and these good practices should be shared with other member states for the benefit of all. the commission’s directive on quality and safety will, i assure you, be flexible enough not to affect donation whilst ensuring basic requirements throughout the european union. i also want to confirm that traceability will be included in the directive. consent for donation is a particularly sensitive issue, which needs to take into account local and cultural attitudes to donation and transplantation. i wish to point out, on this point, that national authorities are responsible for deciding the legal requirements and practices regarding donation consent in their own member state and for ensuring that their citizens are aware of their rights in this area. i would like to say that the use of stem cells from cord blood has proved to be useful for the treatment of some malignant diseases, such as cancer. the commission supports the development of cord blood banks and the use of this technology. i also think that it is very important that we raise awareness among european citizens, so that we encourage the increase of both live donations and donations after death, because, in this way, we shall also – as i said in the beginning – indirectly fight trafficking. in order to prevent transplant tourism, i think it is very important that citizens should be made aware of both the dangers regarding the safety and security of organs and the ethical questions that may arise. as we know, in many third countries, very poor and vulnerable people are being exploited for the purpose of organ extraction. finally, honourable members, i would like to thank you once again for providing us with such a constructive report. in particular, i want to stress the fundamental aim of saving lives, whilst recognising the important scientific advances in organ donation. i therefore look forward to continuing our close and constructive collaboration and presenting the commission’s proposal to this house later this year.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, i would like to thank all those who have spoken on this particularly sensitive subject and i would like to make a few comments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr maaten has also given some figures which are very correct: 80% of the citizens polled are in favour, but only 12% have the card. but there's another number that should be troubling: that of the people who had donor cards, when the time came to become donors, 50 percent didn't donate their organs because their family refused. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european card is used in the member states. as regards the issue raised by mr machakis on 'presumed consent', which according to the honourable member who spoke on scotland also solves the problem, this is a matter for the member states. it is for the member states to decide whether to apply such a measure. there is also the principle of subsidiarity which we must not forget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. why don't we have coordinators in the various hospitals, trained doctors, trained nurses, who can identify who the potential donors are, so that the process can go forward and so increase the available organs? mrs margrete auken, who is not present at the moment, said that we will never be able to fill the gap in organ donation. as a doctor and a scientist, i will answer that i may not be alive, or we may be talking about a decade from now, but in the next few decades, we will be able to build the organ we want from the cells of the person who needs it. it could be from the skin or something else. commissioner, you have spoken about the umbilical cord cells, and you have spoken about their safeguarding. but i would like to point out here that it is very important that we do not leave them to private companies for a fee. in my home country of cyprus, there is the karaiskaköy foundation which provides this service free of charge. but there are also three private companies that charge parents to store umbilical cord cells, which are both precursors, which are both stem cells, and which are very valuable, as you know. as for the reference to trade, what can i say? the honourable member referred to the report by mrs carla del ponte. i would have waited to see this report earlier, to be honest. and, of course, this is further proof that smuggling is also taking place in the wider europe. i thank you all once again, and i think it is time we took action as european citizens: to mobilize, to coordinate, to raise awareness among those around us and to set a good example: that is, to become organ donors ourselves.
the rapporteur. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although the use of human organs for transplantation has increased steadily over the last few decades, the number of people in need of transplants is greater than the number of organs. over 50,000 patients are on waiting lists in europe, while 10 die every day waiting for an organ. it is up to us to send a strong message to the commission, but also, and above all, to the member states and our governments. it is time for us to act as european citizens! to mobilize, to coordinate, to raise awareness among those around us and to become donors ourselves. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, very briefly, this is a short amendment to make amendment 2 to paragraph 38 stronger in its meaning with respect to the rights of the donor. the amendment is to add, after ‘donate an organ’, the words ‘is the exclusive right of the donor and’.
mr president, this house is becoming habitual in passing resolutions, resolutions which are totally ineffective to a very large extent. also, we are used to applying sanctions, which are also totally ineffective, because they are not directed at those who are responsible for really changing things, but are, as in this case, directed at the ordinary people of burma, whose lives we are making even more miserable. it has already been mentioned that the real culprit in this case is china. are we directing any sanctions against china? no! the eu market is flooded with defective goods that we are purchasing from china. why are we not applying any sanctions to china in order to see how that affects the situation in burma?
madam president, i do not think i need to repeat what has already been said by the previous speakers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union's action must be based on the following three pillars: the european union has a duty to help the countries of central and eastern europe to develop their economic and social cohesion. this is a european problem. secondly, the principle of solidarity must be applied here in practice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we created frontex. that's good! the commissioner says that it is organized and staffed and that it is reinforced by all means. but will frontex solve the problem? i have my doubts! the reasons for the migration have been mentioned by colleagues, etc. we need to strengthen frontex. but what is needed most is to turn our attention to the mediterranean countries and to strengthen land and sea operations so that we can at least prevent the influx of illegal immigrants. i am referring to cyprus. cyprus has recently become a target, through the turkish-occupied territories, of illegal immigrants from the middle east. the european union has the means and the ability to intervene in turkey to stop this matter. but apart from the aspect which we have all dealt with, there is another aspect which we must discuss: the question of human rights. this is a serious matter. we cannot, in the name of combating illegal immigration and immigration in general, accept concessions on the issue of human rights. the european union's human rights principles and values must also be applied in the treatment and handling of migrants. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
madam president, the problem of illegal immigration is a very complex one. it only partly involves the defences around the borders of a country and of the european union in general. we have to examine the reasons and the drive that bring these people into europe. they risk their lives and the lives of their loved ones. they travel for thousands of miles. they endure atrocious conditions but still continue to come. so it is my premise that, even if we build a six-metre wall around the whole of the european frontier, they will still come. the commissioner said something else which is very wise. these people come because we need them. there is work for them in our member states. so why can we not find a system where we can legalise the illegal immigrants? why can we not find a management system whereby these people can be channelled into our countries through legal and safe means?
mr president, like ms doyle earlier on, i thought i had a longer time, but taking advantage of your generosity, i will settle for a minute and a half. biodiversity is essential in order to safeguard the survival of the earth’s ecosystems and to maintain an invaluable genetic pool of distinctive species-specific characteristics. this parliament has reiterated its concern on biodiversity loss through its relevant resolution of 22 may 2007, but one of the main obstacles to halting biodiversity loss is, i am afraid to say, the lack of effective action by both the commission and the council, both of which give the impression that they care about the matter largely only in theory and that, in practice, they suffer from lack of will and determination in making sure that, in real terms, there is full implementation of relevant directives and that both international and internal commitments are fulfilled. let us hope that, even at this late stage, the commission and council will act decisively and constructively in helping, partly through their firm stance at the forthcoming conference in bonn, to protect biodiversity effectively.
madam president, even at this late time of the day, listening to the debate, i feel the need to say just three things. first of all, it is true that there is no scientific evidence that gmos pose a hazard to human or animal health. however, as a previous speaker, who has now gone, mentioned, asbestos was not thought to be hazardous and, yet, we know today that it causes mesothelioma – lung cancer. and, of course, smoking was not thought to be hazardous to anybody until a few years ago and now, of course, we know that it causes lung cancer, pulmonary disease and coronary artery stenosis. so it is better to be safe than sorry. secondly, mr allister and mr casaca talked about the difference between gmos in feed and animals that have been fed on gmos. there is a large difference between the two. there is a difference, because, in the feed, the gmo is in a completely different state from the gmo that has been fed to the animal, digested by the animal and metabolised by the animal, and then is just, probably, present – but it is not – in the animal’s meat in a completely different form than in the feed.
mr president, i offer many congratulations to ms ferreira for an excellently balanced report. our environment is suffering under the insults inflicted as a result of an ever-increasing world population and man’s uncontrolled appetite for materialistic consumption. the climate is changing, biodiversity is suffering and natural resources are diminishing. the rapporteur, having fully understood the task at hand, is rightly supporting the view that the main market instruments needed to remedy the situation are financial incentives and taxes. consequently, i fully support the idea of an eu environmental taxation system, which will inevitably have to be uniform amongst the member states. at the same time, an effectively revised carbon emissions trading scheme will, i am sure, help to improve matters significantly. of course, one should never forget the fact that making citizens adopt environmentally friendly lifestyles is not just a market-based issue: creating an environmentally caring consciousness also involves proper education and learning from an early stage and continuing throughout life.
madam president, very briefly, two days ago we adopted a policy action at eu level on organ donation and transplantation. i thought this was important enough to include it in this motion for a resolution with a suitable short reference as indicated in the voting papers.
author. − mr president, following many years of british colonial rule and a period of apartheid dictatorship by ian smith, the then rhodesia, now zimbabwe, was led to independence by a group of freedom-fighting persons, including mr mugabe. nobody can deny the contribution of these people to achieving freedom for zimbabwe but, as is so often the case, excessive and long-lasting power, along with opportunism and an uncontrolled appetite for personal materialistic gain, soon corrupted the altruistic spirit of freedom and democracy and turned the ruling regime of mugabe into an oppressive governing body with no forward vision and with excessive totalitarian manifestations. the result has been the international isolation of zimbabwe and the continuing slide of the state into poverty and corruption misery. in the recent elections the people of zimbabwe demonstrated their desire for a much-needed change, but the mugabe regime does not want to relinquish power and it is now seriously risking throwing the country into anarchy and civil war. through this motion for a resolution we are sending the message that the wish of the people of zimbabwe, expressed through the electoral process, must be respected. we are also making sure that those in africa who say that they really care about the situation in zimbabwe fully assume their responsibilities, view the reality of the situation, assess mugabe, not as he was many years ago but as he is today, and act decisively to bring about democratic transition in zimbabwe.
author. − mr president, however much one tries to be understanding about the different society, lifestyle and circumstances prevailing in a deeply muslim state like iran, one cannot help but feel shocked and angry at the grossly undemocratic and brutal treatment of women in that country. some examples include the exclusion of women from most senior state offices and appointment as judges, the discriminatory rights of women in marriage, divorce, child custody and inheritance, the fact that evidence given in court by women carries only half the weight of that given by a man, the legal age of marriage of women at just 13 years and the condemnation of women to severe and degrading punishment, and even death, by primitive and barbaric means, even for such presumed crimes as having an extramarital relationship. instead of the governing regime of iran making efforts to improve the situation, attempts are presently under way to make matters worse. an example is the draft bill on family protection, which is currently under consideration and which aims at further legitimising polygamy, temporary marriage and the unilateral right of men to arbitrary divorce and child custody. in addition, the iranian authorities are conducting an ever-increasing campaign of repression of female activists and women’s rights defenders in general. we call upon the iranian regime to try to free itself from religious fanaticism and long superseded, failed political philosophies and, using common sense, to try to bring its country back into the 21st century, rather than plunging it further into the dark ages of the extreme muslim totalitarianism of the past.
author. − mr president, chad, the fifth largest nation in africa, has had a very troublesome post-colonial history. civil conflict, guerrilla warfare, military coups, religious and ethnic divisions, combined with a hostile, semi-desert environment and a problematic regional neighbourhood, have led to almost continuous unrest in the country. consequently – and despite the fact that chad is rich in gold, uranium and oil – chad is a state suffering from severe poverty and resultant poor health and social conditions. the present governing regime, led by president deby, having come to power after a coup in 1990 and with a number of dubious electoral wins since then, has been reportedly involved in numerous acts of severe oppression and persecution against opposition politicians, human rights activists and journalists. arbitrary arrests and detentions, torture and extrajudicial killings have been documented. let us hope that this motion for a resolution will send a clear message to mr deby, as well to all other parties involved in that troublesome part of the world, that the time has come for national reconciliation, the strengthening of democratic processes and respect for human rights. at the same time, this resolution aims at trying to reassure the people of chad that the european union stands by their side in their hour of need and will continue to do its utmost in order to assist in the achievement of peace and prosperity for all the citizens of their country.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, commissioner, the commission's report on the new cycle of the lisbon strategy overstates, in order to confirm the success of the policies pursued, that economic growth in europe rose from 1.8% in 2005 to 2.9% in 2007 and will reach 2.4% in 2008. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. economic growth will fall to 2% this year and eventually to 1.8% in 2009. we have made this point in order to make it clear that in conditions of a liberalised market, as is also the case with the emu and neoliberal globalisation, growth, apart from being unequal, is also uncertain, because the instruments used are those which belong exclusively to the dogma of market forces. even this ultimate target of fighting inflation, which is the european central bank's institutionalized obsession, will reach 3.6% this year. what is it ? do the tools of the "laisser faire" fail even for the limited goals for which they are used? but it is certain that the ten years since the start of emu raise other reasonable questions. what can be gained by the conservatism and dogmatism of the stability pact which takes for granted that all countries start from the same starting point and that budgets must be balanced and that the deficit must be reduced every year, regardless of the people's living standards and regardless of whether it is already below 3%? what social benefit does the obsession with not increasing social spending, even in good times, have for young people and workers? what framework and policies are being followed for those workers whose minimum income in the majority of member states ranges from eur 92 to eur 668, in a situation of - albeit prolonged - price rises and inflation? there may be a decline in unemployment today compared to 1999. but there is an even greater rise in uninsured, precarious employment which not only does not improve the living standards of the population but undermines them. what is needed today is a total change of direction away from the current frameworks and policies. this requires the majority of the european union population watching schell and bp to make profits of 4.2 million euros an hour in the name of the so-called free market, while workers are tested by the increasing uncertainty in work and the loss in the real value of wages.
mr president, when the eu talks about human rights violations in third countries, in order to be adequately convincing it must itself have a shining record of respect of such rights by all the eu member states. as other speakers said, this is unfortunately not so. i will use only one example, which concerns britain. the uk maintains, in violation of international conventions, two colonies in another member state – cyprus. these two colonies, namely akrotiri and dhekelia are inhabited by approximately 10 000 cypriot civilians who are eu citizens although their homes are on land which britain, for obvious reasons, has excluded from the eu. these people do not have the basic human right of electing their executive authority. they are governed by a governor who is a british army general appointed by the queen of england, and they do not possess the right of having an elected parliament. the laws applicable to these colonies are at the full jurisdiction of the governor. in effect, these eu civilians live under a british military dictatorship. it is truly shameful that the ep, the commission and the council always turn a blind eye to this situation. maybe other member states have their own dirty linen that they do not want exposed or maybe these institutions do not really believe in the principles of democracy and justice they claim they stand for, or maybe the eu cares for human rights only when it does not concern its own members. maybe whatever. one thing is for sure: the continuation of british colonisation in cyprus brings disrepute and loss of credibility to any eu report on human rights in the world.
mr president, the cyclone that hit burma on saturday brought devastation and suffering to the people of that country. up-to-date reports speak of 22 000 dead, 40 000 missing, hundreds of thousands injured and one million homeless. yet, illogical and cruel as it might seem, international efforts of help have been hampered by the military dictatorship regime of burma. one example is the fact that, four days after the catastrophe struck, visas for foreign aid workers are still not issued in time, with the generals in burma presenting ridiculously naive excuses which no intelligent person takes seriously. could the president of this house, in addition to his message of sympathy read out earlier on today, send a very stern warning to the junta of burma and indirectly to their guardians in beijing telling them to stop frustrating international assistance efforts and start at least trying to behave, if not democratically, at least humanely towards their own people?
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all, in reply to what mr stevenson and what mrs miguélez ramos said regarding the timing, i need to stress that the commission – respectfully, resignedly – accepts the times for debates set by parliament. allow me to thank the rapporteur, mrs miguélez ramos, and all the members of the committee on fisheries for a very thorough report. as you know, the eu is an important stakeholder in deep-sea fisheries. the key eu member states participating in these fisheries are estonia, france, ireland, latvia, lithuania, poland, portugal and spain. their landings represent the largest amount of global reported catches. overall, the economic and social importance of the community high-sea bottom-gear fleets is relatively minor compared to the eu fisheries sector as a whole. nevertheless, in certain countries and regions – notably spain and portugal – it contributes significantly to catches, employment and value added at a local level. deep-sea fisheries started in the late 1970s, developing rapidly from the 1990s onwards as a result of three factors. first, significant reductions of fishing opportunities in shallower waters due to depletion of stocks and the extension of the national jurisdictions under the united nations convention on the law of the sea in the 1970s. second, the high value of some deep-sea species, and third, the advances in fishing technology that allow fishing at greater depths. our regulation on deep-sea fishing tries to establish specific access requirements and associated conditions for fishing of deep-sea stocks. in fact, some progress has been made with respect to the previous development stage of the fishery, where there were no rules. our latest proposals for the setting of tacs and effort limitations have increasingly been based on scientific information as this becomes more and more available. what we can be sure of is the fact that the state of these stocks has worsened in recent years. scientific advice calls for additional data both in terms of quantity and quality. our new proposal for data collection, currently being discussed within council, also takes into consideration these issues. furthermore, new surveys to cover deep-sea fishing grounds will be included as part of the member states’ obligations, and additional biological sampling will be requested in our implementation proposal for data collection. however, it is clear that the rules contained in our deep-sea fishing regulation need to be reviewed. our communication analyses its drawbacks and points to the problems that need to be addressed. we hope to start a review exercise of this regulation, establishing specific access requirements and associated conditions applicable to fishing for deep-sea stocks with your valuable help. a thorough consultation involving all stakeholders should take place in 2009, with a view to considering stricter rules to be applied to this fishery. from your report it is clear that we share the same concerns and objectives, and we hope that we can work closely together to take urgent action to protect the stock.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. – mr president, many congratulations to the rapporteur for her excellent work. the proper management of deep-sea fish stocks is essential in order to promote the sustainability of the use of the seas and safeguard the conservation of marine ecosystems. with these principles in mind, an opinion was prepared and strongly endorsed by the envi committee. this opinion consisted of a small number of suggestions aiming to complement mrs ramos’s report and enhance its effectiveness and applicability. it highlighted, amongst other things, the need to reduce total allowance catches, in conformity with the relevant scientific advice, and to adhere more strongly to the recommendations of the international council for the exploration of the sea. furthermore, concern was expressed over the inefficiency and poor implementation of the current regulations, especially with regard to the issue of monitoring and control procedures in member states. in addition, it emphasised the advantages of setting up a network of marine protected areas within the natura 2000 system. also included in this opinion is reference to the need to develop common guidelines, exchange best practices, improve the use of available technology and involve think tanks and ngos in order to better implement measures to reduce illegal fishing and the sale of illegal catches in european markets. the necessity of promoting more environmentally friendly catching methods, which do not harm the environment and ecological biodiversity, was also mentioned. the report, supplemented by the accepted opinion recommendations, is fully supported by my group. however, we are unable to support the three amendments submitted, as we feel that these run counter to the need to properly and effectively protect our sea ecosystems.
mr president, the peace programme has contributed to the peace process in northern ireland not only in terms of financial assistance but also by helping to bring the two communities together. its approach has been to work with civil society and ngos to promote active citizenship. it has allowed the individuals involved to seek solutions to their own problems. this is an example of the commission’s contribution to peace-building and reconciliation, and it should be congratulated on this. the report refers to sharing the experience gained by peace with other regions facing similar problems. as a member from cyprus, i think it would be extremely interesting to put this experience into effect in the case of cyprus. i call on the government of cyprus and on the commission to examine this possibility as a component in the provisions of any political settlement.
mr president, commissioner, an important issue which has not received sufficient attention from the commission is that of supporting island regions in the european union, other than those mentioned in the treaty, which nevertheless have similar characteristics. the island member states on the periphery of the union must be treated on an equal footing with the so-called outermost regions. this is necessary in order to respect the principle of equal treatment, because island member states, as well as island regions of member states, face to some extent similar severe territorial and geographical handicaps as do the outermost regions. small island member states and island regions of member states should therefore be given the same treatment as the outermost regions and a similar preferential strategy should be applied to them, such as a separate state aid scheme, so that they can become a bridge of communication for the european union in areas such as the eastern mediterranean.
mr president, as one of a very small number of men attending this important debate, and as a scientist myself, i feel the need to say this:in my long experience as a medical practitioner i found that women scientists were just as good as, if not better than, men. the only problem for women in achieving top positions has, in my view, been the very hard choice they have had to make in deciding whether to be a full-time mother and a part-time scientist or the reverse. women have always made the choice to be full-time mothers. i therefore feel that this report is very important. i congratulate the rapporteur, but we need practical ways of helping mothers achieve top positions and not just theoretical ideas.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i should like to congratulate mr papadimoulis for his excellent report and for the hard work he put into ensuring good cooperation with all the shadow rapporteurs as well as with the commission and council representatives. the aim of the proposal under consideration is to ban the export of metallic mercury from the community, as well as to ensure that the mercury does not re-enter the market and is safely stored in line with actions 5 and 9 identified in the community strategy concerning mercury, on which i had the honour to be rapporteur and which was adopted by parliament two years ago. such actions are necessary in order to limit further additions to the global pool of this highly toxic heavy metal. after hard negotiations a deal was achieved with the council and agreed to by all political groups to my knowledge. this agreement was based on the acceptance of a compromise package by all the shadows. unfortunately, subsequent to such an agreement amendments were tabled on behalf of the ppe-de and pse groups which, if voted for, will mean that the whole compromise package collapses and the matter will go to conciliation, with inevitable further delay in the adoption of measures to protect public health and the environment from continuing contamination by mercury. regarding these amendments, apart from the question of principle and going back to the initial agreement, there are also strong arguments on substance which the rapporteur has communicated to all meps in a fair and eloquent manner and it is thus not necessary to repeat his arguments now. suffice to say that my group stands by and will honour its agreement with the rapporteur on the compromise package and can only hope that other political groups will do the same. let us all remember that small, short-term local or national benefits should not overshadow large, long-term global gains. finally, let me reassure my spanish colleagues that the people of almadén will have my full support for their just demands, which, in my view, can be achieved fully through the compromise package and not in opposition to it.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, congratulations to mr blokland for his – as expected – excellent report and for the very good cooperation offered to all shadow rapporteurs. the subject matter of this green paper is very important, as well as being deeply worrisome. much of the dismantling of ships as presently done can rightly be characterised by many as criminal, both with reference to human health and also with reference to the environment. most such dismantling, as we all know, takes place on beaches and river banks on the indian subcontinent with no or minimal concern for the most basic rules of protection of humans and of the environment from contamination by a variety of toxic substances, including numerous carcinogenic agents. additionally, workers in such dismantling places are treated with the utmost disrespect for their human and labour rights and for their dignity, not to mention the use of child labour in truly atrocious conditions which, in some cases, differ little from child slavery in its most despicably shameful glory. a small number of amendments have been submitted, most with the support of the rapporteur. we shall follow his position, with the exception of amendment 1, for which we can find no reasonable explanation why it does not meet with mr blokland’s approval and for which we shall vote positively, and we trust that others will do the same. in giving our full support to this green paper let us hope that ship dismantling, regrettably a most necessary eventuality for the shipping industry, is done in the future in an environmentally, socially and hygienically safe manner and that it will provide a much needed but properly and safely earned income for the population of developing countries. let us also hope that the ideas in this report are put into legislative form as soon as possible and that its scope is extended to include military as well as commercial vessels. finally, let me say that i agree with previous speakers that our eventual aim should be a globally accepted strategy for ship dismantling.
mr president, listening to the debate this morning i feel the need to make a couple of comments. first of all, the scientific evidence. there is no doubt that establishing the presence of global warming and its causation is a very complicated business. this is not a test-tube situation where an experiment can be done in a laboratory to prove something one way or the other. the evidence is based on long-term observations and very complicated procedures and of course there are some doubters, some scientists who have a different opinion. this is not new. scientists are well known for differing in their opinions: let us not forget that even the causation of cancer by smoking has been doubted extensively by many scientists and they are still doubting it today. we all know of course what the truth is. the same of course has happened with thalidomide and the causation of phocomelia in human embryos. the second point is that emphasis should be placed on a global approach because we all know that the countries which pollute the most, i.e. the usa, china and india, are doing the least about combating global warming.
madam president, if and as long as turkey fully complies with all the copenhagen criteria and the obligations it has undertaken under the association agreement and the ankara additional protocol, then it should be able to join the european union. it is clear to us that the aim is full membership for turkey and that any form of partnership is not an alternative. the prospect of turkey's accession to the european union is also a lever for pressure to respect the human rights of all the people of turkey, the kurds and religious minorities. despite our concern about the ongoing judicial process against the ruling party and the superficial change to article 301 of the penal code, we believe that turkey has made some progress. but to move forward smoothly, it must do what the previous acceding countries have done and comply with its contractual obligations to the european union as a whole. the european union is not prepared to accept the turkish government's proposals. to open its airports and ports to aircraft and ships of the republic of cyprus and to lift its veto on cyprus' participation in international organisations. today, and in the light of the developments we are witnessing in the efforts made by the greek cypriot and turkish cypriot communities, following the agreement of 21 march between the leaders of the two sides in cyprus, turkey must not present any obstacles.
mr president, i congratulate ria oomen-ruijten for her balanced and fair but strict approach on such a controversial issue. military coups are now old-fashioned and are being replaced by a coup d’état by the judiciary. it is unbelievable that the constitution and laws allow the judicial overthrow of the government democratically elected by 47% of the people, for a charge totally disproportionate to the requested sentence compared with eu, council of europe or venice commission standards. eu principles are incompatible with a ‘deep state’ or the military hindering the government from responding to its new challenges: on cyprus, to demonstrate, now that negotiations have resumed, that ankara has the political will to reach a settlement based on the principles on which the eu is founded, without the presence of turkish troops on the island or the right of unilateral military intervention; on human rights and the freedom of expression in article 301; on respect for the rights of non-muslim religious minorities and the orthodox ecumenical patriarch; on the obligations of turkey relating to the ankara protocol; on issues like crimes of passion against women and the conspiracy of silence that exists on this issue; on the issue of the armenian genocide and the blocking of armenia and so forth. these are the challenges turkey faces if it wants to prove that it is a candidate country destined to become a member of the european union.
madam president, we all know that the main obstacle to turkish progress towards democracy is the turkish army, an army that not only controls millions of soldiers and their dependants, but also controls political parties and processes, the police and secret service, much of the judiciary (including the supreme and constitutional courts), as well as the religious, educational, social and economic affairs of the country. since general atatürk’s revolution in the 1920s, turkey has in reality been under a military dictatorship, either directly or indirectly. recently, the prospect of eu accession has given the opportunity for some brave people like the leaders of the akp party to challenge the army supremacy. we have a duty to help these people not just with words, but in deeds. the army derives most of its strength from the support of the west. billions of euros in direct aid and in lucrative joint defence ventures are given by the usa, britain, germany, italy and spain. these countries and others, including russia and china, have a duty to cease all such economic support to the turkish army until and unless true democracy is securely established in the country.
madam president, we all know that today there is a new climate in cyprus. the greek cypriots and the turkish cypriots both want a solution to the cyprus problem and are interested in serving the interests of cyprus, the interests of both the turkish cypriots and the greek cypriots. this is precisely where turkey's role comes in. turkey has a military wing in cyprus. he is politically in control of the situation and it is time he realised that he must abandon this policy. it is in turkey's interest to have the cyprus problem resolved. the military, which is interfering in a negative way in the whole process, needs to understand that the cyprus problem must be solved. it is time for the occupation and the interference of turkey to end so that greek and turkish cypriots can live in peace within the european union. we can do this, and i believe we can live in peace.
madam president, the situation in burma following the recent catastrophic cyclone is tragic and is getting worse every day. those civilians who survived when the cyclone first struck now face illness and death by hunger, lack of shelter and appropriate medical care. yet the military dictators ruling burma remain largely apathetic to the urgent need to allow proper help to reach the victims. these heartless military generals care much more about clinging to power and far less about the destiny of the disaster survivors. the way the burmese regime has acted and continues to act is unacceptable and criminal. the international community, and the eu in particular through commissioner michel, has done its best to convince the junta of burma to listen to reason but, alas, without the desired effect. i think there is now no other way but to proceed with some form of forced aid delivery to the affected region. such an undertaking can be launched with urgent approval from the un and with the necessary logistics provided by appropriate military delivery systems in close coordination with other countries such as the usa. this is truly a last-resort, exceptional measure, but is absolutely necessary in my view in order to save thousands of innocent lives. we just cannot remain inactive and watch the suffering and demise of the burmese people go on any longer.
mr president, i should just like to add that mr sacconi has earned a reputation of trust, efficiency and respect in everything to do with reach. he therefore deserves, and will have, our full support in the present draft reach test method regulation as well. i wish to thank him for all the hard work he has been doing in this field.
mr president, congratulations to the rapporteur for an excellent report. animal health is important, not just because it is closely linked to human health and environmental biodiversity balance but also because it has a huge farming trade and economic significance, not to mention the social and sports importance of animals, so it would not be an exaggeration to say that animal health is almost synonymous with human health and well-being. with this in mind, it is not surprising that a new animal health strategy for the european union for 2007-2013 is very much needed. the report before us tonight is well thought out and balanced in my view and will form a good but rather synoptic basis on which to build our future legislative and non-legislative directives relating to this important matter. let me just take this opportunity to point to a couple of important areas where the commission needs to clear things up somewhat. the report strongly supports vaccination as a fundamental means of preventing disease. this is, as far as i know, contrary to current practice with respect to at least one major animal illness, foot-and-mouth disease. in the case of foot-and-mouth disease, vaccination in the eu member states is prohibited as a preventive measure because of the consequent difficulty in identifying infected animals from vaccinated animals when using screening tests for the presence of disease antibodies. is the commission intending to change its vaccination policy for foot-and-mouth disease in the near future? furthermore, what is the position of the commission with respect to the fact that in most third countries animal vaccination against foot-and-mouth disease is not only allowed but encouraged? will importation of animals from such countries be prohibited if the vaccination policy for foot-and-mouth disease in the eu is not changed? the second area is the lack of necessary implementation of adequate health checks in the increasing international trade of live birds, especially parrots from third countries. this is an area which needs tidying up.
mr president, i just want some clarification. do we have a reason why these people are not here, why the rapporteur is not here? do you have an excuse or some information?
author. − madam president, the un estimates that the conflict in sudan has resulted in about 300 000 deaths and has left approximately 2.5 million refugees. reports of untold acts of barbarism taking place in the region have abounded in recent years. the suffering of the innocent civilian population has been extreme. those that allegedly were responsible for instigating or carrying out war crimes or crimes against humanity should face the law and, if found guilty, must be punished accordingly. this is not just necessary as a matter of natural justice but also in order to make sure that such individuals are prevented from repeating their crimes and that adequate example is given to other potential criminals to prevent them from carrying out similar crimes. the international criminal court was formed in order to make sure that those that commit war crimes and crimes against humanity do not go unpunished. sudan has signed the rome statute which created the international criminal court but has not yet ratified it. this is no excuse for not offering this court its full cooperation in according with un security council resolution 1593. the international criminal court issued two arrest warrants against sudan’s former minister of the interior, mr ahmad haroun, and against the militia leader ali mohammed ali abd-al-rahman. the warrants relate to 51 counts of alleged war crimes and crimes against humanity. for more than a year now the sudanese authorities have refused to hand over these individuals and are thus obstructing the work of the international court. this is absolutely and utterly unacceptable. such behaviour makes the sudanese government an accomplice of these alleged criminals. we call on sudan to think again, and think fast, about the grave position they have placed themselves in by protecting these alleged mass killers from the arm of international law. we hope they will come to their senses and abide by the request of the international court immediately.
author. − madam president, belarus is a beautiful and important country with much potential for progress which can lead to enviable prosperity for its citizens. unfortunately, vital democratic norms are presently much compromised in this country. this is mainly due to the inability of the governing authorities to come to terms with the need to respect the necessities of freedom of expression and other democratic principles. such respect is an indispensable requirement of any non-dictatorial government. reports coming out of belarus of arbitrary arrests of members of civil society and opposition activists, of the use of excessive force against peaceful demonstrators and of repression of independent media journalists are evidence of practices which should, and must, be terminated immediately. we call on the belarusian government to see reason, to change its tactics and to choose the road of freedom and democracy rather than the road of suppression and totalitarianism, which can only lead to worsening of the conflict with its own people and with the international community.
author. − madam president, burundi has been in a precarious state for a number of years. the scenes of barbarism that took place in the 1990s between the hutus and the tutsis will always remain deeply embedded in our minds and will always seriously disturb our conscience. numerous attempts by the international community, as well as by regional players, have not yet resulted in the much desired long-lasting peace and stability in the area, although it has to be said that much progress has been achieved. the recent military confrontations between the national defence forces and the national liberation front have resulted in the loss of innocent lives and are most disturbing. both sides must realise that they must resolve their differences at the negotiating table and not on the battlefields. both must realise that violence will only bring more violence. the rebel group must denounce violence and lay down their arms, but at the same time the government of burundi must cease to provide impunity and to cover up for criminals within the security forces who carry out torture and illegal detention. let us hope that common sense will prevail at last and that the main sides involved in this brutal internal fighting in burundi will manage to resolve their differences peacefully for the sake of the safety and well-being of the people of their country.
mr president, you are probably aware that the buildings of the european parliament in strasbourg contain a more widespread presence of asbestos than was originally anticipated. work for upgrading purposes and, more recently, for removal of the asbestos has been carried out since 2004 – apparently while the buildings have been in use. this is, in my view, unwise and hazardous behaviour, because any work on asbestos-containing structures inevitably releases carcinogenic fibres into the atmosphere. it is my opinion that the european parliament in strasbourg must not be used unless and until all asbestos is appropriately removed and the buildings have been thoroughly decontaminated. in the interest of public health and transparency, i request that the president of this house make a fully comprehensive statement on this matter of asbestos removal from the european parliament in strasbourg as soon as possible.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. − madam president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent report. many marine ecosystems in the high seas are unique and vulnerable and – most definitely and appropriately – need protection from the sometimes devastatingly catastrophic effects of bottom fishing gears. the proposed regulation is undoubtedly a good step in the right direction, but much more may need to be done in the future as more knowledge and experience is gathered on deep-sea marine biology. the application of the precautionary principle, as a basis for formulating some of the parameters of this regulation, is judged to be both necessary and wise. as always, the success of any regulation depends to a large extent on the degree of its proper implementation, and on-board observers will help in this respect. it is very much hoped that, despite some inevitable inherent weaknesses in this respect, this regulation will turn out to be a success both in theory and in practice.
alde). − madam president, several speakers have claimed that there is no scientific evidence – or no evidence at all – to support the choice of the depth limit of 1000 metres. this is not so. in fact, to give you an example, there is scientific evidence from fishing operations at 840 to 1300 metres in the west of ireland. carbon-14 dating revealed that the cold-water coral matrix taken as by-catch in this fishery was at least 4550 years old. so there are vulnerable ecosystems – as shown by scientific evidence – at that depth. in addition to using the precautionary principle, i think it is wise to choose to have such a limit.
madam president, the new impetus given to the barcelona process mediterranean union has been well presented by commissioner ferrero-waldner and previous speakers. the ideas of barcelona are now even more pertinent than ever. the prosperity gap between the european union and most mediterranean countries has unfortunately increased. gradual free trade with the european union has not attracted the domestic and foreign investment needed to boost the standard of living of our mediterranean partners. a lot will depend now on the success of the new projects proposed, which must be visible and tangible to ordinary citizens on both sides of the mediterranean, and affect and attract the interest of the private sector: projects dealing with topics such as civil protection, the effects of climate change, drought and the lack of water, forest fires, the de-pollution of the mediterranean sea, and the development of technology to make the best use of solar energy for the benefit of both sides of the mediterranean. common projects for all mediterranean countries, north and south, are one of the keys to success. the issues of migration, social integration, justice and security are also of mutual benefit and visibility. let us not forget that our partners are now transit countries for the waves of migration from sub-saharan africa. the question of funds, particularly with a more ambitious project such as this one, remains open. the more tangible and visible the benefits of this project, the more willing the member states will be to provide funds.
mr president, i would say to the commissioner that planning to build motorways will not solve the serious problems facing the mediterranean area, unless she is intent on convincing president sarkozy to build a six-lane motorway linking france with turkey! commissioner, i was disappointed with your introductory speech, because you did not address some of the major political problems in the mediterranean. i refer, for example, to the occupation by israel of land belonging to the palestinians; to the occupation of cyprus by turkey; and to the continuing colonisation, in this the 21st century, of part of morocco by spain, which has two colonies in morocco, and to britain’s two colonies in cyprus and – i understand – one colony in spain. unless you address those serious issues, we will not be able to turn the theoretical plans for a mediterranean union into a reality.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i also wish to offer my congratulations to the rapporteur for the hard work he has put into this report. this proposal aims at reducing the administrative burdens in food-related enterprises. specifically, the express goal is to exempt micro-enterprises from basic haccp procedural obligations but without, of course, in any way compromising food hygiene and consumer health safety. this was deemed necessary as companies with less than 10 employees, whose activities consist predominantly of the sale of food directly to the final consumer, are suffering severely under the heavy bureaucratic necessities of haccp to the extent that, in many cases, bankruptcy becomes an inevitability. such an aim is fully in line with our expressed wish to support small businesses in their antagonistic and – in most instances – unfair fight for survival against the large companies. this aim appeared at some stages of our deliberations not to be shared by either the rapporteur or the council. it became my understanding that their preferred line was – and, it seems, probably still is – to provide exemptions and flexibility equally for all companies, large and small. at first sight and in theory, this may appear proper, but in practice it is grossly unfair to small companies and clearly defeats the purpose of having this piece of legislation in the first place, which is of course to help the micro-enterprises. some may argue that this is preferential treatment and unfair competition. they may be right on strictly legalistic and oversimplified theoretical grounds but, in terms of fairness and long-term planning, it is the same as putting a 6-foot champion and a 3-foot child in a boxing ring on exactly equal terms. our philosophy is that, in some circumstances, the small and weak need some privileged assistance. otherwise our free internal market will become a deadly pond where the big fish will eat the little ones and then probably eat each other. our voting philosophy reflects this. i urge you to vote to protect the small businesses of europe.
mr president, today the general affairs council is meeting and among the subjects to be discussed, the outcome of which i do not yet know, is the proposal for upgrading the european union's relations with israel. today too, fishermen in the gaza strip are protesting against the inhumane measures the israeli state is taking against them, on the one hand by prohibiting them from fishing in their open sea area and on the other by depriving them of sufficient fuel, thus forcing them to fish on the shallows where raw sewage is being spilled unchecked. the risk of epidemics from this situation is immediate and frightening. i would like to ask you, mr president, to take note of the request made by these fishermen that the european union should not proceed to the upgrading of its relations with israel under these circumstances. in addition, another reason why this upgrade cannot now take place - particularly for us meps - is because israel has once again shown that it does not respect human rights or our own, when forces from that country violently suppressed recent peaceful protests against the racialist wall of separation, injuring protesters including my colleague luisa morgantini.
mr president, water pollution takes place in rivers, in lakes and in the ground, but it can also take place during transportation. this risk has been aggravated recently with the drought we are having in southern europe, where a large number of oil tankers are now being converted for the transportation of drinking water. this is an area where, perhaps, expertise is lacking. i would like to ask the commissioner to make sure that such transportation will be totally safe and devoid of any pollution by aromatic hydrocarbons, which, as we all know, can cause serious damage to both humans and animals.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, recitals a and d and paragraph 4 of this resolution clearly stress the value of prevention. this is extremely wise, as prevention is always better – much better – than cure. in this respect i wish to speak about a particular type of preventable mass disaster: that of building collapse. i was prompted to do so by an event that occurred in cyprus very recently. last wednesday the steel roof of the 1 100-seat capacity municipal theatre of nicosia collapsed, suddenly and without warning. the force of the falling steel beams and other debris crushed the seats below. luckily the theatre was empty at the time; otherwise hundreds of civilians would have been killed or injured. in the previous few days this theatre was packed with children attending various school events. two weeks ago the visiting bolshoi ballet performed there to a packed audience, and a few months ago president barroso – along with many eu officials, meps, the president of cyprus, ministers, mps and many others – attended the ceremony of cyprus’s entry into the euro area in the same theatre. it is a miracle that a mass disaster of huge proportions did not occur. it is noted that major reconstruction works costing approximately eur 6 million were carried out in the building only three years ago but it seems that none of the responsible, esteemed and highly paid architects, engineers, government officials etc. managed to diagnose that the 50-year-old steel roof was totally unsafe. it is suspected that other public buildings in cyprus may be structurally dangerous but, due to apparent negligence or ignorance, or corruption concerning relevant authorities or departments or private firms, corrective measures are not being implemented. a similar situation, in fact, may apply to other eu member states. incidentally, in cyprus, public buildings are, mostly, totally not subject to anti-seismic legislation, although private buildings are. i call upon the commission to make sure that, with this resolution, a check is carried out on the safety of buildings in the eu.
mr president, the customs union is a wonderful thing but it would be even more wonderful if it was adhered to by all countries concerned. i am of course referring to turkey, which, despite much pressure put upon it by the eu, continues not to implement or ratify the ankara protocol with respect to cyprus, thus effectively imposing an embargo on all shipping and air transport with cyprus. i ask you, why is the eu letting turkey make a mockery of our rules and regulations? why is turkey allowed to get away with such unacceptable behaviour? why does the commission not force turkey either to implement the customs union fully or be excluded from it altogether? how long must we put up with such disrespect and ridicule from a candidate member state that wants to think that it is european?
madam president, we must ask ourselves: is there a problem of illegal immigration in the european union today or not? the answer is definitely that it exists and that it is acidic. the second question is whether this problem should be tackled at european level or whether it should remain a problem for each member state. the answer to the second part of the question is no, the problem must be tackled by the european union. we're all set on this. the european union has so far implemented a comprehensive and comprehensive policy to deal with this problem? and here, the answer, unfortunately, is no! we're dealing with the problem piecemeal. and the discussion that's going on today is about a fragment of this big problem called illegal immigration. but we are forced to go forward step by step. there is another question: we are discussing a compromise today. is this compromise between the european council and the european parliament the perfect one? the answer is no! is he the one we wanted ? i certainly am not! is he the one we could talk to, as long as we had the time, to get somewhere? again, the answer is no. the european parliament has been discussing this with the european council for two and a half years. i congratulate mr weber on the work he has done and on the result he has achieved, but i am not entirely satisfied with it. the question is, however, whether the situation is improving. the answer is it's getting better. so the next question arises: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the member states. and i say, yes, we are in a dialogue. that would be good, too. i was moved by the approach that "the earth belongs to all people". i am really moved by the idea that we cannot behave irrationally towards these people. but there is reality. there are organized societies and we must, of course, protect human rights, but at the same time the interests and rights of organized societies and of organized states.
the common denominator of the energy market proposals, madam president, is the restructuring of the energy market to the benefit of private sector companies and the weakening of public energy suppliers, who will, however, remain the main cost bearers. in my country, where the energy market is controlled by public providers for the benefit of the citizens, this would have adverse consequences. the european union calls for the basis of the price pyramid for all other goods to be left to capital, since energy largely determines the cost of the production process which will be passed on incrementally to the consumer. in our age of ever-increasing energy demand and ever-rising oil prices, leaving the energy market at the mercy of private energy giants would be disastrous, with the potential for cartel formation. the theory of price regulation through competition is a myth, since it has in fact led to the creation of oligopolies in a number of sectors of the economy and to the elimination of the market and consumers.
mr president, if we accept the chlorination of american chicken, how can we stop demands for the chlorination of other products in the future, for example other meat products – beef or pork – either imported or produced inside the eu? what about eggs, cheese, vegetables or fruit? all the conditions that the commissioner has told us would apply, in exactly the same way, to all the products i have just mentioned. what about the use of other antimicrobials? perhaps in the future we will have demands from the americans to be able to use penicillin or other antimicrobial agents on our imported chicken. in any case, even if tests on the outside show that there are no microbes on the surface of the chicken, perhaps there are a lot of microbes inside the chicken and we will not be able to detect them because the surface would falsely show that the chicken is free from salmonella or other microbes.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, congratulations to the rapporteur on his excellent report. as already mentioned, many thousands of pedestrians and cyclists are killed or injured every year on the roads of the eu. our aim as meps is to help reduce these numbers as much as possible. one way of trying to do so is to alter the technical specifications of motor vehicles. some of these – for example, frontal protection and brake assist systems – have been considered in this report, but one of the most important of all life-saving vehicle specifications is not given attention: this is a speed limiter. such a system would limit the maximum speed of a car to the maximum permissible speed in any given country. this limit, in most eu member states, is 100 km/h on the motorway, and 50 km/h in built-up areas. through relatively simple and cheap electronic gadgetry, it would be a straightforward matter to fit vehicles with a device which would ensure that these limits are not exceeded on the motorway or in town. such speed limitation would probably prevent a third of all deaths of pedestrians and cyclists. such a speed limiter could also be adjusted to control the rate of acceleration of vehicles, and this would save even more lives. we must ask ourselves how necessary and wise it is for our vehicles to be able to accelerate from 0 to 100 km/h in five or six seconds, and how important and legal it is for our vehicles to be capable of doing more than 200 km/h, if the relevant speed limit is only 100 km/h? i can understand how a rapporteur with the name ‘ferrari’ would find it difficult to agree with me on car speed reductions, but the real truth is that speed kills road users in excessive numbers, and at some point we, as law-makers, will have to make up our minds on the following. what is most important: fancy fast cars and speed-enthused drivers, or saving thousands of human lives?
mr president, i wish to congratulate mr markov not just for the quality of his report but also for his perseverance in concluding it, in spite of the obstacles put in his way, mainly by some members of the transport committee – perhaps inadvertently. it is, indeed, regrettable that, when dealing with a report whose sole aim is to save thousands of eu citizens’ lives, certain colleagues, using perhaps suspiciously and british-imperially, nationalistically motivated legalistic excuses, have tried to stop this proposal by the commission from being advanced on apparent subsidiarity grounds. perhaps some of us ought to consider more carefully the view that what europe needs today is more unity and cohesion and less subsidiarity. nevertheless, the delay caused is not without some benefit also, for it has given a chance to the rapporteur to better his report by incorporating, amongst other things, many amendments tabled to the first report draft. this is much welcomed. on the substance of the report, my main point is that i agree with the rapporteur that annexes i, ii and iii should be binding. if these were not to be so, then the value of this proposal would surely diminish. i would like to conclude by taking the opportunity of reminding the house and the commissioner of two important issues on road safety. firstly, an effective high-friction coefficient road surface can reduce the stopping distance of a vehicle by as much as 50%. this can make an enormous difference in reducing car accidents on our roads. my second point is not directly related to this report but is worth making again and again at every possible opportunity. it is this: one third of all fatal car accidents are alcohol-related. many are attributed to alcohol levels in drivers’ blood which are below the existing legal limits. citizens and ourselves should not be fooled. there is no safe alcohol level in drivers. any alcohol intake impairs driving capability. if we want to reduce substantially the number of people killed on our roads then we ought to consider implementing a policy of zero alcohol level in drivers.
mr president, for the sheep farmers of my country, cyprus, the main problem for the last year has been the confusing and, as it transpired, apparently false results relating to foot-and-mouth-disease diagnosis which were supplied by an animal disease reference laboratory in the uk. this animal disease laboratory is used by the commission as a reference laboratory. the results it supplied led to thousands of animals being killed and to a catastrophe for many sheep farmers on the island. this laboratory, i note, is the same place from where the virus escaped a few months earlier, causing an outbreak in the uk with devastating results for the farmers there. may i call on the commission to take a second, more critical, look at the standards of the animal disease reference laboratories it uses, in order to make sure that their scientific credibility is of the required highest level?
author. − mr president, numerous resolutions have been passed by this house condemning burma’s military junta for the severe breaches it has committed repeatedly against the human rights of the burmese people. yet these heartless generals take little notice of what we tell them. instead, they continue their firm hold on power in a most disgustingly pompous and irritating manner. even following the devastation of the recent cyclone, they not only hampered aid attempts from the free world but also took advantage of the misery of their citizens in their time of need by promoting their own image as apparent samaritans and angels of good by gross exhibitionist appearances on the junta-controlled state media and by holding a referendum on the constitution only days after the cyclone catastrophe struck. those who oppose the junta are tortured, killed or put in detention. an example, of course, is the nobel peace prize winner aung san suu kyi, who led the national league for democracy to victory in elections held 18 years ago and has spent 12 years in detention – and recently the junta decided to further extend the period of her house arrest. i feel that the time has come for more severe measures to be taken against the monstrous junta in burma. the most effective measure would be to exert pressure on china to stop supporting it. if china does not cooperate on this, then we must take action in relation to our trade relations with beijing and with regard to the chinese olympic games. this is probably the only way left to us to do something about freedom and democracy in burma.
author. − mr president, somalia is a country stricken by civil war and poverty over a number of years now. thousands of civilians have died as a result, and hundreds of thousands have suffered and are still suffering. the international community has taken some action and, it has to be said, with some limited success. but the plight of the somali people continues, and the killing of civilians in that region, unfortunately, has now become a routine matter. bold and effective additional action is necessary, mainly – in my view – as follows: firstly, the un arms embargo on somalia must be strictly enforced. this must include china, which is the usual culprit in such situations. secondly, it must be ensured that all un and eu aid going to somalia reaches those in real and legitimate need and does not enter the pockets of war lords. thirdly, pressure must be exerted on the un security council to proceed urgently with the implementation of its unanimous decision of 15 may 2008 to deploy a sufficiently strong un peacekeeping force in the region – making sure, of course, that such peace-keepers are not of the same quality as those who recently were accused of committing crimes against the local population they were supposed to protect. fourthly, the african union must, once again, be made to understand that it bears primary responsibility for what is happening in african regions such as somalia, and – instead of much ineffective rhetoric – it must take urgent and practical action against all those regimes or other parties or factions that are throwing african people deeper into primitive and desperately dramatic situations.
author. − mr president, the brutal activities of the theocratic iranian regime against its own people are well known and have been the subject of previous resolutions by this parliament. this regime is known to commit – in the name of god, they claim – systematic and despicable crimes against innocent civilians. resistance in iran is extremely difficult and fraught with the risk of death. outside the country iranian civilians are struggling to fight for a democratic change in their country. such people include those belonging to the entirely non-violent pmoi organisation. yet the commission had put this organisation on the terrorist list and until recently was refusing to correct this mistake, even after relevant eu court rulings. i ask the commissioner: why was this iranian resistance organisation put on the terrorist list in the first place? is it because some eu member state or states having lucrative trade contracts or relations with iran wanted to please the regime in tehran?
mr president, i only wanted to take the floor for the second time in order to bring to the attention of my colleagues a book which discusses human rights abuses in iran in 2007. it was brought to my attention just a little while ago and it contains many shocking references, one of which is about a girl waiting to be hanged named ameneh salam from a village in naqadeh whose crime is that she became pregnant without being married. incidentally the man who made her pregnant was sentenced to 99 lashes.
mr president, in order to avoid any possible confusion about the vessels which have been the victims of piracy off the coast of somalia, i propose to insert the words ‘especially those’ after the word ‘vessels’ in paragraph 8. this is in agreement with the ppe-de and pse groups, i understand.
mr president, what is happening in zimbabwe is remarkably sad and overwhelmingly atrocious. mr mugabe, a former fighter for freedom from colonial slavery, has now turned into a ruthless dictator and a barbaric suppressor of justice and the human rights of millions of his countrymen. the international community – the eu included – has exhausted itself with its rhetoric, statements of condemnation and largely ineffective sanctions. the time has come for re-election. to this end, i believe that mr mugabe should be brought before an international criminal court, charged with crimes against humanity. i strongly believe that such a measure is fully justified and realistic and will, i am sure, bring about the desired and urgently needed effect, which is to help the people of zimbabwe get rid of a totalitarian regime that is fast leading the country into self-destruction. i believe the eu needs to be a protagonist in the move to bring mugabe to face international justice.
mr president, i wish to speak about the food enzymes proposal on which i was a shadow rapporteur. in that respect i would like to offer my congratulations to mrs doyle – and i hope she gets here safely from ireland tonight – for an excellent report. i also wish to express my thanks for the very good cooperation afforded to the shadow rapporteurs, a cooperation which was always conducted in a spirit of understanding, an effective exchange of political as well as adequate scientific wisdom. this cooperation was good enough to produce a much-desired compromise which has widespread support across the political groups of this house, and which i believe contains many eminently sensible parameters which will strengthen the piece of legislation under consideration, and will make it much more effective and more easily applicable. with this compromise package in mind, i think that the objective of the proposed regulation – which, as is well known, is to harmonise legislation controlling the use of enzymes in food processing in the eu, with the primary aim of protecting human health but also secondarily to promote fair trade and competition – will be very largely achieved. we are particularly pleased that the precautionary principle, which is held in sacred regard not just by my group of meps but by the large majority of meps in parliament in general, features prominently in this report, and this should make european consumers feel that much is being done to secure the protection of their health as regards enzymes in food. additionally, special emphasis is placed on guaranteeing that the information given to the consumer is precise and useful. as expected, the issue of gmo involvement has been an area of some controversy. however, a sufficient compromise has been reached. in concluding, i wish to say that this is a good report and my group will strongly support it.
mr president, we are talking about this project as if this is the first time in the world an underwater pipeline is being built. there are dozens of pipelines crossing our seas, with no problems whatsoever. we have the technology today to bring gas, to bring energy, to areas that need it, and millions of german citizens need this gas and they need it urgently. we must be honest enough to realise that the purpose of this report is not to stop gas coming into germany or into the eu, but to stop it from crossing the baltic sea and to get it overland. it is stated clearly in paragraph 25 that it is possible to transport it overland, so it can pass through poland purely for political and economic reasons. we must be honest enough to admit it. it is unethical to use environmental concerns in order to achieve political objectives and, for that reason, i will vote against it.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. it enables european union citizens to add up periods of residence or work in another member state under the social security system of that member state in order to calculate their state pension or to secure other rights. in this way it helps to facilitate the smoother and easier movement of citizens within the union. i should like to point out, however, that it should not be overlooked that, even with some of the examples in the report, there will be an electronic exchange of information and personal data, which we do not agree with at all. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the important thing is not to take measures to help traffic just for the sake of taking them. the workers do not make this a priority but demand and demand that their basic rights be respected. the social need is not the movement from one country to another because of lack of work or because of poor working conditions in the country of origin. the social need is to ensure certainty and security in the working and, by extension, in the family life of every citizen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the course being taken today in the european union, which puts the free movement of capital above the obvious rights of workers, as we see in a number of cases condemned by the weu, shows that we cannot be satisfied with the right to transfer our pension rights, to show that the free movement of people is virtually guaranteed. we need to call for full employment with comprehensive social security in contrast to current practices which, under the pretext of demographic problems, push for the logic of precarious work and the undermining of the importance of collective bargaining in one country or another.
mr president, our position on enlargement is that the peoples of europe have the right, if they so wish and if they meet the necessary criteria, to seek membership of the european union. this principle also guides our positions on turkey, whose accession process also affects the process of solving the cyprus problem. we are convinced that the european union will not be able to continue to support the democratic process in the country, but we are convinced that the european union will not be able to continue to support the democratic process in the country. without prejudice to the european union's obligation to respect its own commitments, turkey should fully comply with the principles of international legality, un resolutions and european law in lifting the occupation of cyprus, opening ports and airports to cypriot ships and aircraft and lifting the veto on the participation of the republic of cyprus in international fora and agreements. the european union is also calling on the turkish authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the turkish cypriot authorities are able to comply with the new rules and to ensure that the turkish cypriot authorities are able to comply with the new rules.
mr president, it is reassuring to hear the french minister stating in essence that, in order for turkey to prove its wish to proceed with its european aspirations, it must normalise its relations with cyprus. it is indeed inconceivable and defies any sense of logic that the eu will continue accession negotiations with a country that continues not to recognise one of its member states and continues to occupy part of that state. i understand that the carrot-and-stick policy must be used in the case of a country where democracy is constantly under attack by its military, but there are limits to our patience and to our tolerance. we have been to communal talks in cyprus. this is a good time for the commission and council to strongly impress on turkey the need to show goodwill – not only to cyprus but to the eu in general – by urgently removing its occupation troops from the island of cyprus and by immediately implementing the ankara protocol. such moves will undoubtedly act as a catalyst to finding a solution to the cyprus problem. (the president cut off the speaker.)
acting president of the council. - mr president, madam commissioner, mrs benita, madam vice-president, mrs morgantini, ladies and gentlemen, you have raised the issue of the imprisonment and administrative detention of palestinians, including minors, by israel, and their treatment in the occupied territories and in israel. the council considered that criminal policies and practices should, in all circumstances, respect the fundamental principles of human rights as enshrined in the international legal order, in particular through the universal declaration of human rights and the international covenant on civil and political rights. any detention which could be characterised as arbitrary, in particular because the person detained has not been informed of the charges against him, should be prohibited. the principle of the right to a fair and public trial by an impartial and independent tribunal is fundamental in a state of law, and we recall that exceptional courts can be set up only in very specific and very limited cases. it is also essential to respect the obligation to treat people in detention properly and, of course, acts of torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment of prisoners must be banned and severely repressed. the council recognises the worrying state of the human rights situation in the middle east. in this context, the council nevertheless welcomes the fact that the dialogue between the european union and israel addresses all issues, including the situation in the palestinian territories. the issue of human rights remains a subject of constant political contact between the union and israel at all levels. in its statement of 16 june 2008 issued at the end of the association council with israel, the union called for the transformation of the informal group on human rights into a permanent subcommittee. the council is aware of the facts presented by members of parliament, in particular the vice-president, and noted in particular in the latest report by mr john dugard, the united nations special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the palestinian territories, as well as by various non-governmental organisations. the council took the opportunity to express its concern and repeatedly called for the release of more palestinian prisoners. it also reaffirmed its position that the political process launched in annapolis in november 2007, which must be accompanied by confidence-building measures on the ground, is the only way to achieve a negotiated solution between the parties based on the coexistence of two states, namely an independent, democratic and viable palestinian state living in peace alongside israel with secure and recognised borders. in this context, and in order to rebuild trust between the parties, and to involve the civilian population in the ongoing political process, the council calls on israel to take meaningful action, including the release as a priority of palestinian children, women and elected officials who are imprisoned or held in administrative detention. (applause) i would like to thank you. as regards the invocation of the instruments of international law referred to by mrs morgantini, the council maintains its position of defending and developing international law, as stipulated in the european security strategy, as adopted by the council in december 2003. i would like to stress that the presidency, on behalf of the european union, welcomes the exchange agreement between israel and hezbollah, which we learned was signed on monday. the agreement provides for the return of bodies of hezbollah fighters and the release of palestinian prisoners in exchange for the return of the bodies of israeli soldiers ehud goldwasser and eldad regev captured in 2006. we hope that this exchange will take place as agreed, but this dossier also reveals, for the future, the complexity of the 'prisoners' issue in the middle east conflict and the importance of resolving this issue. the council recalls that the political process, as defined in the road map, is the only way to reach a negotiated solution between the parties and, as i have indicated and in the terms i have indicated, to the coexistence of two states.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all to mrs morgantini i would like to say that i am very sensitive to the question that you have put to us today. last february i, too, met with the palestinian minister for prisoners’ affairs in the company of mrs fadwa barghouti, the wife of marwan barghouti, who is in prison. i listened very attentively to them. their account of the situation of prisoners corresponds to those of the reports the honourable members, and you personally, quote in their question. i would like to stress therefore that i am very concerned about human rights violations and i have great sympathy for the suffering of palestinian prisoners in israeli jails. the commission is very mindful of israel’s responsibility as an occupying power, and of conflicts with international law these conditions illustrate. we therefore regularly raise, for example, the issue of administrative detentions with our israeli counterparts, both in informal and in formal settings. the single case that you mentioned today touches me very much and if i could have the documentation i will personally try to do what i can. maybe there is a chance of getting this mother to see her son again. the european union has also called many times for the immediate release of palestinian legislators detained by israel. the commission is also aware of the palestinian children who are held in israeli prisons and detention centres. this contravenes the un convention on the rights of the child that sets the minimum age to 18 years for minors, as well as the fourth geneva convention that requires prisoners to be held within the occupied territory. these detained children are particularly vulnerable. we know that. their treatment must be brought into compliance with international law. we need to give increased attention to the situation of children affected by this conflict situation. this is why the european union has added israel and the occupied palestinian territory to the list of the priority countries for the implementation of the eu guidelines on children and armed conflict. in line with these guidelines, the european union also integrates all aspects of the rights and well-being of children affected by the conflict into the political dialogue with israel. in addition, the european union also cooperates closely with un agencies, as well as israeli and palestinian ngos, actively involved in monitoring, reporting and advocating the rights of the child. the respect for human rights and compliance with international law is one of the fundamental values of the european union. it is an essential element of our foreign policy. consequently, protecting human rights is of great importance in our relations with israel. our human rights dialogue with the israeli authorities at different levels bears witness to this. the commission, in its meetings with the israeli authorities, and i personally in my meetings with israeli decision-makers, will certainly continue to urge israel to comply fully with international law and conventions. the european union stated at the last association council with israel very recently its desire to set up a formal subcommittee on human rights. this would then be an important step forward to further formalise a dialogue on these issues. article 2 of the eu-israel association agreement will continue to remind both the european union and israel that respect for human rights and democratic principles are the basis of our bilateral relations. we believe that dialogue is the most promising means to exert a positive influence on israel. we do not shy away from raising difficult issues, such as the one the honourable members have inquired about. i completely agree with the presidency when it says that all this has to be seen in the context of the middle east conflict, and therefore i think a solution to this conflict would in the end also mitigate or even solve the problem of the prisoners.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am speaking on a personal basis on this issue. successive governments in israel are pursuing a policy of trying to suppress the palestinian people’s wish to live freely on their land by using the iron fist and the bullet and by arbitrarily arresting, imprisoning, torturing and murdering civilians, including women and children. this they do most unwisely, not realising that the genuine problems of security that israel is admittedly facing cannot be solved by this type of inhuman response. on the contrary, such brutality can only bring about more violence and can only slowly erode away any international support they might have enjoyed in the past. the time is long overdue for the eu leadership to boldly warn the governing jewish politicians that, if they continue to act as nazi-style military commanders and if they continue to think that the support of the us leadership and those they influence in europe – not excluding meps – will be there for ever, they will sadly but inevitably and with mathematical precision lead their state into non-existence.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, at our last plenary session in strasbourg on 16 june you made a statement on the situation in palestine. your statement reflected the disappointing findings of the ad hoc committee which, on your initiative, visited the palestinian territories at the beginning of june and noted the miserable living conditions of the palestinians imposed by the israeli occupation. today is the time for the council and the commission to give answers on the actions they intend to take in order to show the occupying power, the state of israel, respect for international law as regards the situation of palestinian prisoners in israeli prisons. today we, the members of the european parliament, are asking the council and the commission to explain why on 16 june they upgraded the european union's relations with israel, while 11 000 prisoners are being held in israeli prisons in violation of international law, including 376 children, 118 women and 44 members of the palestinian legislative council, as well as 800 administrative prisoners. in two months we will visit palestine again. until then, we ask you to demand on behalf of the whole of parliament that the israeli authorities release immediately all children held in israeli prisons, release those whose cases have not gone through the normal legal procedures ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, mr mugabe’s regime is responsible not only for election fraud but also for arbitrary arrests and the torture and murder of hundreds of citizens in zimbabwe for a number of years now. so far, resolutions and sanctions appear to have been ineffective. i suggest that the time has come to initiate action to bring mr mugabe before an international court of law, charged with crimes against humanity. i know zimbabwe has not signed the convention relating to the international court in the hague, but i am sure some other procedure having an international law basis could be found, and perhaps commissioner michel or the president-in-office could enlighten us on this. i believe that only if such drastic action is taken will this african dictator and his accomplices be forced to start thinking and listening to reason and which will eventually rid their country and the international community of their criminal presence.
mr president, on a point of order, i think mr leinen said that you should have been satisfied that the 40 members were counted at the beginning – i.e. earlier on today. this has not happened. did the president count the 40 members who submitted this earlier on today? obviously he did not. so, mr leinen’s point that this satisfies paragraph 4 does not apply in this case.
author. − mr president, i am very glad about the very wise decision you have taken. commissioner, thousands of civilians have been the victims of extrajudicial killings and forced disappearances, torture, rape and other serious human rights abuses which have occurred in jammu and kashmir since the beginning of the armed conflict there in 1989. shamefully, most of these crimes have not been fully resolved to date. furthermore, there is real concern about the safety of human rights activists, including those who are seeking to investigate the fate of the many missing persons. this parliament strongly condemns all acts involving human rights abuses in the region and calls upon all governments concerned to show a strong will to uphold the rule of law and justice and to redouble their efforts in order to secure full investigations into the politically motivated crimes committed in jammu and kashmir in the past.
mr president, i only want to take the floor again because, as an author of this resolution, i feel obliged to answer what mrs gill has said. it is extremely rare that the urgency subjects we discuss on thursday afternoon go before a committee before they come here, otherwise they would not be urgent. it is an urgency because there are mass graves which have been discovered recently, and we need to sort this problem out. secondly, if the socialist group wants to have a majority when voting, then perhaps mrs gill’s group should make sure that their meps do not leave before the end of the part-session in order to go back home earlier – while we have to stay here and discuss and vote. i would say to mrs gill: i think you should first look at your meps because you are the one who is complaining about it, and then discuss other groups’ meps.
author. − mr president, bangladesh is one of the poorest countries on the planet and one whose physical integrity has an expiry date since, if the curse of global warming is not stopped, much of the country will be submerged under the sea by 2050. the state of emergency, with all its anti-democratic manifestations – a state which was declared by the caretaker government set up in january 2007 amid violence in the run-up to the election – should have been lifted by now. all individuals held under emergency power rules should either be brought before a court of justice or be released. furthermore, the new anti-terrorist ordinance must be urgently brought into line with internationally accepted standards, safeguarding personal rights and freedoms. in addition, the country’s armed forces must terminate their involvement in the political processes of the country and the forthcoming elections must be held in a climate of non-militarised political tranquility.
mr president, i am sorry that i have to take the floor again, but i must again reply to mrs gill. she has made the accusation that the discussion on thursday afternoon and the resolutions are the result of the wishes of small minority groups. can i say that this is disrespectful, unfair and unfounded. these resolutions are discussed extensively at meetings where representatives of all the groups – including the pse group – are present, one or two days prior to coming here on the thursday afternoon. they are approved by the representatives of these groups, if they agree to their content, and then they are debated and voted upon. so, if there is a problem with regard to the socialist group, it is not our concern. it is mrs gill’s group’s problem and concern. perhaps they do not debate these issues sufficiently or in time, but it is her problem. as far as thursday afternoon goes, it is exactly the opposite. it is not the minority groups. the ppe-de group has the majority on thursday afternoon and it is what the ppe-de group wants that passes because they have the majority.
author. − mr president, this house has taken a clear and strong stance as far as the death penalty is concerned. it supports its abolition and the need for an immediate moratorium on executions where the death penalty still applies. the latter is the case in many states in the usa such as georgia, where troy davis is awaiting his lawful killing to be carried out at the end of july. apart from ideological and humanistic considerations against executing human beings, in the case of troy davis there appear to be additional reasons in the form of serious doubts as to the robustness and validity of the evidence which led to his conviction in the first place. such doubts, we believe, justify the reasoning of any individual using common sense that retrial should be granted in this case. consequently we call on the relevant authorities in the usa to order that troy davis be retried and, if found guilty again, that his death sentence be commuted to life imprisonment. furthermore, we call once again on the us government, and all governments in the world that still have capital punishment, to abolish the death penalty in the interests of humanity. in particular we call on the governments of those countries such as china, iran, pakistan and saudi arabia where executions are still carried out regularly, and where in many instances this is done in a most appallingly barbaric way, to stop executions.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the slovenian presidency and the other 13 countries which have signed this proposal and have brought it before us today. it is a great contribution to the cause of justice in the european union. i would also like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, mrs kaufmann and mrs weber, and the rapporteur, mr frança, on the good and methodical work they have done. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would be even happier if we could have the proposal for the adoption of minimum procedural rights for suspects and accused persons approved today. it would be a complete effort. i therefore call on the commission and the council to put this proposal forward as soon as possible. as the shadow rapporteur on the proposal for eurojust, i would like to say that i am pleased that this institution is being strengthened, which, when it was set up, seemed to be just a formal institution with very little prospect and little usefulness. the evidence has contradicted and demonstrated the usefulness and need for further strengthening. i will not go into what previous speakers and rapporteurs have said about what is being added to this body, but i will simply say that i welcome its strengthening. the commission's proposals are certainly good steps towards the development of an area of justice, freedom and security, but we must take more drastic steps and overcome the obstacles of a nationalist approach to the issues and implement a wider european area of justice, so that we can say that the european union really has a single justice. i hope that will be the case with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon.
mr president, the debate on the social package forces us to be critical because, apart from the timing, which raises suspicions about the intentions of the package, we also have strong disagreements about its content. the package came at a time of growing reaction and popular discontent with the social face of europe. the european union is not just a political union, but a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the budget. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of health care, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the health care of elderly people. at the same time, the commission's proposal on crossborder healthcare leads to a class separation of healthcare, as it will enable the wealthiest and most educated to buy healthcare where and where it is in their best interest. the question of a more social europe is a broader philosophy and not simply the announcement of measures which do not touch on the essence of the problems and which remain within the narrow limits of the character of the union today.
author. − mr president, this poor african nation has been suffering from political instability and turmoil for a number of years now. a reflection of this is the fact that two military coups occurred in the country in the last three years. the second of these took place on 6 august 2008. a general seized power in violation of constitutional legality and placed the president, the prime minister, other members of the government and many civilians under arrest. oddly enough, two thirds of mauritania’s parliamentarians have signed a declaration of support for the coup leadership. notwithstanding the possible involvement of fear of persecution, it is an affront to democracy and a sorry state of affairs when elected parliamentary representatives resort to admitting to the failure of the democratic process and declare approval of a military dictatorship. we call upon all political forces in mauritania to put their people’s interests first, and with common-sense maturity to work jointly on restoring the constitutional order in their country. to this end, we urge and expect the eu, the un and the african union to offer all necessary support.
author. − mr president, despite past resolutions of this parliament and of the united nations general assembly, and contrary to basic moral and ethical considerations, the theocratic, totalitarian regime in charge of iran continues to subject its citizens to – amongst other evils – the death penalty. however, it must be said that executions by the dreaded and most barbaric method of stoning appear, thankfully, to be coming to an end. that is without doubt a step in the right direction. nevertheless, the fairness of many trials taking place in iran leaves much to be desired. in many cases, the standards of administration of justice are far from those expected in the 21st century. in addition, persecutions on political and/or theological grounds continue to occur frequently. such practices are a further stigma of shame on the governing authorities in tehran. furthermore, the execution of juvenile offenders continues, despite the international outcry. with this new resolution today, it is very much to be hoped that the leaders of the regime in iran will at last listen to reason and common sense, and will proceed speedily to bringing their country into line with internationally-accepted norms of rational behaviour. the iranian people deserve much better than to suffer the barbarism of blinkered political or religious fanaticism imposed by severely short-sighted and grossly cruel leaders. the time for liberal change in iran is long overdue. let us hope that it happens soon.
author. − mr president, people with the genetic defect of albinism, apart from serious health-care problems, suffer various degrees of discrimination internationally. but recently in sub-saharan africa, and especially in tanzania, albinos have, in addition, suffered unprecedented barbaric attacks of mutilation, with their body parts being used by witchcraft doctors as ingredients in the production of potions that are promised to make people rich. such a state of affairs, apart from its obvious criminality, points towards a seriously backward society in which sickeningly brutal witchcraft practices are still operating. the government of tanzania has an obligation to act swiftly and decisively in the following aspects: firstly, to protect all albinos from further attacks; secondly, to investigate fully all crimes against albinos and bring those responsible to justice; thirdly, to educate their citizens sufficiently, so as to rid them from the curse of witchcraft and superstition and, fourthly, to make sure that people with albinism are offered the best possible medical and social assistance they need in order to lead near-normal, safe and peaceful lives.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, mr vice-president, mr minister, we have before us today two very serious reports, two reports which are exceptional because they are balanced and are the result of wider cooperation on issues on which there is universal consensus: the fight against terrorism and the protection of human rights and, of course, personal data. terrorism is the scourge of our century. it is the lernaean hydra, it is inhuman, it is barbaric, it is ruthless. we must therefore fight it by all legal means, but always bearing in mind that human rights must not be violated. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. what has been said is that the proposal to combat terrorism is based on the council of europe convention. however, we have chosen to diversify the definition of 'public provocation' to make it legally more understandable in all countries. and we are talking about 'public incentives' which is much more in keeping with the spirit of the convention and the objective we want to pursue. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. we had extensive discussions. we have found a phraseology and put in such provisions to ensure that balance which i spoke of at the beginning. anything done in expansion may upset that balance. and any attempt to redefine terrorism will open the floodgates of hell. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i was in the council of europe for three years. we were trying to find a definition of terrorism and we couldn't get it. now that we have arrived at that definition, there is no need to violate it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so there's no need for any further effort. in conclusion, i would like to add that all this is well done. but let us also pay attention to something else: let us turn to those societies in which terrorism is nurtured. we must talk to reasonable people, to moderate elements, so that the moral support from terrorists which is given to these societies can be withdrawn. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
mr president, terrorism as an act is condemned by all colleagues in this courtroom. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the adoption of increasingly reactionary measures confirms that we were right to disagree from the outset with the philosophy of the whole project and that we are right to be concerned today with the substantive safeguarding of the freedoms of our citizens. the amendments that have been tabled invest even more in measures and policies that can put innocent people on the stand and convict them, overturning the fundamental principle of law of presumption of innocence on the basis of suspicion alone. how can public provocation or incitement be a crime when there is no continuance or any action? how far can the interpretation of motivation go? when can it be considered public? when truly dangerous and therefore punishable? the declaratory nature of some of the provisions on the protection of freedom of expression is inadequate, since it is the philosophy which governs the application of the proposal that determines its application, and which, by circumventing article 10 of the european convention on human rights, can lead to the criminalisation of demonstrations, speeches and the like. in our view, the european union is once again making a political choice of course rather than trying to preserve the real freedom of its citizens. it is trying to amuse our concerns with preposterous clauses that do not guarantee the protection of those whom some would like to see as potential terrorists.
mr president, hardly a day goes by without a terrorist act. terrorism is a fulminant infection in the body of our society. like any infection, if left untreated, it will keep spreading until it incapacitates, or even kills, the patient. drastic measures are called for. some of those measures are controversial and undoubtedly infringe somewhat on personal freedoms but, on balance, they are necessary. in an ideal world, strict personal data protection is paramount but, in a terrorism-sick world, concessions must unfortunately be made. exceptional circumstances call for exceptional measures. i feel that this is the spirit in which we must look at decisions on combating terrorism. if we absolutely have to choose between some minor compromises on personal liberties and a much more effective way of fighting terrorism, it is my opinion that we should choose the latter. i conclude with the following question: if promoting certain atrocious crimes like paedophilia on the internet is a crime – and rightly so – why should it not be so for promoting terrorism?
i would like to refer to the report by mr sterckx on the monitoring of vessels' movements and congratulate both him and the presidency of the council on the good progress of the consultations. the most important point for me in this second reading is the ease with which vessels in danger can be accommodated in designated harbours. many accidents, including ecological disasters, could have been prevented if the right shelter had been provided at the right time. in order to reach agreement with the council, it was necessary, on the one hand, to have an independent committee decide on the decision to resort to shelter and, on the other, to agree on a satisfactory system of compensation for shelter ports if consequences arise. a balanced agreement here is understandable. the development of the automatic identification system (ais) in the safeseanet framework is also good. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime transport sector is not affected by the crisis. it is a global industry. the european union's efforts to create a safe environment for people and the marine ecosystem must therefore apply to everyone, not just to european union vessels, so that there is no unfair competition to the detriment of european shipping.
mr president, this directive is wonderful in theory, but it could turn out to be a nightmare in practice. i say this because it could lead to services getting better in some centres but worse in others. i will give you an example: if patients from a small country like cyprus with a neurosurgical problem all go to sweden or britain to have their neurosurgical treatment, then what will happen to the neurosurgical services in cyprus? the standards will diminish, inevitably, and this holds for cardiovascular services, for orthopaedic services, for oncological services and for many others. so we must be very careful. i fully support this directive, but we must make sure that we do not make good centres better and bad centres worse. we must be careful to raise the health standards right across europe, in large countries as well as in small countries.
mr president, i am proud that this directive has been born and promoted by two cypriot commissioners, mr kyprianou and mrs vassilou. the directive is right, it is necessary and it must be implemented. the directive is aimed at patients, who have the right to the best possible medical care, especially when it cannot be provided in their own country. the practical difficulties noted are right and should be heeded because bad practices can result in 'ruining' an otherwise good idea.
mr president, the fat cats of the american banking industry, together with the corresponding fat cats of europe, have for the last few years embarked on an orgy of fraud, embezzlement and corruption at the expense of ordinary people. yet those authorities such as the central banks, finance ministers and eu commissioners, whose duty was to protect the citizens, have in essence done nothing to stop them. after their conspiracy of silence, negligence and cover-up, these authorities now have the nerve to commit taxpayers’ money so that the same fat cats can get even richer. this is outrageous, scandalous and shameful. this is not justice. those to blame for the current global economic catastrophe and those who offered them a cover-up should have their assets seized and should be sent to prison. this is true justice and this is the type of justice that the eu should be about. this is the bald truth about what eu citizens think.
the symbols of the european union, mr president, as all our predecessors have said, have been around for years. what is it that we in the european parliament are seeking to achieve by changing the rules of procedure? we are trying to emphasize what is called the normal use of symbols, as is done in all organizations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. reactions from states which believe that the adoption and promotion of european union symbols will create a super-state. but for god's sake, will the symbols create the super-state that some colleagues have been talking about? some say it will affect the national mood of peoples and states. if the national feeling of any people is so shallow that it is overshadowed by a symbol of the unity of all states, then i am sorry for what the various people call 'national pride'. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the european union is a political union, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of nations, a political union of nations, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples, a political union of peoples. this is an oxymoron. the european parliament is today officially adopting these symbols in the normal way. and it sends a message: that the european union must move forward united under its symbols in order to be complete and to reach a point from which to play its role which is to promote principles and values throughout the world.
mr president, in the northern part of european cyprus, on the kyrenia mountain range, there is a mammoth one-kilometre-long turkish flag, not an eu flag, to be seen. in fact in the whole of the northern part of cyprus, there is a plethora of turkish flags present, not eu flags. this is symbolic not of the unity of europe but of the division imposed by the turkish army on a small eu member state. with the eu-turkey accession negotiations in progress and with peace talks in cyprus under way, pressure must be applied firmly on the turkish government by the eu to remove its troops and accompanying symbol from cyprus and allow our proud eu flag to fly freely in that corner of the eu. the eu flag in cyprus symbolises unity. the turkish flag symbolises division. let us all help to raise the eu flag in the whole of cyprus as soon as possible.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, everybody agrees that health is one of the most precious values for our citizens, yet, as we all know, under article 152 of the amsterdam treaty, health falls exclusively within the competence of the member states. this obvious antithesis is not just a strange peculiarity in eu law; it is, in practice, highly obstructive to our endeavours to achieve optimal health goals within the eu, and one wonders why this situation has been allowed to proceed unchanged for such a long time. the reason, of course, is a financial one. health care is very costly, and improving it to the extent of achieving the desired equality across the eu would mean large increases in health costs for some eu member states. so we can all come to this parliament and criticise the shameful differences in life expectancy, in infant mortality rates and cancer survival from rich to poor member states, but most of us fail to point the blame where it should lie, on the eu’s inability to secure the provision of financial assistance to poorer members in order to help them catch up in terms of the level of health care, and thus stop their governments from opposing the possibility of removing health from the sole province of national competence. this, one could argue, is a sad reflection on the fundamental values we uphold in the eu in practice, whereby we accord greater importance in terms of competence to internal market rules for our businesses, for example, than to health care for our citizens. my position is that the time has come for an urgent change to article 152 of the amsterdam treaty and this can only be achieved by a concerted effort by the council, the commission and parliament. as parliamentarians, we should do our utmost to bring about the required change. that having been said, the most important aspect of health strategy in practical terms is, of course, disease prevention. everybody knows that smoking, obesity, alcohol, drugs, high sugar intake and a stressful, unhealthy lifestyle in general are our health’s greatest enemies, but are we doing enough to free our citizens from these curses? not really. let us take smoking, for example. how can we claim to be doing everything we can to prevent people from smoking when we still subsidise tobacco-growing in the eu, we still allow tax-free cigarette sales on planes and ships travelling to and from the eu, we still have a relatively low tax on tobacco considering the enormous health cost of cigarette smokers, we still have indirect tobacco ads on our tv screens, and we still have laws relating to smoking which have hardly been fully implemented in the eu? i do not have time to say much more about prevention, but i think the main point of what i am saying is the need to change the competence rule relating to health.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, i would like to thank mr peterle for his efforts to bring complementary policies and actions to the community health strategy. in this effort, the aim is to ensure equal access to an integrated health system as a basic and inalienable right of the citizen. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. and at this point, i would like to add that i agree with mr machakis's position: to put emphasis on disease prevention through the promotion of healthy lifestyles, the provision of optimal treatment and also investment in new technologies and research. we should aim for a cross-sectoral policy, coordinated at different levels, to address the key challenges of ageing populations and the huge disparities in member states' health systems.
mr president, temporary workers suffer from the exploitation of employers and there is a need to treat them equally and to protect their safety. the european commission's intention, however, is to de-regulate industrial relations and develop flexible forms of work. in 2007, unemployment, according to the commission's official figures, reached 4.7% and long-term unemployment at 2.8%. the promotion of the flexibility and security model therefore gives employers a powerful weapon to use to promote temporary employment, leading to less favourable conditions of employment and a weakening of collective agreements. the removal of the possibility of regulating such matters by the states and their transfer to the community level aims at the economic integration of the european labour market. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. temporary workers should be protected. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of workers is not compromised by the fact that the safety of workers is not guaranteed by the directive.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the long cooperation we had in producing the report which is before you today and to say that we had a number of meetings discussing the whole subject. family law is a serious matter and this particular aspect that we are looking at in relation to divorce, and i mean jurisdiction and choice of law, was and still is one of the most serious aspects of family law. i must say that our policy is not to encourage the dissolution of marriage, but to support the institution of the family. but divorce is a social phenomenon today and we have to deal with it in reality. we do not want to make it easy but when a marriage reaches a point where it cannot go on, we must be able to provide legal means so that there is no suffering and punishment of one or the other of the couple. i believe that there is no absolute freedom of choice of law in divorce, but it would be possible to be clearer on public policy and human rights, to give the court the discretion to reject legislation which is not in line with european institutions, human rights and public policy. as regards enhanced cooperation, i believe that the commission - and i congratulate you, commissioner, on the way you have presented yourself today - must take this matter further so that we can conclude and, if possible, accept enhanced cooperation.
madam president, many european citizens – including some whom i represent – wanted to ask mr barroso and mr sarkozy whether they thought it was fair that the cost of this financial crisis should be borne by the ordinary european citizen, rather than by those banking executives in the united states or in europe who made millions out of acting negligently – or even criminally in some cases – and who now enjoy their millions by having them in tax-free havens or in secure savings accounts. they also wanted to ask mr barroso and mr sarkozy whether it was fair that, when the american economy catches a cold or has cancer, it should be the europeans who undergo chemotherapy. ‘yes’ to cooperation with the americans, but ‘no’ to dependence.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, the oral amendment i want to propose is the following: ‘the spouses may agree to designate the law applicable to divorce and legal separation provided that such law is in conformity with the fundamental rights defined in the treaties and in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the principle of public policy.’ this oral amendment limits the right of the spouses to have the choice of law as provided for in article 20. i believe that it satisfies the policy of the ppe-de group, which wanted to limit the choice of law so as to be in conformity, as we say here, with fundamental rights and also with public policy. so a judge, faced with this application by spouses to apply foreign law, will judge and say that they do not accept that because it is against public policy or fundamental rights.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr casini has a different view. i believe that the amendments of the european people's party are covered by this oral amendment which i have mentioned and which has been adopted, and there is no need to vote on these amendments which were tabled precisely to support the demand for the restriction of the right.
mr president, i am not mr veraldi; i am mr matsakis. i will be speaking later on behalf of the aldegroup, and i was wondering if, in the absence of my colleague mr veraldi, i could take his slot.
mr president, i hope it does not have to do with counterfeiting medicines. will i get a little extra time along with this allocation?
mr president, i shall not speak for a very long time, but i might speak for longer than my allocated time. i would like to say to the commissioner that it is undoubtedly a fact that the current system of dealing with variations in the terms of marketing authorisations for medicinal products is unsatisfactory and in many cases works against the interests both of the pharmaceutical industry, but also – most importantly – of the patients themselves. it is therefore essential that the revision should be conducted. in this respect the commission’s proposal, and indeed ms grossetête’s report, are, overall, sound and fair and should meet with our agreement. i would, however, like to register my reservations in relation to the following point which concerns the extension of marketing authorisations. the commission and the rapporteur both seem, in my understanding, to agree that it should be possible for an authorised drug to have its name completely changed if it is found that it has a new pathology application. for example, the drug aspirin, whose active ingredient is salicylic acid, could, if the commission’s proposal is adopted, be marketed with a number of different names,even though the chemical component is exactly the same – i.e. salicylic acid. so a patient could end up taking three different tablets, all looking different and having a different name, for three different pathologies, whereas in reality all three tablets would be exactly the same as far as their chemical composition is concerned – i.e. he would, in effect, be taking three tablets of aspirin. this is, in my view, misleading and confusing to the patient and to the doctor and increases the risk of overdosing and of causing dangerous side effects. i therefore call on both the commission and the rapporteur to have second thoughts on this point. since i have a few more seconds, i would like to say that, on the question of counterfeiting medicines, i agree entirely with the commissioner that this is a criminal offence and it puts at risk the lives of patients. but i fail to see why there is a delay. this is a straightforward case as far as i understand. these medicines, which are produced by registered pharmaceutical companies, are sold under prescription by registered pharmacists. if we cannot get to the bottom of this and discover whether some of these are criminally manufactured, then i do not know what we in the eu can do. i would have thought that this is more a police case than a change-in-legislation case. commissioner, we should get to the bottom of this as fast as possible.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, there is no doubt that venezuela has had a traumatic history in recent, as well as more distant,times, and endogenous causes are not the only ones to blame. indeed,exogenous factors are perhaps far more significant in this respect. however, whatever, or whoever, is to blame, it has been mainly the innocent civilian population that has suffered. the present government, headed by mr chávez, obviously has an axe to grind with the usa and its supporters and allies, but that must not lead to such gross violations of the venezuelan people’s rights as the institution of so-called ‘administrative disqualification’ from elections or the persecution and murder of opposition activists. mr chávez must realise that if he wants his country to progress to prosperity, then he must make sure that his government functions strictly within the limits of democracy and respect for human rights. using violence and persecution against his own people can only lead his country to more national trauma and suffering, and this we must not allow to happen.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the eastern region of the democratic republic of congo has in recent years been the site of massacres, as well as a variety of immensely cruel and sadistic crimes against human beings, mainly involving innocent civilians, including many women and children. the african union, the eu and the un have proven themselves to be shamefully incapable of making a determined effort to establish peace in that region. this has been mainly due to the lack of provision of the resources necessary to be effective in protecting the local population and in providing it with much-needed special assistance, and in truly helping to bring about an eventual political solution to the prevailing conflicts. let us hope that this resolution will help to beef up peace assistance to congo and, not least, perhaps to deter those evil-minded governments around the world which continue to provide armaments to the warring factions in congo from continuing so to do.
author.− mr president, this is the sixth european parliament resolution on burma in the last two years, but the monstrous burmese military junta seems to have taken no notice at all of what the eu thinks or says. meanwhile, the ordinary citizens of burma continue to suffer oppression, persecution and poverty, all of which are the result of the brutal, anachronistic and shameful stance taken by the brainless military regime controlling that country. the dictators, of course, continue to get richer and to lead a lavish life at the expense of their citizens’ suffering. it seems that resolutions have little effect on these military criminals and, in my view, the most significantreason for this is the fact that countries like china, india and russia continue to support burma economically and politically. it seems to me that our attention should now be directed not at burma itself, but at those three countries. it should be made clear to them that they must stop aiding the heartless and mindless military generals of burma or their relationship with the eu will suffer severely and irreversibly.
mr president, in coming to the end of this part-session’s debate on human rights here in strasbourg, it is worth noting that life is getting back to normal, with a very few faithful and determined colleagues still present, along with the commission’s representatives – we are grateful that the commission always has representatives at these debates – and, of course, the absence of any representatives from the council. we should all just be gratefulthat the roof has not fallen on us. let us hope that it never will!
the commission's proposal for ten years of economic and monetary union, mr president, is full of contradictions. the aim is to complete a cycle of market deregulation, while the real economy is experiencing a peak in the rise in prices of goods and services. unemployment in the euro area is estimated to reach 8.6% in 2009 and 9% in 2010. developments confirm that the gap between rich and poor has not narrowed to a minimum. the global financial crisis is directly linked to the state's containment and deregulation policy. the commission also stresses that the distribution of economic size has been uneven, but it also calls for continued uniform application of the stability and growth pact and a stronger role for the international monetary fund. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
author. − mr president, somalia is a country whose citizens live in very dire and chaotic circumstances, fraught with dangers to their well-being and to their very existence. this house – and indeed the international community in general – time and again have dealt with the unacceptable situation in that country. both the eu and the un and other foreign agencies have given – and continue to give – much financial and other support to the somalian people. but to add to the country’s grave state of affairs came the involvement of the so-called islamic courts. these are in effect a manifestation of the practice by criminal and evil people of exercising terror on fellow citizens by using religion – in this case islam – as an excuse. the recent execution by stoning to death of the 13-year-old girl victim of rape, aisha ibrahim duhulow, is another example of this practice. but the most recent worrying phenomenon in the gradually disintegrating society of somalia is not just the barbaric extent of such acts of atrocity but also the fact that such a despicable act was carried out by a group of 50 men and was watched by about a thousand spectators. such a gruesome performance of sadistic behaviour is easy to condemn but hard to understand using humanly accepted parameters of societal psychology. the government of somalia, aided by the international community and the african union, must forthwith demolish the devilish islamic courts and those that support or propagate their practice in the country.
author. − mr president, the judicial system of nigeria is fraught with inadequacies, neglect and corruption. to add to such a dreadful state of affairs, anachronistic islamic sharia courts have jurisdiction over criminal courts in one third of nigeria’s states. such religious courts, run by sick-minded fanatics, continue to this day and age to terrorise the population by handing down sentences of death, flogging and amputation. we in europe, of course, condemn the operation of such anachronistic religious courts, but how about the islamic world itself? why do islamic political figures and islamic states, some of which are globally and regionally very powerful and influential, and some of which we have trading partnerships with, why do they not take responsibility and strongly fight against sharia law, islamic courts and other such evils? why do islamic religious leaders themselves in some of the more advanced islamic countries not condemn such use of islamic religion? in my opinion their silence or lukewarm reaction amounts to quietly supporting such activities and such a stance is, for me, just as criminal as those who actually administer sharia law. let our message of disgust with this aspect of islamic fundamentalism reach those in the islamic world who should be doing something drastic to change things for the better, but unfortunately they are not.
author. − mr president, let me commence by stating that i am speaking in a personal capacity on this topic. let me also say that i am well aware, as you all should be, that whatever is said in this chamber regarding israel gets scrutinised very meticulously by the israeli authorities and then gets totally disregarded as far as the substance of the matter is concerned. the only action taken is to attack, in various ways, those meps who criticised in any way, shape or form israeli wrongdoings. i have had personal experience of this. during the recent debates in this house on palestinian prisoners in israel, i used strong language to attack the israeli government officials. i did this in order to stress to them that their stance on the palestinian prisoners was – and still is, i am afraid – utterly inhuman and criminal. subsequent to my speech, not only did the ambassador of israel to cyprus embark on a political defamation campaign against me, but, more importantly, the speaker of the knesset, ms dalia itzik, wrote an official letter of complaint against me personally to the president of the european parliament. mr pöttering replied as diplomatically as he could, and i thank him for defending the right of free speech of meps in debates taking place in this house. i also thank him for copying his reply to ms itzik to me. i have that letter here and i submit it to the secretariat so that there is evidence that what i am saying is true. furthermore, i have this message for ms itzik: in the european parliament, and in the eu in general, we have the right to express our opinions freely and democratically. perhaps you, ms itzik, should do the same in your parliament and in your country too. as regards the subject matter of this resolution, i wish to say the following. first, this is not a judicial civil matter, as some ill-informed or ill-informing members of this house might propose: it is clearly a political matter; it is a continuation of the policy of successive israeli governments to kick palestinians out of their homes and lands and to absorb by force – or by using legalistic tricks – as much of the occupied territories as possible into the state of israel. secondly, an attempt is made by the israeli mission to the eu, in a document sent selectively to some meps, to argue that property concerned belongs to israelis for historical reasons. it is claimed in that document that two jewish ngos bought the land on which the buildings in the contested neighbourhood are built during the rule by the ottoman empire. quite honestly, such a claim cannot be taken seriously and deserves no further consideration. in conclusion, let me reiterate my position so that there can be no mistake: i respect the right of the jewish people to have their own state, but the jewish government must respect the right of the palestinian people to have theirs.
mr president, on this point, although i strongly disagree with the oral amendments, i will nevertheless defend the right of meps to place oral amendments, even on a thursday afternoon, and i will condemn most strongly the groups – and my group is one of the first that i condemn – which do not manage to have their meps here on a thursday afternoon.
mr president, in order to have more support for this recital, i would like to propose an oral amendment to mr tannock’s oral amendment. it is just to add the word ‘apparent’ before ‘disputed’, so that it reads ‘on apparent disputed ownership’. then mr tannock will be satisfied that we have put the subject matter in the recital, and we will leave the matter open.
mr president, i am afraid that i would like to oppose the oral amendment by my learned friend, mr tannock, based on evidence that, in fact, has been supplied by mrs galit peleg, first secretary of the israeli mission to the eu. i have here an e-mail she has sent to many members, including, i suspect, mr tannock. the first line states: ‘during ottoman empire rule, two jewish ngos bought the land and built the buildings in the neighbourhood’, which means the whole area, thereafter – not just one house but all the buildings in the neighbourhood. i have it here, if anybody, including mr tannock, wants to have a look at it.
mr president, just very briefly, i would like to congratulate the ppe-de group because they manage to get the majority of their members in this house on a thursday afternoon and get what they want on breaches of human rights issues. i congratulate them.
mr president, if the debate today had had as its subject the situation in the gaza strip, i might have joined mrs de keyser and all the other colleagues across the floor in claiming the same positions. but i am afraid that this political linkage with the upgrading of the participation of one of the enp countries, and particularly the countries in the mediterranean, has created a precedent and i do not know where it will lead. we have not listed political conditionality among bilateral relations issues within the enp policies. in the case of morocco, for instance, we have never mentioned the western sahara or human rights. the same applies in the case of egypt or any country in the mediterranean. i cannot understand why this time we have chosen this political link. secondly, it is my view that the more you engage in dialogue, cooperation and trust – as mr jouyet has said – with any of the countries' partners, the more influence you have on them. we have shut a door today and i do not know how we are going to open it. thirdly, i am sure that in our proceedings today, we have set a condition. we have said that it is just a deferral and we are going to come back to it. how are we going to come back to it? when will the situation in the gaza strip be so satisfactory that we will decide to come back to it? as mrs napoletano has said on the issue of the settlements, as with so many other issues on which we want to have a positive influence on israel, when are we going to feel politically satisfied enough to bring back this fine resolution prepared in the committee on foreign affairs?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, many of us at last are beginning to realise that our planet is not indestructible and that it indeed has an expiry date which we humans, through our not so wise actions, are bringing drastically closer. there are of course still some doubting thomases, not least in our own house, but the number is fast getting smaller, as they overcome the limitations of self-imposed extreme dogmatism, or free themselves from third-party, sometimes suspect, manipulations. the eu should be, and is, at the forefront of the fight to save our environment, and the series of pieces of legislation aiming at combating climate change which are currently being debated in parliament are very welcome proof of this. but to be truly beneficial such legislatures must be substantive and be implemented effectively and in good time. as always, some compromises have to be made and this has been the case also with the corbey report on monitoring and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from fuels. it has to be said that the rapporteur has put up a very enviable and sustained fight to counteract the watering-down effects of the council positions and to a large extent, i believe she has been successful. for this achievement, i congratulate her. it has to be said also that during the hard negotiations the rapporteur kept all shadows regularly and fully informed and thus the resulting cooperation was such that it gave mrs corbey a strong hand at the negotiating table. the compromise package achieved deals, satisfactorily enough under the circumstances, on most controversial issues involved, such as biofuels, metallic additives and the sulphur content of some fuels, and my group fully supports it.
mr president, i much admire mr sacconi and usually agree with him, but not on this occasion. the target of 95 g/km in 12 years’ time is not an achievement, unfortunately. it is a major setback, and i wonder whether this legislation is about saving the environment or saving the car manufacturers. i have the impression that on this occasion the environmentalists, not excluding commissioner dimas, have put up a fight to save the environment but they have lost to the major car manufacturers. this is very sad because we had a chance to make a difference and we missed it.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, three main words. the first concerns the method, the procedure and codecision. i have heard, here and there, the idea that a first reading should not be a precedent. it is not the particular wish of any one. i believe that the particular circumstances of the moment, between copenhagen and the democratic breathing of parliament, gave us an imperative duty to conclude at first reading, where there would have been no agreement, what was possible. but i think that the thorough work on the commission proposal, which was extremely thorough, the work of the rapporteurs and committees, and the work of the council in the various energy and environment formations, meant that everything was coming together to reach an agreement. the trust agreement we signed three weeks ago, in the middle of the trilogues, somehow allows us to succeed. it is parliament which, as a last resort, and this is normal, proceeds to the decisive vote, which will take place tomorrow. secondly, the texts as a whole. i know that you can always, at some point, have an extraordinary religion of modality. the question is not how, but how we can be sure that we are giving ourselves the means to achieve our objectives. i take the example of co2 cars which has been the subject of the most definitive words. i do not share these final words because, in the field of car building, you know very well that it takes years to design and build cars, mr davies, you know that. and mrs harms supported the commission proposal which did not mention the 95 grams. the basic consensus reached in the trilogue is a slight relaxation of the short-term penalties or of the immediacy, over which there is little control over immediate production, in exchange for a major strategic act of 95 grams instead of 120 grams. then we can talk and see what we could have done more. i do not dispute this, but i do not think that the arrangements adopted for all six texts are withdrawal arrangements in relation to the commission. the commission has made complex proposals because the situation is complex, the situation of the member states is complex, the situation of our industries and our social climate is complex, but i believe that we have all the means to get to this first stage of the climate-energy package. and then the third word is for the external expression and, basically, the preparation of copenhagen. i say this in the most intimate way, because i was in poznań three days ago. we cannot have a great negotiation in copenhagen if we europeans are not 100% proud of our first step. if we are devaluing ourselves externally vis-à-vis our american, canadian, australian, chinese, russian and many other partners, if we are devaluing ourselves as a first essential step towards a break with the past, then we should not be surprised that the others do not take us seriously in the copenhagen negotiations, who, moreover, will not have the european court of justice at their side to ensure the proper implementation of the directives concerned. so, please, we have to have the internal debate, that's normal. of course, there are the votes, but, believe me, the whole industry got the message. the european citizens have got the message, whatever happens, and it is beyond us, and it is beyond our guidelines. it's just that now there's the rest of the world listening to us and not us devaluing this amazing work.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers in today’s discussion for their very constructive contributions and i urge you to support this compromise package before us today. by adopting this compromise agreement the european union will be demonstrating that with sufficient political will it is possible to adopt the concrete measures necessary to combat climate change and that it is possible to do so at reasonable cost. if 27 countries with very different social and economic realities can agree in a relatively short time on a very complex and far-reaching set of measures, why should it not be possible to come to a similar agreement internationally? during last week’s united nations conference in poznań it was clear that the world’s eyes were on europe and that our actions will have a decisive and positive influence on the international negotiations. i would like to make short comments on some points that have been much discussed tonight. firstly, on cars: through the compromise proposal our first achievement will be that we are going to have mandatory standards for european car manufacturers, which is very important, so this alone is a reason for voting for the proposal which is part of the package. it also contributed to achievement of the targets in the non-ets sector by about one third under the original proposal of the commission but will still contribute about one fourth under the proposal as it stands now, and if the long-term target of 95 g is taken into account we could again reach the one third that we originally aimed at. of course – as chris davies has said – it is in the interests of european car manufacturers to move fast towards the technological innovations to reduce the fuel consumption by cars because in this way they will take advantage sooner of the social shift towards cleaner cars and, by doing that, they will profit. and of course the consumers will pay smaller fuel bills and the environment will benefit from this production of cleaner cars. so even as it stands and being part of the whole package i think you should vote for it. secondly, auctioning: there is a lot of criticism as to why we should reduce auctioning. but still in the first and second trading period the maximum auctioning was 4%: 4% of the allowances were auctioned. now we are going to over 50%, even after the reduction. auctioning is very important, it is the best way of allocating allowances, it works according to the polluter pays principle, it does not permit the creation of windfall profits and it will generate funds which are needed in the fight against climate change and for other good causes. but still this incentive remains: we are going to have more than 50% and this percentage will increase year by year. if some of the countries that have an opt-out for the power sector do not use it – which is my opinion – when the time comes this percentage will go up even further. about the windfall profits which could occur because of free allocations, free allowances: member states who are very much concerned about it still have the possibility of taxing these windfall profits. thus there is a way of dealing with this if there is political will and you, the members of the european parliament, you also have a voice in your home country. with regard to the use of external credits in the non-ets sector, the effort-sharing sector, i was confused by some of the arguments that were made today. are we not in favour of the cdms? do we not support the flexible mechanisms of kyoto? are we going to be against them in the international agreement in copenhagen? do you think a very difficult agreement in copenhagen without these flexible mechanisms could be impossible? so what is your position? i do not understand it. are you against these flexible mechanisms, against making investments in developing countries, transferring technology there, and reducing emissions and of course getting the credit for them? of course we have to have a balance so as not to carry out most of them there. we have to carry them out here, in the european union, domestically, because it is better for our economies, it is better for adjusting to the low-carbon needs of the future and it will give our business and industry a first-mover advantage. it will be an incentive for developing new technologies, energy efficiency and promoting renewable sources of energy. so of course we have to keep the balance and i think that the balance has not been much disturbed by a 10% increase in the use of external credits in the non-ets sector, because this is what we are talking about. and again, in response to arguments from members of the european parliament from countries which have asked for this derogation, i say: okay, tell your countries not to use this derogation. it is up to you to influence public opinion and the governments in your countries not to use this additional 1%. i believe that in the end, because we have so many conditions for the additional 1%, most of it will not be used. i remind you that use of this additional 1% in cdm projects should be in the least-developed countries. if i remember well, at the united nations conference in poznań the main argument that we had with developing countries was that we do not carry out many projects in those countries. one of the issues that we discussed was how to distribute these projects better among the developing countries and especially the least developed countries. of course it is very important for the quality of the cdms to be high; we discussed this in united nations conference in poznań and we made some progress. i hope that by the time that we have the copenhagen conference we shall have finished the discussion regarding the improvement and the transparency of cdms and the additionality condition which is absolutely necessary. the last point i would like to make concerns the issue of whether the package is a threat, because i have heard some of our colleagues saying that this is a threat to their economies, especially, auctioning. but i remind you that the revenue that will be generated from auctioning remains with the member states; it does not go abroad, to other countries, it remains with the country, with its finance ministry, and it can be used for good causes and could even be used for social issues. if there is an electricity price increase, if there are energy poor, you can rebate part of the increase of the electricity price. consequently i do not understand the ‘threat’ caused by auctioning to the economies of those countries: the whole package is consistent with tackling the economic crisis. i do not have more time now to argue about this, but there was a big discussion on this and i am not going back. let me finish my intervention by expressing my sincere thanks to the european parliament, the presidency and the council for the excellent cooperation on the package and the related proposals on carbon dioxide and cars and the fuel quality directive. i particularly appreciate the constructive role this house, and especially the rapporteurs, have played in securing an agreement between the institutions on this crucial package. by adopting this package you will ensure that the european union has the concrete measures to deliver on its reduction commitments and will be reconfirming europe’s leadership on climate change at a crucial juncture for the international negotiations. the larger the majority in favour of these measures, the stronger the signal we will send to our international partners about our determination to address climate change, and the more effective it will be in convincing them to follow our example. i therefore strongly urge you to support the compromise package before us today.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am honoured to conclude this very constructive debate. it is a great achievement. who could believe that we could agree on such a demanding package of measures, with not only a consensus in the council but a first-reading agreement with parliament on very complex issues? it is a really great achievement. i would like to mention only that, in the course of the agreement, the commission has made a number of declarations. these have been handed over to parliament to be annexed to the minutes of our debate. together, we have achieved a great agreement and i am happy to commend it to you. i wish you success in tomorrow’s vote. commission statements on the climate and energy package emission trading – doyle report commission declaration ad article 10(3) of the revised ets directive between 2013 and 2016, member states may also use revenues generated from the auctioning of allowances to support the construction of highly efficient power plants, including new energy power plants that are ccs-ready. for new installations exceeding the degree of efficiency of a power plant according to annex 1 to the commission decision of 21 december 2006 (2007/74/ec) ‘energy penalty’ is the term used to express the fact that a plant applying co2 capture or mineralisation uses some of its energy for those processes, and so needs more energy than a plant of equivalent output without capture/mineralisation. the member states may support up to 15% of the total costs of the investment for a new installation that is ccs-ready. commission declaration ad article 10a(4a) on the modification of community guidelines on state aid for environmental protection member states may deem it necessary to compensate temporarily certain installations from co2 costs passed on in electricity prices if the co2 costs might otherwise expose them to the risk of carbon leakage. in the absence of an international agreement, the commission undertakes to modify after consulting member states the community guidelines on state aid for environmental protection by the end of 2010 to establish detailed provision under which member state may grant state aid for such support. the provisions will follow the principles as presented in the non-paper to the council on 19 november 2008 (annex 2 15713/1/08). carbon capture & storage – davies report statement by the commission on latest developments in deployment of ccs technologies from 2010 the commission will regularly report on latest developments in deployment of ccs technologies within its activities related to running the network of ccs demonstration projects. this reporting will include information on the progress on the ccs demo plants deployment, progress of ccs technologies development, cost estimates and the development of co2 transport and storage infrastructure. statement by the commission on draft permit decisions and on draft decisions of transfer pursuant to articles 10(1) and 18(2) of the directive the commission will publish all opinions on draft permit decisions pursuant to article 10(1) of the directive, and on draft decisions of transfer pursuant to article 18(2). the published version of the opinions will, however, display no information whose confidentiality is warranted under the exceptions to public access to information under regulations (ec) nos 1049/2001 and 1367/2006 concerning respectively public access to european parliament, council and commission documents (oj l 145, p. 43) and the application of the provisions of the aarhus convention on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters to community institutions and bodies (oj l 264, p. 13). statement by the commission on whether carbon dioxide should be a named substance with suitable thresholds in a revised seveso directive co2 is a common substance and currently not classified as dangerous. co2 transport and storage sites are therefore at the moment not included in council directive 96/82/ec of 9 december 1996 on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances (seveso directive). on the basis of the commission’s preliminary analysis of the available information, for co2 transport, both empirical and modelled evidence for pipeline transport would seem to indicate that the risks presented are no higher than for pipeline transport of natural gas. the same would seem to be true for ship transport of co2 as compared with ship transport of liquefied natural gas or liquefied petroleum gas. the indications are also that the accident hazard posed by a co2 storage site, whether from rupture at injection or from post-injection leakage, is unlikely to be significant. however, the case for considering co2 as a named substance under the seveso directive will be considered in more detail when developing the proposed revision of the directive, scheduled for late 2009/early 2010. should the assessment identify a relevant potential accident hazard, the commission will make proposals to include co2 as a named substance with suitable thresholds in the revised seveso directive. in that case, the commission would also propose changes to annex iii to directive 2004/35/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 21 april 2004 on environmental liability with regard to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage (environmental liability directive) as appropriate to ensure that all seveso installations handling supercritical co2 are covered under the environmental liability directive. statement by the commission on mineral sequestration of co2 mineral sequestration of co2 (the fixation of co2 in the form of inorganic carbonates) is a potential climate abatement technology which could in principle be used by the same categories of industrial installation as can use geological storage of co2. however, it is at present still in the development stage. in addition to the energy penalty‘energy penalty’ is the term used to express the fact that a plant applying co2 capture or mineralisation uses some of its energy for those processes, and so needs more energy than a plant of equivalent output without capture/mineralisation. associated with capturing co2, there is currently a substantial energy penalty associated with the mineral carbonation process itself, which will require to be addressed before commercial implementation can be envisaged. as with geological storage, the controls required to ensure the environmental safety of the technology would also have to be established. these controls are likely to be substantially different from those for geological storage, given the fundamental differences between the technologies. in the light of these considerations, the commission will follow closely the technical progress with mineral sequestration, with a view to developing an enabling legal framework to allow for environmentally-safe mineral sequestration and its recognition under the emissions trading system, when the technology has reached an appropriate state of development. given the interest in the technology among member states and the pace of technological change, a first assessment is likely to be appropriate towards 2014, or earlier if circumstances warrant. fuel quality directive – corbey report commission statement to accompany adoption of the new directive the commission confirms that the 2% reductions mentioned in article 7a(2)(b) and (c) are not binding and that the review will address their non-binding character. co2 & cars – sacconi report the commission confirms that in 2009 it intends to propose a revision of directive 1999/94/ec relating to the availability of consumer information on fuel economy and co2 emissions in respect of the marketing of new passenger cars. this is to ensure that consumers receive appropriate information about the co2 emissions of new passenger cars. the commission will by 2010 review directive 2007/46/ec so that the presence of innovative technologies (‘eco-innovations’) in a vehicle and their impact on the vehicle's specific emissions of co2 can be communicated to the member state authorities responsible for monitoring and reporting in accordance with the regulation. the commission will also consider preparing and implementing requirements for cars to be fitted with fuel economy meters as a means to encourage more fuel-efficient driving. in this context, the commission will consider modifying the framework type approval legislation and adopting the necessary technical standards by 2010. the commission is, however, committed to the aims of its better regulation initiative and the need for proposals to be underpinned by a comprehensive assessment of the impacts and benefits. in this regard and in accordance with the treaty establishing the european community, the commission will continue to evaluate the need to bring forward new legislative proposals but reserves its right to decide if and when it would be appropriate to present any such proposal. promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources – turmes report commission declaration relating to article 2(b) the commission is of the view that for the purposes of this directive, the term ‘industrial and municipal waste’ may include waste denominated as ‘commercial waste’. commission declaration relating to article 20(6)(d) the commission is of the view that the reference to the target of 20% in the last subparagraph of article 20(6)(d) will not be construed in a way different to article 3(1) of the directive. commission declaration relating to article 20(6)(d), (7) and (8) the commission acknowledges that some member states already in 2005 have achieved a high share of renewable energy at national level. when establishing the reports referred to in article 20(6)(d), (7) and (8), the commission will, as part of its assessment of the best cost-benefit basis, take due account of marginal costs of increasing the share of renewable energies and will include, as appropriate, adequate solutions also for such member states in any proposal put forward in accordance with the above mentioned article of the directive. commission declaration relating to annex viib the commission will seek to advance the development of the guidelines referred to in annex viib of the directive by 2011 and will cooperate with member states to develop the data and the methodologies needed to estimate and monitor the contribution of heat pumps to the fulfilment of the objectives of the directive. the guidelines will provide for corrections to seasonal performance factor (spf) values used to assess the inclusion of heat pumps not driven by electricity to take account of the fact that the primary energy needs of such heat pumps are not affected by the efficiency of the power system. in preparing these guidelines the commission will also evaluate the feasibility of providing for a methodology under which the spf value used to assess the inclusion of any given heat pump is based on average eu climate conditions.
mr president, on a point of order, many times we complain of the inadequate attendance of the council and the commission in our plenary debates. tonight, unfortunately, although we have two commissioners and one minister, we only have about five members in this plenary. i think it is sad and i think we owe the commissioners and the minister an apology.
mr president, it is amazing that it has taken so long to attempt to pass legislation to give the arm of traffic law the potential to cross eu member state borders in order to save lives. it is even more amazing that the council is hindering this from happening. it is also amazing that we set maximum speed limits for our cars, and then we produce vehicles that can travel twice or three times the maximum limits. it is also amazing that we have legal alcohol limits for drivers, and yet we bombard our citizens – especially in the festive season – with alcohol advertisements. and we especially associate alcohol intake with sex appeal and manhood, in some cases. commissioner, please do not give up your fight. please, fight with us against the council, which is absent today, in order to save lives and make our roads a safer place to be.
mr president, the draft budget for 2009 is proof that the conservative political priorities set by the european union do not respond to the needs of the peoples of europe. in a period of severe economic crisis and rising unemployment, payments are not even 50% of the commitments for the european union funds. the development sector is not only not being used as a tool to tackle problems, but in some cases the funds are operating in conditions like before the crisis. in contrast to the security sector, the budget for frontex, whose content of action based on independent studies violates individual rights and freedoms under the treaty, is not being cut. in the field of research, space research is subsidized, with the aim of worldwide monitoring, while actions relating to social inclusion, social exclusion and youth are overwhelmingly unsubsidized. in agriculture, the 2009 budget follows the agreed budgetary framework, which is characterised by cuts in expenditure. for rural development, payments in 2009 will be equal to or less than the commitments in 2007, at the same time as small and medium-sized farms are shrinking. this is contrary to the very title of the budget, which is the conservation of natural resources.
in writing. the european parliament and the council, in an effort to improve and extend the operation of the greenhouse gas emissions trading system and to achieve the eu's 20% emissions reduction targets by 2020, propose an amendment to directive 2003/87/ec. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. although we voted in favour of these amendments, which set higher targets for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions (a measure which was also a key objective of our gue/ngl group), we would like to express our opposition to the philosophy of commercialising greenhouse gas emission allowances. the directive in question, we dare say, achieves only a minimal reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and is a measure that favours the developed countries at the expense of the least developed and developing countries. finally, the application of some of the proposed flexible mechanisms helps monopolies (which are also the main culprits of climate change) to increase their profitability rather than radically solve the problem.
in writing. the common position reached by the council of ministers for employment and social affairs on 9 june 2008 is part of the permanent objective of the neoliberal forces that dominate the eu today, to deregulate labour relations and undermine the role of trade unions and workers' rights. the self-exclusion clause encourages employers to abolish fixed and regulated working hours, while the annual calculation of working hours adds an additional blow to job security. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i have therefore supported the positions and amendments put forward by the gue/ngl for a total rejection of the council's common position and the abolition of the self-exclusion clause, as well as the amendments tabled concerning the abolition of the extension of the reference time and the division of the reporting time into active and inactive.
madam president, i wish to raise an issue which seems to be taboo in the eu institutions, and that is the issue of colonisation. i am talking about colonies held by eu member states, for example britain and france, which between them have dozens of colonies around the world, two of them in my own country, cyprus, yet these people have no democratic rights to elect a government to govern them. most of them are governed by governors appointed, for example, by the queen of england. every time i ask mrs ferrero-waldner or anybody else in the commission, they close their eyes, they close their mouths and their ears and give no proper answer. madam commissioner, i challenge you to answer here today: do you approve of eu member states having colonies in the world in the 21st century?
mr president, homosexual rights are an important topic in the eu and from time to time form the basis of intense debate. recently, the subject of the right of homosexual couples to adopt children has surfaced again. in this connection, i wish to take the opportunity to ask the commission and the council a very straight question: do they agree with – and would they support – a move to allow homosexual couples to have the right to adopt children in the same way as heterosexual couples, or would they consider that the right of an adopted child to be placed in a heterosexual family environment is of paramount importance and, therefore, that adoptions by homosexual couples should not be considered desirable and should not be allowed by law in the eu? a courageously straight answer from the commissioner and the minister is expected and will be much appreciated and very helpful to us.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, mr jacques, ladies and gentlemen, this is another privileged opportunity to speak to your assembly and i would like to thank you, on behalf of the presidency, for the progress made in the field of justice. after the previous debate, which concerned the life of businesses, the reports to be discussed now concern the daily lives of european citizens. these are subjects which have been raised on numerous occasions during the french presidency, in particular at the symposia on the circulation of authentic instruments and the legal protection of adults. as you know, the french presidency has endeavoured to advance the europe of justice through concrete projects, in order to bring the european institutions closer to our fellow citizens, and - as diana said earlier - the slovenian presidency had also done a great deal in this respect and we have continued its work. the three texts on our agenda this morning bear witness to this: the medina report on the european authentic instrument, the wallis report on e-justice and the lópez-istúriz white report on the legal protection of adults. they reflect the presidency's concern to promote new initiatives not only to promote the adoption of new tools but also to exchange our methods, compare our practices and look to the future. as regards the report on authentic instruments, the presidency first of all welcomes the initiative taken by mr medina and the quality of his report. the interest of your parliament in the recognition and circulation of authentic instruments in europe shows that this is an important subject in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters. this work is part of our desire to make life easier for our citizens and our businesses, and the law is first and foremost made to pacify social relations, the referral to the judge being the exception. it is also important that the european union should take this step, and the authentic instrument is very much present in the lives of families and businesses, whether it is a marriage contract, a donation, a will, a deed of sale or a contract between companies. it allows persons in a non-conflict relationship to entrust a recognised authority with the task of certifying commitments which they wish to make and to settle all the consequences in advance by giving the act enforceable force. but your work also shows that we must now ask ourselves what conditions must be met for an authentic instrument to be able to circulate freely in europe, in whatever field. this will undoubtedly have to be taken into account in the future legislative programme of the european commission. the debate on authentic instruments will not prevent us from thinking later on about improving the circulation of other types of instruments. progress must be made gradually, but it will also require a very clear framework. the conditions and procedures for the mutual recognition of authentic instruments can be lightened because they offer enhanced guarantees. if we want to bring into the system acts which offer unequal guarantees, our ambition will have to be revised downwards, which would obviously be problematic. the european parliament's view as expressed in this report is broadly in line with the guidelines developed and proposed by the presidency. your report, mr medina, will provide an essential working basis for future work, as the presidency will take note of today's debate. improving and strengthening the european judicial area also means improving and modernising the functioning of the judiciary. this is achieved by using new means of communication; that's the whole point of the e-justice project. the aim of this project is to develop the use of new technologies, information and communication in a european crossborder context. this should enable us to strengthen the links between our judicial systems and facilitate exchanges. the framework decision on the interconnection of criminal records is a major factor in this. the action plan on european e-justice, which was submitted to the last jha council on 28 november, is in line with the work carried out by successive presidencies since the german presidency. during the last six months we have been working on a draft european e-justice action plan that is as balanced as possible, taking into account the member states involved in the project, the position of your parliament and the role that the commission will have to play. the objectives are shared by parliament and the presidency would like to thank the rapporteur, diana wallis, once again for her commitment to this issue and for her quality report. the intensive deliberations in the european parliament enriched the presidency's project and finally resulted in a project which was fully shared. facilitating access and ensuring the free movement of persons or judicial decisions, these objectives can only be fully achieved if they take into account the most vulnerable. this is one of the reasons why the french presidency wanted to improve the situation of adults who are subject to legal protection measures. the protection of the elderly must be guaranteed by the same freedom of movement as other citizens, irrespective of the protection they enjoy. the presidency welcomes the fact that this issue has found an echo in parliament and thanks its rapporteur, mr lópez-istúriz white, for his proposals on the legal protection of adults. it's a clear sign of our mutual interest. the hague convention of 13 january 2000 will enter into force on 1 january between france, germany and the united kingdom. in the last six months, other eu member states have signed it: finland, greece, ireland, luxembourg and poland. it is important that all states should be able to participate in this instrument. i know that the future czech and swedish presidencies will be committed to this area - they have also indicated this to us during the french presidency - and, more broadly, the circulation of judicial decisions taken in the field of the protection of adults must be one of our objectives. this is the condition for giving the impression of a europe that is able to respond to the needs of its citizens, including the most vulnerable. your report makes an important contribution. the french presidency would like to see this issue included in the commission's future legislative programme, mr jacques. it's a major societal issue. i know that this has been a priority and is essential for the commission and for you in particular, jacques. it is also proof that europe, by creating a safer legal environment, is also protecting the most vulnerable among them. the presidency thanks you for your contributions and i shall of course take note of all the comments that will be made during this debate.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be able to congratulate the authors of these three reports, and i would say to mrs dati that they are indeed in line with the efforts of the french presidency, which of course have attracted our full attention. i believe that these are the first steps towards the european judicial and legal area, which i am personally very attached to and which we will build together, particularly through the stockholm programme. so it is true that this debate this morning is quite timely. mrs dati has already given a very good account of the three reports, but i will nevertheless repeat briefly what she said to confirm the commission's intentions. first of all, let me thank you, mr. medina. mr medina ortega has given us an excellent report on the authentic european act. it is certainly a matter of the daily lives of consumers and citizens, and the recommendations you are making to the commission are really about the daily lives of citizens, both individuals and businesses. in fact, individual citizens and companies often intend to decide in family matters or commercial transactions simply by means of a free agreement with authentication by a public authority, and it is quite obvious that in this free circulation space, authentic documents must also be able to circulate. the free movement of goods has only been partially achieved today and, as you know, we have of course planned new measures alongside the existing instruments. i am working on it: there are those that have just been adopted - and thank you, rachida, for the maintenance obligations - and i am also preparing, mr medina ortega, the measure for march 2009 on succession. but i am well aware that the work is even wider, and that is why the commission is going to prepare a green paper on the authentic instrument and possibly on other public documents to really have the chance of a wide consultation on this subject. but, of course, in this context your report and the study prepared by the european parliament will be of great use, and, as you have stressed, there must also be, in my view - i agree with you - a legal basis for taking an initiative, while being aware that the diversity of legal systems will still require a thorough study in order to take this initiative. but, thank you again for this excellent work. i now turn to mrs wallis, who has stressed the need to modernise the functioning of the judiciary, and it is true that the action plan which has just been adopted under the french presidency is of the greatest interest to the czech presidency. so we're going to be able, ms. wallis, echoing your report, to see how we can make full use of this online access to justice. you mentioned cases where this would be of great help in settling small disputes, for example. the recommendations you make will certainly help us to strengthen the action already taken by the commission and will enrich the discussions and decisions taken by the european council. we will work together to ensure that european e-justice provides easier access to information on european legislation, national legal systems and european procedures. i also wanted to clarify that the planned portal will be implemented by the end of december 2009 at the latest. we will of course work on this in close coordination with parliament. this european e-justice portal must therefore be fully operational by the end of december 2009. it is addressed to the public, but we will also see how to resolve issues that concern the judicial authorities more directly. i am very pleased to see once again that there is this synergy between our european institutions, the council, parliament and the commission. i believe, mrs wallis, that in accordance with your wish that we should 'be careful, do not reduce ambition, have ambition for e-justice', the french presidency and rachida dati have shown that ambition. i can assure you that the commissioner i am will be very much committed to this. finally, i come to the report by mr lópez-istúriz white, and i thank him very much for echoing the excellent initiative taken by rachida dati in having us work, particularly in lille, on this very important subject in our societies. we know that our societies will increasingly include people over 65 years of age - already 16% of the total european population - and we are convinced of the importance of the issue of protecting vulnerable adults, which is why we strongly supported the french initiative by inviting the member states to ratify the hague convention of 13 january 2000. thanks to rachida dati's persistence, the convention will be able to enter into force on 1 january 2009. the minister has listed a number of countries which are now members of the convention, which i believe will once again help to create a snowball effect and enable us to convince all the member states to ratify the convention. it is true that at community level there are no existing instruments. we have not yet discussed the development of an existing instrument. we will be monitoring very closely the implementation of this convention and then, of course, we will include this proposal in the stockholm programme. we shall examine all the measures which could improve cooperation between the member states and then we shall be able to consider the possibility of a community initiative in this field. i can say this on this subject, which i personally consider very important. in any case, thank you, this morning's debate in the presence of rachida dati already shows us how we are going to try to propose an ambitious stockholm programme, commensurate with the expectations of the citizens who want this european judicial area. thank you to parliament.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has adopted an opinion on the proposal. - the mr president, first of all let me congratulate the french presidency on what it has achieved so far, particularly in the field of justice. i would also like to congratulate the commissioner. the committee on civil liberties endorses the views of the rapporteur, mr antonio lópez-istúriz white, as expressed in his report. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the euro, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take part in the debate on the future of the euro. in the case of the elderly, the european union has a responsibility to protect their dignity and property. i call on the commission to help and to press the member states to sign and ratify the hague convention, which provides a framework for such protection. i call on all colleagues to work in their countries which have not done so to make this a reality.
author. − madam president, the political, economic and humanitarian situation in zimbabwe is going from bad to worse, with the threat of a generalised outbreak of cholera and other potential epidemics adding to the already dire conditions in which the zimbabwean people find themselves. it is now absolutely clear that mr mugabe cares very little about the well-being of his countrymen. he cares much more about living a life of personal luxury and extravagance. mr mugabe has proved beyond any reasonable doubt that he is totally unfit to govern his country in the modern world. he finds excuses for his political existence by pretending to fight the ghosts of the long bygone british colonial era. there is no way we europeans can convince mr mugabe to see reason. the only chance to force him to step down is a drastic change in the stance held by the african union. it is shameful that this organisation has not intervened in a much more decisive and resolute manner already. i believe that our efforts must be directed at the african union and the governments of the nations it consists of. we must make it absolutely clear to them that we hold them wholly responsible for the sorry state of affairs in zimbabwe and expect them, even at this very late stage, to take proper drastic action to get mr mugabe’s regime to step down and go home or face severe consequences, not excluding trial for crimes against humanity.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, zimbabwe is becoming a failed state. half of the population will survive under foreign sustenance or will face starvation. sanitation and unpolluted water are almost unavailable and, as a result, a devastating cholera epidemic is spreading within zimbabwe and the surrounding countries. all this is because mr mugabe and his cronies want to punish their own people because they voted for him to go. the south african mediation was unsuccessful and the african countries have so far been disappointing in taking resolute action. the above picture constitutes a grave humanitarian catastrophe, so, as a first step, mr mugabe should be referred to the international criminal court to be indicted for crimes against humanity and to have an international warrant issued for his arrest.
author. − madam president, freedom of expression, the independence of the judiciary and the preservation of the fundamental principles of democracy appear to be under threat in this latin american country. it is our task and duty, as eu parliamentarians, to stand by the rights of the nicaraguan people and to send a clear message to the government of nicaragua that we will not tolerate any breaches of such rights, but we will make sure that all necessary pressure is applied by the eu and the un to safeguard and ensure respect for the human rights of the citizens of nicaragua. i hope this message, embodied in this motion for a resolution, will be heard loud and clear by those concerned and the necessary action to remedy the situation will be taken urgently.
author. − madam president, russia is one of the eu’s most important trading partners. amongst other things, it is responsible for supplying eu member states with a large percentage of their energy needs. furthermore, today’s russia is not what that country was in the past. in this respect we are pleased, for we wholeheartedly wish russia to be a modern and democratic nation with which we can cooperate to further world peace and prosperity. unfortunately, our wishes – and now our trust-building – are being shaken by the violation of human rights and disrespect for the rule of law that is still taking place in russia, albeit at a much reduced rate. a good example is the totally unacceptable way that the whole affair concerning the brutal murder of anna politkovskaya in 2006 has been handled by the russian authorities. with this motion for a resolution, we call upon the russian government to do its utmost to ensure that the road to democratic reforms taken by russia, and its consequent cooperation with the eu, are not put in jeopardy by the human rights violations still occurring in that country.
