i want to talk about the hot topic of the large-scale, well-founded campaign against smoking and smokers in the european union. campaigning also on the basis of legislation approved by the european parliament. this is a campaign motivated by no doubt noble reasons, namely, the protection of the health of the citizens. but i think it brings with it indignities and discrimination against a large segment of the population who are even criminalized for their addiction to smoking. the heavy economic toll on the catering industry in states that have banned smoking in restaurants is also a factor to consider. i believe that the attention paid to smokers should be given to the tobacco industry in the same way. it is no secret that for decades, tobacco has been added to it, for example, nitrosamines, cancer-causing nitrogenous compounds that increase nicotine absorption. it is not the nicotine that is harmful to the person but these other additives. i therefore believe that tobacco production and the composition of tobacco products should not be left out of the regulatory picture.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that the rapporteur has done a great job in this case and has shown a considerable capacity for negotiation and compromise. in particular, reducing emissions in the automotive industry, while maintaining a realistic view of a sector which is one of the best in europe and is also one of the key employers, as i said before, providing more than two and a quarter million jobs and millions more in related sectors, was a really tough nut to crack, in my view. the result is, in my opinion, a solid and realistic document. importantly, it also supports efforts to simplify substantially the legislation affecting the automotive industry with the more than 200 standards that exist today. in this spirit, i have tried to support the report with my amendments as a shadow rapporteur. the main objective was to ensure that ambitious emission reduction plans did not undermine both the development of the industry in europe and our competitiveness with the world.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that when i read the community strategy on safety and health at work for the period 2007-2012, which was presented by the european commission last february, i was disappointed in many ways. although the commission has set a fairly ambitious target of reducing accidents at work by 25% in this strategy, it contains very few concrete initiatives and recommendations on how to achieve this target. moreover, it again focuses mainly on occupational accidents, which are, of course, only part of the health problems associated with work. occupational illness is a side issue, which i think is a step backwards. on the other hand, i should like to thank and congratulate mrs willmott on her report on this strategy. the report, unlike the commission document, contains many concrete proposals and recommendations for improving occupational safety and health. i am pleased that the rapporteur also stresses the need to correctly identify and quantify cancer as an occupational disease in order to set targets for reducing this serious disease. until now, only 5% of cases of cancer caused by work were classified as occupational. i very much welcomed the inclusion in the report of my amendment, which i tabled in the committee on employment, on the need to ensure free access to technical standards for the general public. this is a problem that workers in many member states still face and needs to be addressed.
i would like to begin by thanking mrs willmott for her very carefully prepared report. the commission's objective is to reduce the number of accidents at work by 25%. i don't think this is gonna work. there are insufficient labour inspectors and they have insufficient tools to remedy this. the influence of trade unions, which are no longer involved in many countries in investigating the causes and remediation of occupational accidents, is being steadily reduced. then there's the existing jungle of agency hiring, and then there's the pressure to constantly deepen what's called flexibility in the use of working hours, which leads to employees working long hours and increasing the risk of injury.
commissioner, there is no doubt that the technical amendments proposed in the annexes to this regulation need to be approved. this will bring the regulation into line with newer terminology in some countries. however, i would like to point out again that for several years now, european legislation has continued to contradict the rulings of the european court of justice as regards the specification of the rules for patients' claims for reimbursement of the costs of healthcare abroad. the disagreement concerns in particular hospital care in relation to all the judgments - i stress all the judgments - and not only those where the council has already reached a consensus. it is true that patients can exercise their rights if they go to the european court of justice, but this legal situation is unacceptable. i would point out again that the possibility of adjusting insured persons' claims accordingly was lost in the preparation of the new simplified council regulation 883 in 2004. the possibility of adapting the principles laid down by the european court of justice in the services directive two years later was also lost. and today, another year has come to a close, and we're making only technical changes, not conceptual ones. the new implementing regulation will hopefully solve this, but it seems that not everything will be solved, because the council has not agreed on everything. the situation may be further complicated by the fact that dg sanco is now proposing a new directive on patient mobility. as it faces controversial proceedings, including the subsidiarity dispute, we can also expect another delay in the establishment of citizens' rights to hospital care, the dispute being its amount and the conditionality of authorisation by the insurance company in the country of origin. i consider this situation to be very undesirable in terms of legal certainty, accessibility and clarity of law for citizens. some countries have done this by not informing their citizens about the challenges to the european court of justice's judgments. i believe that this problem needs to be addressed as quickly as possible in the 2004 amendment to implementing regulation 883 and not rely on the controversial new dg sanco mobility directive being drawn up to ensure compliance with the judgments without further delay.
the chairman of the committee on foreign affairs. − ladies and gentlemen, the creation of the fundamental rights agency at the beginning of last year is a very important and necessary step towards the protection and promotion of fundamental human rights within and outside the union. unfortunately, the multiannual framework has not yet been adopted and some staffing issues remain unresolved. the foreign affairs committee therefore calls for an urgent remedy to this situation. as regards the agency's activities outside the european union, the committee on foreign affairs supports the measures taken to avoid duplication of work and to ensure the necessary coordination of activities with the international organisations active in this field, i.e. in particular the council of europe, the united nations and also the osce. we also consider that the human rights dialogue is essential for the union's relations with third countries, and therefore welcome the fact that the agency is open to the participation of candidate countries. finally, thirdly, we believe that once the reform treaty enters into force and the function of high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy is established, the agency should fully assist him in his or her work.
drafting committee on women's rights and gender equality. - ladies and gentlemen, i appreciate the report by mrs pack and congratulate her on the way she has dealt with the subject. i would like to stress the need to pay attention to the education of women, the socially disadvantaged, immigrants and minorities. let me mention one more aspect of education. in a world where most things are dominated by finance, commerce, the promotion of goods, careers, and competition in labor markets, education is often seen as merely a ladder leading up to better social employment. if this is practical and results in a person being better equipped to do the job and keep up with the competition, that is fine. above all, education enriches the inner person and makes him better equipped to distinguish right from wrong. society is experiencing a crisis of values. instead of tradition and authority, we have individual freedom, which we have sought throughout modern history. but it's also the freedom to know as well as not to know, the freedom to see and the freedom to remain blind, the freedom to form your own opinion and the freedom to accept the opinions of others. education alone will not solve a person's problems, but it can help him at least to think about them.
mr president, mr commissioner, the biggest obstacles to adult participation in education are the lack of time for work or family reasons. another negative factor is lack of awareness and lack of motivation, as there is a prevailing belief that education in later life is not adequately valued and rewarded. the effectiveness and fairness of adult education play an important role. the education systems of the member states of the european union are mainly geared to the education and training of young people. only small progress has been made to change this situation significantly. the aim of the project is to develop a common approach to adult learning, based on the principles of the european commission's white paper on learning and learning in the 21st century. our task is to ensure access to good and timely information on adult education opportunities, taking into account the entry requirements for their education, the costs, but also the nature of the results of such education. i agree with the rapporteur that member states must put in place quality guidance systems, targeted financial incentives for individuals, and support the building of local partnerships. at the same time, it is necessary to establish a system for the recognition and verification of learning outcomes in the context of national qualifications and with regard to the european qualifications framework. the benefits of investing in adult learning are also confirmed by oecd research. public and private benefits include higher employability, increased labour productivity, lower expenditure on unemployment benefits, social benefits and early retirement. this report calls for us to translate the declared policy priorities in adult education into concrete action. congratulations to our reporter.
ladies and gentlemen, the central point of the strategy to combat unemployment is to equip workers with the skills to be more adaptable in the labour market through lifelong vocational training. the aim was to have at least 12% of the population participating in such programmes by 2010. we already know the target won't be met. however, i would like to point out that there are countries, such as the netherlands and austria, where the lisbon target has already been achieved, thanks to strong incentives such as the sharing of time and financial costs between employees, enterprises and the state. the danish experience is also valuable. the development of skills there has allowed for the rotation of workers. while the employee is in training, he is replaced by someone who is unemployed at the time. these and other countries are proof that it works, that labour market flexibility is the path to innovation that creates new jobs. the result is the lowest long-term unemployment, with denmark at just 0.8%. i want to believe that even in the new countries, the situation will change fundamentally thanks to the examples and the huge incentives that the european social fund provides. i welcome the commission communication and mrs pack's report.
mr president, i welcome the fact that we have given the green light to a modern framework for the further development of the automotive industry in europe and that we have voted for targets which are realistic, which take account of both the rise in oil prices and our high ambitions in terms of safety and environmental protection and are still bearable in terms of european competitiveness. increasing demands for ever safer car designs and powerful engines that will, however, emit a third less greenhouse gases, these are the goals that are increasing both the price and the operation today, and we know that they alone do not provide much incentive for the mainly middle and less well-off classes to change their fleet more often. eliminating old cars from european roads is therefore a crucial prerequisite for cars 21 to really show its strength. the key to this is changing consumer motivation. but taxes and fiscal policies are not the responsibility of the european union, so it will now be up to the member states to set the parameters and whether or when safer and greener cars will prevail over the old on our roads, and that will also determine the real effectiveness of cars 21.
mr. chairman, i just want to ask if this particular regime today is going to be repeated or if it was really just a shot of today. can you answer that?
ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the fact that the slovenian presidency wants to address the threats of climate change and a secure and sustainable energy policy. i think it's high time to take off the populist green glasses and get rid of the unfounded fear of nuclear reactors. we have a chance to finally stop draining the citizens of money through the immoral trading of emissions permits, which are nothing more than a pardon for the biggest polluters. we have a chance to get rid of the nonsensical taxes on fuel cells and pseudo-technology solutions whose costs far outweigh their benefits. ladies and gentlemen, according to the scientific evidence, nuclear energy is the one that produces no co2 and minimizes the worsening of climate change. it's also the cheapest low-carbon technology, it's reliable and it's safe. in addition, nuclear power reduces countries' dependence on fuel supplies from unstable territories. i am convinced that if we are to act in the interests of the citizens of the union and tackle climate change, we should invest in research, development and education in the field of nuclear energy.
i would like to emphasize that i voted for the report on consumer credit because i believe it is going in the right direction. i appreciate that we have tempered the regulatory enthusiasm of the commission and the council for more detailed legislation, which i think is undesirable. there are differences between member states arising from different legal traditions and funding cultures, and attempts to erase those differences by force would not, in my view, be successful. it is therefore good that the european parliament has concentrated on the essential elements: the principles of consumer credit harmonisation, of which i would like to single out the right of cancellation and the possibility of early repayment without financial damage to consumers. i consider that the two-week limitation period for unilateral termination of the contract is necessary for the legal certainty of all parties involved. it is also important that for tied loans this period can be reduced to 3 days at the consumer's request, which allows the consumer to take over the purchased product earlier. i think that a provision guaranteeing that early repayment of a loan cannot be detrimental to the consumer is more than enough. states will be obliged to transpose these provisions into national legislation so that the interests of consumers will be protected.
ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that we have entered europe today after six years of discussions on a common credit policy. it will increase consumer protection, including across borders, and may help to reduce unwanted household debt. the aid would be subject to a 14-day free withdrawal period and, in particular, to the obligation to provide the buyer with standardised information on all the costs of the loan in advance. the new thing is the right to early repayment. what divided us most was how to ensure that the banks didn't charge outrageous fees for this. the amount should now be limited to the actual cost, but i think it is right that the amount should also be limited in view of the residual value of the loan, as we voted today.
(the opening of the speech was not heard) in the introduction to this report on adult education clearly indicates the attention given to lifelong learning in all the institutions of the european union. but collecting documents, saying nice words, appealing and voting for, as i did, is not enough. let's motivate educational institutions to really engage in the process of lifelong learning. this process cannot be considered as an adjunct to classical schooling, but it should become part of education systems, and this requires major changes. this process therefore entails a significant financial burden in each country, which can be a limiting factor in the development of education. when considering where to direct funding in the changing funding of eu policies, this circle, and in particular universities as natural centres of learning, should not be forgotten.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that the change in the legal status of europol which is being discussed here is not a step in the right direction. europol is now functioning well and does not need any change in its statute. police activities are the domain of the nation states and therefore the national governments, controlled by national parliaments, are logically and correctly the main ones responsible for them. moreover, this approach is implicitly respected by schengen cooperation, in which the czech republic fully participated at the end of last year. at the level of the european union, police cooperation is therefore logically subject to an intergovernmental approach. the commission now wants to abandon this correct and logical approach and to create a de facto new agency from europol, subordinate to the european institutions. but the form of agencies is not suitable for europol and will not bring anything positive. europol's control is being passed on to national interior ministers, and that is not good for the fight against crime. i think that the proper and democratic ratification of the treaty of lisbon, which also concerns the legal basis of europol, should take place first, and only then can negotiations be started on any possible amendment of the legal basis of europol. that is why i shall vote against this report.
mr. chairman, let me ask you how a decent woman is supposed to draw attention to herself in this "catch the eye" method when she's sitting on the edge of the room. and i want to know if i've been put on the list or how the ladies are supposed to do things around here.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the commissioner very much for answering my question concerning the criminal liability of persons in georgia, a very sensitive issue which was also addressed in the pre-election debate in georgia. i would like to say that my introduction said that russia has imperial intentions. yes, it is possible. but i must say that the caucasus is not the alps or the pyrenees, the caucasus is only the caucasus. and we need to understand it in this geographical sense. i had a longer speech planned, but i'll summarize my election observation mission in georgia in seven points. firstly, like the vast majority of the people in the caucasus region, we in western, central and eastern europe want stability in this region. it is possible that this stability will be with the support of the united states or the european union. secondly, it is our duty as members of the european parliament to ask how the funds provided by the european union for the relevant programmes have been used, not for the elections for president saakashvili. third, it's very nice that the old president is calling for dialogue with russia, but the rule is, just like at the state ball, if you offer a lady a frame, it doesn't mean you're going to dance the way she wants you to dance. i mean, if president saakashvili is calling for dialogue with russia, it's imperative that the other side understand that it's a sincere invitation to dance. fourth, all states have an interest in the caucasus, including the united states of america and the european union. the european union is unfortunately very little to see in the caucasus. i admit, commissioner, that the european union's interest in this region, including poverty, is not clear, and in this sense it will probably be necessary to formulate our common european policy better, not only in words but also in deeds and in terms of finances.
ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, allow me to focus my brief remarks on just one aspect of today's topic, namely regional cooperation. if we look at both regions, the south caucasus and the black sea, we see that the states there tend to have poorly developed bilateral and multilateral relations with each other. as a rule, there is a lack of stronger political dialogue, the level of trade between them is very low, and modern and efficient transport and energy infrastructures are almost everywhere lacking. i therefore welcome the calls by both rapporteurs to strengthen this aspect, i.e. mutual regional cooperation, outside bilateral relations with the european union. strengthen regional cooperation in the fields of human and civil rights, democracy building and education. strengthen regional cooperation in the fields of transport, energy and environment. strengthen regional cooperation in trade, tourism and investment. in other words, to gradually, step by step, create a solid framework of interpersonal, cultural, economic and political relations between the peoples and states of the south caucasus and the black sea area. and if this succeeds, i am convinced that even in this geographical area there will be a gradual resolution and resolution of the persistent conflicts and the creation of a zone of stability, democracy and prosperity.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague from the committee, ilda figueiredo, has done an excellent job as always. it documents facts that i consider to be essential. in particular, the fact that there is a dominant proportion of women employed in the manufacturing industry, in which low-skilled, manual and low-paid work predominates. the stereotype that women are meant to do auxiliary work is well illustrated here. for example, i had the opportunity to visit several food processing plants in different countries. despite the geographical differences, these operations are similar. men hold leadership positions, and women do the unskilled work on the treadmills. they earn little, work mechanically at a dull pace, without motivation for career advancement, and in unfavorable conditions. that's wrong. so we have a lot of work to do to eliminate gender inequality. we must be aware that this area is still not sufficiently covered by statistics and that the gender perspective is a relatively new phenomenon in statistics. so in fact, the disadvantage of women in industry will be even more pronounced than that of men. however, the focus should be on what the rapporteur rightly calls priorities, namely the disadvantage in the remuneration of women and the fact that there are few women in technical fields, which, unlike a significant part of manufacturing industry, are more technologically demanding and better paid. this is linked to the need to facilitate women's access to higher education and vocational qualifications. just as it is essential to ensure that women are able to return from maternity leave to the work process, but also to further study. this right also applies to men who care for children. some regions of the european union, particularly in the east, are undergoing changes in the structure of their industries. these require increased labour mobility and retraining. i know these movements from my own experience, as i myself come from an industrial area of the czech republic that has undergone restructuring, and i know its effects, especially on women in employment. another related problem is the relocation of factories to countries outside the european union where labour is cheaper. the flow of cheap goods from asian countries and other countries that produce a lot of consumer goods for foreign markets without satisfying their own market, which lacks purchasing power, also threatens women's employment. all these factors affect women's employment in industry very significantly and their negative consequences need to be gradually corrected.
mr president, allow me to explain why i abstained on this report. firstly, i think that europol works well on the basis of bilateral agreements and bilateral cooperation. secondly, as the czech republic, we have joined the schengen area with other countries and we need to get used to this cooperation, analyse it and then improve it. in addition, for any further integration step towards transforming europol into a european police office, we need the ratification of the treaty of lisbon. only then can we discuss any possible changes to the legal basis of europol.
in writing. − i fully endorse our resolution on the situation in kenya, which is based on the current inquiry by the eu observer mission in kenya at the beginning of the year. we must urge the kenyan authorities to investigate the circumstances of the elections without delay and prevent further violence, and we must insist on the resumption of live broadcasting and on the respect of fundamental human rights and the rights enshrined in the african charter. but this resolution does not relieve the european commission of its responsibility to resolve the issue of the transfer of those 40 million euros to the congolese government, and so i believe we will return to the issue shortly.
in writing. − i agree with many of the ideas in the report on women in industry, but i am concerned that there was no specific attention to regional unemployment of women who lost their jobs in european textiles when it was relevant. i also think that no quotas for women on the boards of the workforce will solve the situation. my second point is about balancing work and family. this applies to both women and men and i think the solution is not in resolutions, but in implementing the european concept of flexicurity. the netherlands is an example, which has created an excellent legal framework for shorter-term employment and has reduced both unemployment and saved time for both men and women for family life. the effective use of shorter working hours also shows that it does not necessarily lead to a reduction in income.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. no one in the european union and in this parliament doubts that egypt is not only a key partner of the european union, but a dynamic, ready and strong partner, and that is why we consider dialogue with this country to be very important and significant. new negotiations on an action plan between the european union and the arab republic of egypt will begin next week. it is good that our parliament is unanimously and clearly expressing its support for these negotiations and is becoming a player in foreign policy. we are clear: the european union cannot be a partner of a state that allows the harsh intervention in the independence of the ancient democratic institution of the judiciary, that allows the torture in prisons, the killing of immigrants, that suppresses freedom of speech, blocks the internet and sends members of parliament, like president sadat's nephew, to court-martial. egypt is our key ally in the fight against terrorism, and therefore it must be a key ally in combating the root causes of terrorism and the radicalization of islam. and that is why they must not go against the registration of ngos in this way, they must not destroy freedom of expression and above all they must defend the ancient rule of law that has always existed in egypt. we believe that egypt can do this and we believe that our resolution will help the european commission to ensure that the action plan agreed with egypt is of high quality. thank you for your support.
ladies and gentlemen, i fear that reducing one fifth of europe's co2 output in 12 years is an unrealistic dream. we have not reduced it by even 5% since the kyoto agreement in 1990. let's take off our populist glasses and face the fact that scientists are describing and that citizens are starting to feel. biofuels do not solve the energy crisis, but they do cause food price increases, water supply problems, and the much-hated increase in co2 concentrations due to deforestation. they're just a step in the wrong direction. ladies and gentlemen, i believe we should focus on nuclear power and get rid of the fear of nuclear reactors. reasonable governments like finland or britain are already doing that. scientific evidence shows that nuclear power produces no co2 and minimizes the worsening of climate change. it is also cheap, reliable, safe and reduces countries' dependence on fuel supplies from unstable territories. if we want to act in the interests of the citizens of the european union, we should invest in nuclear research, development and education.
ladies and gentlemen, let me address two aspects of our relationship with iran in my speech today. the first is civil society. as i was able to witness with my own eyes and ears during my recent visit to tehran, there is a very strong and active civil society in iran. women, journalists, ethnic and religious minorities are standing up for their rights. the student scene is very much alive. bus drivers, bakers, and many other professions organize their own independent unions. economists and businessmen are pushing for the privatization and liberalization of iran's economy. all these groups and sectors of iranian society are looking to europe, to the european union, for dialogue and for help. i would therefore urge the commission and the high representative javier solana to make effective use of the new instrument for democracy and human rights that we have at our disposal for this dialogue with iranian society. in my view, a european union diplomatic mission should also be established in iran. this would not only encourage discussion and dialogue with civil society, but also cooperation with local institutions and bodies in areas of common interest. and the common interests, despite our differences on nuclear or human rights, are many. i'll just mention one of iran's neighbors, and that's afghanistan. i am convinced that it is not in our interest, or in the interest of iran, that tons of illegal narcotics flow from afghanistan to europe, for example. we also have common interests in the issue of afghan refugees and, ultimately, in the overall peaceful settlement of the situation in afghanistan. for this and many other reasons, the european union needs its own diplomatic representation in tehran.
i would like to remind you that iran's nuclear program, paradoxically, started at a time when iran was an ally of the united states. the shah was advised by the americans to build 20 nuclear power plants. times seem to have changed, from ally to enemy, and the image of iran is contradictory. on the one hand i know about the suffering of our friends from tudeh, on the other hand it must be said that in no arab country is there such a degree of plurality and developed civil society as in iran. the trade union scene mentioned by mr roucek here certainly deserves attention, as does the women's movement, and i believe that mr roucek's proposals to establish a european union representation in tehran deserve attention and support. we really need to develop those relationships. it's a great nation, a great culture, and it's definitely much closer to us than we can imagine.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i appreciate that the issue of the deployment of us missile defence elements in the czech republic and poland, i.e. in the european union, is being brought to the attention of the european parliament, the most democratic institution, because it is directly elected citizens of the union who are affected by this issue. in this connection, i would like to emphasize that i am relying on the opinions of my colleagues in the gue/ngl group and on my own experience as a military expert, but above all on the majority opinion of the citizens of my country, where 70% of the population are against the installation of the american radar system. the american missile defense is presented to us as a defensive shield. so why, for example, was the czech republic not allowed to sell the tamara passive radar system without the powerful weapons to china? the reasoning is that china would gain an inadequate advantage in relation to other countries. isn't that a manipulation of concepts? isn't the real reason for installing the radar in the czech republic also to gain an advantage? even the layman understands what warriors knew long before hannibal, that the shield in the hand of a warrior is a means to a better and more effective use of his sword. security enhancements are being declared. but isn't it actually about increasing security risks? because we're gonna be the number one target for potential adversaries. we're told to accommodate the u.s. to confirm that we're good allies. canada has also failed to comply and is a bad ally of the us? has it learned nothing from the purposeful justification of military action in iraq? if the us has unilaterally terminated the abm treaty and is taking steps to gain an advantage, then this reaction does not seem illogical to me. was the united states pleased years ago with the near presence of soviet missiles in cuba? the united states is certainly a great power and its views, proposals and demands cannot be simply thrown off the table. but if we are really concerned about greater security, particularly for europe, the path leads in a more complex direction of negotiation and agreement, rather than unilateral steps. this is the responsibility not only of the big players in the us and russia, but also of us in the european union.
the proliferation of medium and medium-range carriers at the turn of the 21st century is enormous. unfortunately, without an international security regime in place, we have no choice but to stop it with effective defense. effective defence is a sovereign right of the member states of the union. the sofa negotiations currently taking place in prague are a legitimate right of the czech republic. since the radar stationed on the territory of the czech republic will provide security for many european countries and it will be the first time that the czech republic, after years of being an occupied state, will be able to actively contribute to european security, the czech government must act with particular responsibility. missile defence must be credible, defensive and must respect the indivisibility of security. therefore, we welcome the information about the bucharest summit which should decide on the construction of a complementary ltbmd system. the transfer of negotiations to nato is a guarantee of the fulfilment of the indivisibility. to clarify that this is a purely defensive system, is the subject of us-polish-czech-russian negotiations. there remains the third point, efficiency. even with what we know about the november iranian tests, we have to say, "let's take a shared responsibility. let's not destroy the effectiveness of common defense by arguing with each other about whether we should defend ourselves at all.
let me use this one-minute speech to call on the council of the european union and the high representative for the common foreign and security policy to discuss the issue of us missile defence at european level. the deployment of us missile defence elements in europe is a pan-european issue. it's not just a czech, polish or american matter. the relations at stake are those within the european union, the eu-nato relations, the europe-united states relationship, the europe-russia relationship. please place this matter on the council's agenda. as regards the czech republic, i would like to make one point. seventy percent of the citizens of the czech republic are against this system. three-quarters of the citizens of the czech republic demand a referendum on this system. the czech government doesn't communicate with the public, the czech government doesn't inform the members of the czech parliament, the czech government does everything behind the backs of the czech citizens. this too must be known and pointed out in the council of the european union.
let me thank the council, represented by the slovenian presidency, and the commission, represented by mrs ferrero-waldner, for adhering quite strictly to the wording of the european treaties, which states that this is a matter entirely within the jurisdiction of the national states. and let me remind you that the new lisbon treaty also explicitly states that national security matters are the sole jurisdiction of the individual member states of the european union. i am convinced that european security is inextricably linked to the security of the whole euro-atlantic area and, in a situation where the european union is neither financially nor technologically capable of ensuring the security of its members against new risks, this link is all the more urgent. as regards the will of the people, which has been mentioned here several times, i can only point out that those who call for a referendum on the basis of opinion polls are often the same people who rejected a referendum on another very important issue, namely the question of the new european treaties.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to summarize all the arguments. in essence, it is not only about increasing the security of the czech republic, poland, but also of europe as a whole. negotiating the location of such a facility falls within the competence of the national state as such. similar facilities exist in other countries, in the member states of the european union. the speakers here today have made it clear that there is a real danger. let us remember that decisions on security must be made very quickly. and this decision has a preventive meaning. only by being prepared and strong can we force the aggressors to act and to respect the security conditions. and in conclusion, i would like to say that i absolutely reject the fact that the czech government has not communicated about this facility to the citizens, and that there is currently an information campaign that has been going on for several months.
i would like to make four points on this subject. first, there is the founding act between nato and the russian federation of may 1997. in this act, both parties committed themselves to jointly eliminate the use of force and even the threat of force on the european continent. if this act is valid, it effectively rules out the possibility of the situation we're talking about on our continent. the second point concerns the helsinki process. in helsinki, the signatories of the then treaty, the then declaration, committed themselves to reducing the presence of weapons systems on the european continent. this trend would be reversed. and i believe that the reduction of weapons systems on the european continent should continue. the third point concerns the number of bases. we have american bases in 18 countries in europe. now with the new bases, there'd be 20. we would confirm what zbigniew brzeziński said about the european union, that it is essentially an american protectorate. and the fourth point is about the meaning of the whole system. i think that's clear. it's about intelligence coverage and intelligence control of the entire european continent.
madam president, in the debate over so-called climate change, we take for granted a few disputable prerequisites. firstly, climate changes are real and dominantly caused by people. secondly, conclusions made by the ipcc panel are the only valid results. there are no other groups of scientists with different opinions on global climate change. thirdly, people are generally willing to discount their future and sacrifice current living standards. fourthly, european businesses and enterprises will survive in global competition, even with higher prices. fifthly, we will manage to persuade the rest of the world to follow our obligations. as i listen to the debate, i realise that i am in a minority in this house, but let me stress my position. firstly, the outcomes of the ipcc panel are exaggerated. there are other groups of scientists who offer different positions on climate change and its causes. secondly, there is no evidence that mankind is dominantly causing climate changes. thirdly, climate change has become a fashionable political tool for manipulating people. fourthly, the conference in bali proved that there is no widespread support for excessive and extremely expensive measures for handling climate change. fifthly, european producers will have to incorporate political decisions into prices, which will subsequently result in higher prices and further loss of european competitiveness at global level. sixthly, ambitious plans for the reduction of greenhouse gases will harm developing countries, which will lead to deeper differences between the rich and the poor. so what should be done? we had better reduce the legendary european red tape, limit the production of legislation at a supranational level and let people work and invent.
as early as 2000, the european council expressed the wish to make the european union the most dynamic and competitive part of the world within ten years. since then, it has been repeatedly stated that we are not doing well. nothing substantial has happened with patent legislation and our entire innovation environment is suffering from low momentum. the proposed modification of the lisbon strategy does not introduce anything fundamentally new. he's just setting a little more modest goals. all the more reason to pursue goals that are more attainable. i think that these include simplifying legislation and removing unnecessary regulations in all areas where possible. the promising way forward is to curb the european legislative rush. it would certainly be helpful if we introduced the principle of discontinuity into the work of the european parliament. it would be really good if the unrevised legislative proposals were dropped after the end of the term.
ladies and gentlemen, let me now turn to a subject that is very important for maintaining regional diversity and protecting traditional products: czech beer. the name 'české pivo' was published in the official journal of the european union in mid-january this year with a proposal for registration of a protected geographical indication. czech beer is unique not only in the eyes of its consumers, but also in the eyes of brewing experts and commission officials. the historical development of czech brewing, the varieties of barley and hops used, the methods of working with malts have made the taste of czech beer different from european beers such as heineken or stella artois. the czech republic has been seeking the possibility of registration for over three years. the publication in the official journal brought this long and difficult negotiation to an end. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the european commission officials and czech experts for their responsible approach to this issue and i believe that nothing will now prevent czech beer from becoming part of europe's cultural heritage.
ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that we have not made significant progress in the area of freedom, security and justice. on the contrary, we are moving away from freedom by not negotiating the lisbon reform treaty with governments and citizens in referendums. why can't citizens decide freely whether they want their country's share of the eu's decision-making to be reduced? why can't citizens freely decide whether they want to strip their governments of their veto power on migration, energy, transportation, and even the control of the european central bank? why can't the citizens of the smaller member states in particular know that they are being prevented from becoming the rotating president of the european council? and was anyone told that in six years their country would lose its automatic right to its seat in the european commission? the lisbon reform treaty is a fundamental change to the founding documents of the european union. if it passes only through parliamentary channels without referendums and national debates, we cannot speak of freedom, but of the boundless arrogance of the current bosses. the european commission should remind governments of this.
mr president, today, after years of discussion, we have reached an agreement to open up the postal services to all citizens of the european union. this is an important milestone on the way to a single market for postal services without jeopardising public services. i'm very glad we found a reasonable compromise that protects, for example, the delivery of shipments in remote areas. the directive also does not prevent member states from maintaining certain exceptions, such as free delivery of parcels to the visually impaired, even though parliament rejected a specific article today. the digitalisation of communications has a major impact on the changing structure of demand for postal services, and thus liberalisation will allow for a better and, most importantly, more flexible response to a wider range of services, in particular as regards parcels. and i believe that will lead to lower prices for more efficient services, and i congratulate us on this compromise.
mr. chairman, i believe that humanity has an effective role to play in reducing its negative impact on the climate of this planet. the eu and the world need to be involved in this process of climate change mitigation. we must therefore also look for more effective instruments in our development policy and target aid to developing countries so that they too can adapt effectively to the impact of climate change and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. it is one of the other important tasks that we have to face and that our resolution on the bali conference today has highlighted.
mr president, i welcome the report on the action plan for energy efficiency. it is a call for financial support to accelerate the introduction of cutting-edge technologies that are environmentally friendly. it will also ensure less dependence on energy supplies from the east. however, the emissions trading system is controversial. it could serve its purpose if the individual countries of the union had the same starting conditions. special conditions must apply to emerging economies such as the czech one. it is also necessary to promote the energy efficiency of new buildings. it can bring about a change of trend most effectively. the increase in energy consumption is still greater each year than the savings achieved by the deployment of energy-saving technologies. and it will continue to be. the principle of public-private partnership will support the research into energy-efficient technologies in practice and in line with the lisbon strategy. the obligation to provide information on the energy performance of appliances on labels should not be a bureaucratic burden for manufacturers and should not contain misleading information for consumers.
(the beginning of the performance was not heard) in each member state there are tasks for the roma community that society cannot solve quickly. that is why i am disturbed that the only specific example mentioned in the well-formulated but general resolution is the czech republic or the letech concentration camp. i still supported the general resolution, but i have a reservation. the commission is hereby called upon to abolish the pork industry, which in my opinion has no place in the site of a former roma concentration camp, and to help establish a pilgrimage memorial. and i ask that the commission allocate sufficient funds to this end and thus help the czech republic to cope with this situation. if the european parliament voted as the only specific case for the czech republic, then i think that should be a priority for the european commission and for the financial resources as well.
in writing. let me make a point of explanation on the vote on the report on the european research area. the european research area, which is coming together here every fall, is a very good idea and vision. but it's a long way from being a reality. it's not enough to talk about it, you have to look at how it works and if it works at all. my experience as a member from a new member state is that the european research area is just an illusion, a wishful thinking. i will demonstrate this on the first available data on the rate of urgency of projects from the new member states. of the 559 grants approved under the early-scientist grant, only two went to the czech republic (not one to poland, which is several times larger!), while over 100 went to the uk and 80 to germany. it is hard to believe that the difference in the quality of projects is so vast as to justify such figures. of course, the lack of experience of project submissions by entities from the new member states plays a role. in any case, this is a sign that the european research area is not yet functioning as it should. so it is necessary to speak less about it verbally and to take more concrete steps to fulfill it. and i have to say, we're kind of slipping away from that.
i was originally going to talk about something else entirely. but circumstances force me to comment on a matter of extreme gravity. it's the declaration of independence of kosovo by albanian separatists. i am convinced that this step, which is contrary to international law, will have tragic consequences that will affect the whole of europe. i think it is particularly tragic that the european union is going to support this separatism, which is being carried out at the expense of a sovereign state that has been sorely tried, namely serbia. this is fundamentally unacceptable. the whole scenario of this separatism reminds me too much of the events that took place in my native country, czechoslovakia, in 1938. at that time, the separatist move of german nationalists, also backed by the western powers, was followed by the greatest warfare that mankind had ever known. and as we know, history repeats itself either as farce or as tragedy. let's not admit either of those. i therefore call on us to oppose this separatist move and not to allow the violation of serbia's sovereignty.
in your speech you said: 'it is necessary to ensure that the international protectorate of kosovo remains part of serbia in accordance with resolution 1244 and international law.' i don't see how this relates to the kosovo declaration, which you seem to agree with. you are also right that it is our duty to make kosovo multi-ethnic and democratic again. the unilateral declaration of independence is an unprecedented violation of international law. it is incredible that the occupying powers have done nothing to this day to bring back the several hundred thousand inhabitants of this territory from the eight nations who were expelled with the tacit consent of the occupiers. today, instead of creating conditions, you agree to the unilateral proclamation of a second albanian state. his economy seems to be based on opium distribution across europe. is that all right with you, mr. chairman? the chamber of deputies of the parliament of the czech republic and other parliaments are asking for a negotiated solution on the basis of international law. you have to realize that there are no one-size-fits-all solutions, like you said. every solution is a precedent. we cannot allow the violation of serbia's sovereignty.
the rapporteur of the committee on regional development. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the report on the protection of the community's financial interests with a somewhat misleading reference to the fight against fraud. what is really meant is not fraud in the true sense of the word but rather irregularities. while fraud presupposes bad intent, an irregularity can also be the result of negligence and poor accounting practices. in such sensitive areas as financial relations in the community, we should treat terms with caution. as rapporteur on the committee on regional development, i regret the increase in the number of irregularities detected in projects financed by the structural funds. it is not a good business card for some member states and their internal control mechanisms. however, the problems faced by these countries should not be seen as a reason to review the current system of decentralised control of the use of the structural funds. the responsibility is clear, it is individual and it must also be enforceable. achieving an adequate level of financial control mechanisms in the member states is the first step to be taken. the second step is to ensure the recovery of funds wrongly paid. one possible procedure is to suspend interim payments to a member state which delays in recovering funds incurred as a result of irregularities. the existence of a weak control mechanism could undermine confidence in the whole system of drawing on the structural funds and could cast a negative light on the european union as such. what we need next is more openness and transparency of controls. i therefore support the european transparency initiative, which should make public information on beneficiaries of structural fund support. this is a management of public resources and should be accompanied by certain requirements for the beneficiaries of such aid. closer cooperation with the court of auditors, which has so far been lagging behind, is an important prerequisite for better evaluation of control systems. it is clear that the court's reports are often not pleasant reading for the european institutions, but they should be given more attention. the worst thing you can do is bury your head in the sand and avoid responsibility.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we will adopt tomorrow, at second reading, the common position reached by the council on the customs code. it is a successful modernisation of european customs law and is a real gateway to an electronic, centralised, interoperable and automated customs system. all the community institutions will use one administrative 'one-stop-shop' for their operations, which will also make for the effective control we so badly need. the single customs information portal single window will enable businesses to communicate with only one office in the union in the country of their establishment. this standard does indeed simplify, unify and humanise terminology and definitions. it is a great example of how we can simplify bureaucracy and improve the legal environment for businesses and citizens in an enlarged union. plus, they say the investment should be paid back by 2010. i thank the rapporteurs, mrs fourta and mr newton dunn, the commission and the council for three years of really well-done work.
commissioner, i am also convinced that the european union delegations and the new market access teams operating in third countries need a substantially stronger mandate and that the commission should reassess its priorities in the deployment of human resources in the european union delegations and increase their numbers, especially those in china, india, russia and brazil. but member states should also contribute more substantially to the human and financial resources of these delegations, in proportion to their commercial interests. furthermore, the commission and the member states should cooperate better with the european chambers of commerce, trade associations and agencies of the member states in third countries, as this is important for the exchange of information between delegations, representative offices and european business associations. this would be particularly helpful for small businesses. but the main objective of our strategy must be reciprocity in trade relations, especially with china, for example, and more rigorous enforcement of international trade law, and not to label it sometimes as protectionism.
the rapporteur is the committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to commend the excellent work of all the rapporteurs on the package. as draftsman of the itre opinion on the report by mr stubb, i shall be dealing with a group of about 25% of products where the principle of mutual recognition of technical regulations by member states is in force. this is a market of goods worth approximately eur 500 billion. these groups include, for example, construction products, precious metal products, childcare products and many other products. although the european court of justice established the rule of mutual recognition almost 30 years ago in the cassis de dijon judgment, the reality is somewhat different, which is why this legislation is so necessary and important. unfortunately, member states very often abuse their position and systematically prevent products lawfully marketed in another member state from entering their markets. in addition to the financial losses specifically for smes, which are the most affected by this legislation, the practice of member states imposes a significant administrative burden on these entrepreneurs. businesses have to reluctantly submit to national authorities and institutions and undergo additional burdensome administrative procedures, adapt their products in the non-harmonised area if they want to import them into these member states or not export them at all. by laying down clear procedures, burden of proof, time limits and obligations for both the economic operators and the authorities which choose to derogate from this rule, the application of this principle can be enforced more effectively, which will contribute to the achievement of the free movement of goods, one of the four fundamental freedoms. at the same time, this will reduce the imbalance between entrepreneurs and the public authorities who decide on market access. i believe that the main objective of this proposal will be achieved and that the european consumer will ultimately benefit the most from the effective enforcement and application of this principle.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, unlike many other economic sciences, marketing is a real science, and therefore has its own clear laws and rules, regardless of who is involved in marketing. these include clear technical product specifications, an emphasis on looking for specific differences in similar products and an effort to protect geographical indications in clearly specified cases. however, these do not normally have anything to do with the technical characteristics of the product. one aspect of the single market is the desire not to restrict the sale of products in the territory of another state by non-tariff barriers, such as quantitative restrictions, the need for re-certification in individual countries, the non-recognition of industrial designs, specific packaging and labelling requirements for products that go beyond normal practice, etc. the first step that can help to remove misunderstandings, or artificial barriers to the free movement of goods, is to improve awareness. i therefore welcome the efforts to establish one or more commodity contact points in each country. their main task will be to provide information on technical rules used in other member states of the union. the proposal also focuses on the method of proof, including a technical procedure, which may result in the refusal of access to the market of a product in another member state, even though the product has been released on the market in the other member state or country of origin. the whole procedure is designed to improve the dialogue between the competent authorities of the member states. this is to reduce the risks associated with the prohibition of the sale of goods on the target market. the problem with this action, which is certainly laudable, is that it seeks to cover as much of the product range as possible in the directive. of course, it is naive to think that we can apply a similar or even the same approach to industrial products, such as transportation, clothing, footwear, and food. i personally believe that specific approaches will continue to be needed for individual items of goods, and i wholeheartedly support their unification. i don't think it's going to be a problem in the harmonized area. for goods for which the requirements are not harmonised, i.e. which are outside the lists of harmonised products, this will be somewhat worse. the directive sets a deadline of 20 days for suppliers or sellers of a product to respond to an opinion from the responsible authorities of the state which, on the basis of the so-called public interest, requires the product to be withdrawn from the market, banned or, where appropriate, modified before it is placed on the market. the possibility of review by national courts is also clearly emphasised, and this is a positive point of the proposal. i believe that the only oddity in the draft directive, which i support in the whole package, is the reference to the treaty. it is mentioned, for example, in article 5.2 the added value of the community intervention, the linkage of the proposal with other financial instruments and possible synergies. if the treaty of lisbon is meant, i think that is a little bit inappropriate, because its ratification has only just begun. in conclusion, i am convinced that the directive will succeed in removing the problems associated with the need for continuous testing and certification, since in some countries the certification of the organisation that the undertakings have already obtained is insufficient. i have dealt with this myself as an export-oriented company representative and i believe that the path indicated is a transitory one.
commissioner, the dynamic development of the union's internal market and the ever more dynamic import of dangerous goods, especially from china, are forcing us to modernise the rules for placing products on the market, including non-harmonised products. this triple legislative package will simplify administration and at the same time allow member states to better supervise the union market, which today does not operate at the same level. therefore, after extensive discussion, we are tightening the requirements for the entire supply chain from the union or chinese producer through importers to distributors in the union. we are unifying the rules for the accreditation of testing centres and the mutual recognition of certifications. however, in addition to the supervisory institutions, the role of the informed consumer is also increasing, who should distinguish between the goods he buys and the labels. we therefore also reinforce the importance of the european ce marking, which symbolises to the inspection authorities and, today, to consumers, that goods meet european quality and safety criteria. all the more reason to fight against its misuse, including deliberate confusion with labels such as china export. i found out that the european trade mark had not yet been registered, so i asked the commission to do so. the commission responded by stating that it had initiated registration. however, the published notice does not yet mention its application for registration of the ce marking at all. i therefore call on the commission to act. i would also ask you, commissioner, to register the european trademark in foreign markets. both will allow further legal action to be taken against abuse, including compensation. i think the slickness of this place is inexcusable. but i appreciate the very good work done by the commission in preparing this 'goods package', and i particularly appreciate the hard work of all the rapporteurs, whom i would like to thank for the great result.
mr president, land and sea borders have been moved by enlargement, customs officers now have additional tasks, not only customs control, but also counterfeiting, money laundering, drugs, anti-dumping or consumer health measures. i therefore very much welcomed and supported the commission's proposal to allow for a higher degree of coordination between member states' institutions, including close cooperation with europol, frontex, interpol and the world customs organisation. however, we also ask that third country institutions which thus obtain commercial and personal data from member states ensure the same data protection standards as the european union. i thank the members for supporting today the full text of these proposals of our committee. i also thank the reporters for their diligent work.
mr. prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has had a very successful year. there has been an enlargement to include romania and bulgaria, the schengen area has been extended to include nine more countries, the euro area has been extended to include three countries, and the euro is gradually replacing the dollar as the main international currency across the globe. the european union, with its 500 million citizens and consumers, is becoming a major player in global trade, environmental and technical rules and standards. and despite the wishful thinking of many eurosceptics, europe has also reached agreement on a new reform treaty. i mention these achievements here also because they were achieved with the participation of the new member states, not in spite of them, but precisely with the active participation of the new member states. i therefore welcome the prime minister's statement on priorities, and one of the priorities for the coming years should be: further enlargement of the european union, particularly in the western balkans. but this assumes two. of course, this requires the technical readiness of the countries in question, but it also requires a certain amount of courage on our part, on the part of the member states. courage of politicians, courage to explain to their citizens that this enlargement was very successful, that enlargement did not mean less security, but more security, did not mean less freedom, less democracy, but more freedom, more democracy and also more prosperity. i think we should have the courage to introduce visa-free travel in the western balkans as soon as possible. what are we afraid of? the remaining 20 million in the western balkans, when we are a community of 27 countries and 500 million citizens? one final note. the swedish presidency is next year. he'll be in the top three with france and the czech republic. i would like to call on the prime minister to appeal to his czech colleagues to submit the lisbon reform treaty to the czech parliament for ratification as soon as possible. as a czech citizen, i fear that the eurosceptic czech government has no interest in this.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for putting so much time and so much work into the proposal. after this positive observation, i regret to say that the proposal before us is extremely wordy and not very clear and contains many repetitive motifs. who is the text intended for? i am afraid that the people of the countries concerned will be embarrassed by such a text. the diplomats of the countries concerned will have a headache, as they will find it difficult to find ways to accommodate the criticism contained in the report. i think it would be appropriate to separate the resolution and the explanatory statement in future. let me give the example of kazakhstan, which is mentioned. at the end of 2006, and i believe the commissioner was present, we attended a reception in brussels for the president of kazakhstan, nursultan nazarbayev. there were words of appreciation and praise, and when i read the draft report, i feel that many of us did not mean the applause and the words of applause sincerely and seriously. is the flow of gas and oil the measure of our objectivity? do we not know that kazakhstan is actually implementing a programme called 'pass to europe' which reflects the republic's sincere desire to move closer to the european union in the areas where it needs to? i dare say that we will not find in the report presented an honest answer to the question of the kazakhs whether kazakhstan is geographically and not only geographically part of europe. i also find the traditional paternalistic tone with which the european union has turned in a benevolent way to its poor, uneducated relatives inappropriate. the text makes no distinction between the countries of the region, either in terms of human rights or economic and social development. the requirement to include both central asian countries and mongolia seems understandable only as an attempt to include under one roof states to which the authors attribute similar geopolitical significance. probably as a potential foothold against russia and china. some of the wording of the proposed resolution raises questions. what does r mean? a number of countries have had legitimate interests in the region in the more or less distant past. are we today supporting the former colonial ambitions of some european powers, or are we showing concern for the interests of select oil companies? i am not clear why the wording of the motion suggests that russia and china are unhealthily trying to strengthen their sphere of influence through the shanghai organization. in conclusion, i would like to say that the good intentions of improving the european union's relations with the countries of central asia and the desire to promote their democratic and socioeconomic development were drowned out in the very problematic interests of ambitious groups when the motion for a resolution was being prepared. the resulting text is unacceptable to me in view of the real aims and needs of the european union.
if the work of european integration is to be lasting, it must be based on the deepening and consolidation of international law. today, the opposite is true. with the recognition of kosovo's independence, international law is dealt a huge blow, and the first victim of this explosion of violations of international law will be european integration and transatlantic relations. i think it's obvious. while the ethnic principle was rejected as a principle for border correction in the case of bosnia, in the case of kosovo, the ethnic principle was adopted as the sole yardstick and the sole principle. i think that international law cannot be violated with impunity and things like the helsinki final act will be seriously damaged in this way.
the european union is not a state and therefore does not need a constitution. this was eventually admitted grudgingly by the supporters of the former european union. unfortunately, not everyone has accepted this, which is why we have point 6 in this report, which expresses regret at the changes that have been made in the new treaty compared to the draft of the former european constitution. i consider it a big mistake. here, consensus was reached by the 27 member states in a difficult way, some governments demanded changes to the draft of the former euro-constitution and these governments are now indirectly criticised for this approach in the report by mr de vig and mr corbett. in my view, if the european parliament votes for this point 6 of the report, it will show a certain disrespect for the complex consensus of the 20 000 governments of the member states and will certainly not help the whole thing. so i'm not going to support that part.
i voted against it, and let me tell you why. first, the text sets out the overall role of the european union as a global economic and social power. secondly, it is based on the so-called leadership role of the european union in the world and blindly believes that the surrounding dynamic world will develop as the european union itself wishes. thirdly, the declaration believes that the european union will take a leading role in creating some kind of global norms and standards. fourth, the lisbon strategy makes economic cooperation with the outside world conditional on the so-called enforceability of core labour standards. fifth, the lisbon strategy explicitly builds on the so-called lisbon treaty, although it has not yet been ratified by most member states. the declaration calls for the introduction of a minimum wage in those member states where a minimum wage has not yet been introduced.
mr president, i voted against for the following reasons. the report talks about a more equitable distribution of profits, the report introduces the concept of so-called full employment through the allocation of public investment. the report seeks to compensate for so-called market failures through taxes, introduces green taxes, promotes science and research through deductible items, which will lead to further non-transparency of the tax system, calls for new european legislation.
in writing. what was the soviet union's legacy in the central asian states? equality for women, elimination of child labour and illiteracy, monoculture farming. nowhere has religious rule been established. the eu's priority is to exploit these countries' natural resources, in particular oil, natural gas and uranium. the second priority is to cut off one of the main opium smuggling channels from afghanistan. and here we come to the direct responsibility of the eu and the us for the tendency to build authoritarian regimes in the states of the region. the spread of terrorist militancy and militant islamist ideas is prevented by individual states, but this situation has a negative impact on the development of civil society, participatory democracy and tendencies towards strong-arm rule. despite all the reservations that the report makes about the countries of the region, it is important to keep in mind the difficult conditions in which these countries are developing. it is the eu's duty to help overcome the fruits of the long-standing negative engagement of the largest eu and us states in neighbouring afghanistan. there is no reason to favour turkey as the main potential positive impact agent in the area. the current state of respect for minority rights in turkey does not justify this approach. on the contrary, the strong traditional ties with russia should be emphasised much more. russia is our closest ally in the spread of terrorism and drugs through the states of this region. i support the adoption of the report despite the reservations mentioned.
i am convinced that our question today is no longer whether to recognize kosovo or not. the question is how to maintain political and security stability in a region where ethnic hatred and fear reign and where unemployment is 40%. the independence of kosovo comes, paradoxically, at a time when european countries are moving towards political federalism. but the balkan reality clearly reflects the fact that eu policy simply does not offer a solution that would lead to the preservation of the integrity of the state and at the same time to the peaceful coexistence of all ethnic and religious entities. in this respect, calling this year the year of multicultural dialogue is almost a mockery. ladies and gentlemen, years ago, the united states and the european union unanimously declared that they would not recognize kosovo's independence. now not only the united states, but also many members of the union have recognized kosovo. it is therefore clear that the process of profiling national entities exists and will exist, is not globally managed and leads to the interruption or disruption of normal ties with the state of origin. therefore, our only objective can be to try to prevent bloodshed.
the attempt by the european union to declare kosovo a unique case is just an embarrassing wish that is the father of the idea. kosovo is not only setting a dangerous precedent, it is also a historical model. it is a mirror image of the situation of czechoslovakia and its german minority in the 1930s. how ironically history can repeat itself! the first four countries of the european union to unanimously declare that they recognize the breakaway republic were all four signatories to the munich agreement. while 80 years ago chamberlain, daladier mussolini and hitler partitioned czechoslovakia, today britain, france, italy and germany recognize the partition of serbia. they are tearing away from serbia its historical territory with the kosovo field, where in 1389 serbian nobles tried in a heroic battle to stop the advance of the ottoman turks into europe. serbian identity was born there. and now we, as the european union, are transplanting this historic heart of serbia elsewhere. shame on you, munich!
ladies and gentlemen, we've had enough. yes, you who want to recognize an independent texas in the united states, you who want to tear off the west of romania as a purely hungarian territory, you who want an independent scotland, catalonia, the basque country, other states will surely emerge in latin america and africa. kosovo is not a precedent, they say. but this is a mistake, a territory that was ethnically cleansed of eight nationalities with the help of the occupying forces and their sympathetic tolerance, a territory where today, in addition to drugs, the white meat trade, 50% unemployment and constant pressure on the remaining serbs, declares the independence of the second albanian state, is a bad example. it will continue to be a black mark on you, who have literally massacred international law here. shame on you, a true democrat should never agree with the new munich.
ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the reports we are discussing today are important for us, not only because they deal with the current state of cohesion policy and its territorial dimension, but also because they focus our attention on the future after 2013. i would like to take this opportunity to thank mrs kallenbach and mr guellec for their excellent work and for their open-minded approach. the two reports, as mentioned by both rapporteurs, should be seen in context. territorial cohesion, as enshrined in the lisbon treaty, is becoming as important a topic as social and economic cohesion. however, it is territorial cohesion that is the least explored and addressed. territorial cohesion is not yet clearly defined either. despite the general effort of cohesion to bridge differences, these still persist and are some of the greatest precisely on the borders between the former eastern bloc and the democratic west. in my view, territorial cohesion also lies in the cohesion of the urban and rural areas. there is no doubt that cities are the engines of growth in countries and it is therefore right that the motion for a resolution accepts the urban issue while calling for a strengthening of the integrated approach. in this context, it will be necessary in the future to improve and simplify access to the structural funds for cities and to allow for greater integration of public administration and the business sector in the financing of urban projects from private sources. we have adopted the charter of leipzig and it must be implemented gradually. at the same time, we have to create the conditions for the development of our lives, for the development of our countryside. i believe that we should analyse thoroughly whether the integration of rural policy into the cap is effective or whether another solution is desirable. ladies and gentlemen, just one last note. the debate on cohesion policy is mainly about the allocated funds. it is undeniable and right that cohesion policy is gaining momentum and is reflected in the european budget. cohesion policy will have to deal with new phenomena such as the ageing and dying of europe's population, the instability of energy supplies and the deterioration of the environment. therefore, we must modify this policy and ensure adequate resources.
madam president, yesterday in the debate on the ce mark i again reminded the commission that the registration of the ce mark has not yet been opened, although it has been enshrined in european legislation for 16 years and i asked for it in the interpellation three months ago. i welcome the fact that the commissioner for enterprise promised again yesterday to speed things up, but i am not sure he sees the importance of registration in foreign markets. until then, it is not possible to bring actions for damages against manufacturers and importers who abuse the european mark of conformity, which symbolises the safety of a product, for the purpose of unfair competition and misleading customers both in europe and abroad. it would certainly help to clear the market of unfair competition.
i also have deep sympathy for the people of gaza who have been held hostage by hamas. however, i could not support the european parliament's resolution today because the article calling for negotiations between the palestinian authority and hamas was not removed. we all know that the terrorists who have occupied gaza cannot be negotiated with. this call for parliament is a hypocritical attempt to make hamas a partner for the palestinian authority. i don't want to be a part of legitimizing a terrorist organization. i think the situation is unfortunately leading to an intervention, which should have the legitimacy of the united nations. and europe should play a very active role in this.
in writing. - as regards the report on the commission's annual report on monitoring the implementation of community law, i believe that one of its central themes is the commission's intention to improve its working methods in relation to notified cases of infringement of community law in the member states. under the proposed new working method, citizens' queries and complaints addressed to the commission are to be forwarded directly to the member states concerned. as the rapporteur, mrs frassoni, quite rightly pointed out, this new method of working of the commission, namely the retrospective forwarding of a complaint, may risk relieving the commission of its essential responsibility for the application of community law. in this context, i would also like to draw attention to a fact which has already been criticised in the european parliament: lobby groups are able to secure access to commission communications addressed to member states suspected of infringing community law, whereas citizens are not. however, it is citizens, and not biased interest groups, whose petitions are an indispensable source of information on breaches of community law.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first is the establishment of a permanent representation of the european commission in minsk, which, as far as i know, has also been approved by the president of the republic of belarus. i believe that the opening of the european union's permanent representation provides the basis for further activation and expansion of relations with the european union in such mutually beneficial areas as energy, transport, transit, but also environmental protection. the second positive point, which i think is important, is the ongoing expert meeting in brussels last june, which was mainly about energy issues, and the planned expert talks, which will cover both transport corridors and environmental protection. i think this direction is very, very important. we must not forget that belarus is still struggling with the very serious consequences of the chernobyl accident. the current trends in relations between the two countries show that a very critical and one-sided view of belarus has become firmly established in the political circles of the european union. it is necessary not only to criticize, but also to cooperate. the time has come for a positive step from belarus as well, and i think that the official belarusian authorities should at least come up with a moratorium on the death penalty, which would allow negotiations to resume on the renewal of belarus' membership of the council of europe. on the european union side, i would welcome, for example, the facilitation of the visa regime or the support of trainees, young specialists from belarus, who could get acquainted with the work of the european institutions directly.
(the beginning of the speech was not heard) i personally visited the epicenter of the radiation-affected area as a doctor. doctors and scientists are threatened and even jailed for reporting truthfully on the health of the population. the population has been deprived of dosimeters and they consume radioactive food. i only have 30 seconds, so i can only summarize: lukashenko is a murderer and we have to say it out loud. who else but the european union?
commissioner, i am calling on the commission here in strasbourg to release the funds reserved for crisis situations and to start reconstruction projects now, and in particular general widespread health care for civilians in north kivu. the recent earthquake has completed the work of humanitarian destruction. we all here call on the commission and the council to launch without delay a broad african coalition to find a political solution to this conflict.
i just wanted to say that i am very concerned about the attitude of some european union politicians and also members of this parliament to the negotiations of the czech government on visa-free travel with the united states. without violating a single provision of the existing treaties, our government has become the object of criticism, mentoring and admonition. the negotiations were not with a hostile or suspected country, but with a traditional friend and ally of european democracies. some of the criticisms are difficult to explain to czech citizens who have been waiting for years for visa-free travel to the united states. if anyone wants to damage the image of the european union in the czech public, let him continue with this insensitive procedure. we should all try not to provoke unnecessary negative emotions in such a totally unsuspecting and non-threatening case for the security of the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, the situation is unsustainable, as has been stated here. three years after the enlargement of the european union, there is a gap between the old and new member states. and the european commission's negotiations with the united states to eliminate this inequality have not made any significant progress. therefore, there is nothing to be said against bilateral action by the states concerned, especially in a situation where there is no breach of any part of community legislation. on the contrary, the czech republic has incorporated the european union's requirements in its memorandum so that it is fully compatible with european community law, as evidenced by the opinion of the council's legal service. and there is no infringement of any community competence with regard to the common visa policy, because the proposed eta system is not a visa. it is certainly true that the united states is only willing to negotiate bilaterally for countries to be included in the visa waiver program because it is required by its domestic law, and only countries, not international organizations or communities, can enter this program. and that's a reality that needs to be worked with. there's no precedent for other states. i believe that the czech republic and other countries have and can continue to engage in bilateral negotiations with the united states. and of course they will continue to be ready to act transparently, to share information and to consult their next steps with the european commission and the presidency. i would like to thank the commissioner for the realistic approach he has shown in his opening remarks. and i would just like to warn that any external pressure from the european level on this or that individual member state should not bring about political risks, should not damage the image of the european union, especially in a situation where the new reform treaty is being ratified in individual countries.
ladies and gentlemen, let's remember that all citizens of the newly acceding countries, except for slovenians, traveling to america must obtain a visa. unlike other europeans, these citizens have to queue up at american embassies, pay a hefty sum of money, and have waited years in vain for the union to support their efforts to abolish visas. only the greeks are in the same situation as the old member states. it is true that the european union has been putting pressure on the united states for a long time, especially after the expansion of the schengen area, and the pressure from brussels officials to remove visas for americans to the new member states has been escalating, but four years have passed since our entry and still nothing has happened. and that's why the czech republic decided to go its own way and listen to the demands of its citizens. the memorandum concluded between the czech republic and the usa must therefore be seen as a contribution to the joint effort to level the playing field for all members of the union. let us remember that this step is in full compliance with european union law and no one should question it.
let me make a few remarks on the debate that took place here a moment ago. it has been said many times that we, the european union, must act in unity and together with the united states. so that's the whole point for most of the speakers. not individual welfare for individual members of individual member states, but to pursue a unified anti-american policy. i want to tell you that for the vast majority of czech citizens, visa-free travel is something that is symbolic of the end of our historic return to democratic states. and i want to assure you that the ratification process in the czech parliament on visa-free travel will go much faster than the ratification process on the lisbon treaty.
for the group gue/ngl the european parliament and the european commission have been discussing aviation safety for several years. the purpose of the amendment of regulation no 2320 of 16 december 2002 is to ensure that the basic standard common rules for civil aviation security is improved. but the result doesn't quite match the assignment. i want to hear a clear answer to my question so that not only i but many other members can raise their hands in favour of the outcome of the conciliation procedure. commissioner, monsieur le commissaire, c'est pour vous: since the new directive does not guarantee a uniform procedure for assessing the safety reliability of pilots, how will this problem be solved after the repeal of regulation 2320/2002? can you confirm that an agreement has been reached between the pilots' association, the european cockpit association, and the commission on the preparation of a regulation addressing the uniform verification of pilots' safety competences? if so, when will this proposal be submitted? your answers alone will determine how we vote tomorrow.
let me add, madam president, to the discussion that has taken place that while most of us want or agree that transport policy needs to be greener, at the same time no one wants to restrict mobility. we're pretty different in how we do it. the problem is we don't have a clear set of priorities. on the one hand, we want to be sector-neutral for transport modes, but at the same time we criticise ourselves for not supporting rail transport enough, even for freight transport. but can you imagine it without the introduction of a major environmental tax on road freight or a major rail preference? the internalisation of external costs is alleged to affect competitiveness. we have no social impact study on the introduction of the euro-fan for freight transport. should we not first establish our priorities? what about calling a european referendum on these priorities?
let me complement the discussion by pointing out that, within all policies, there should be a clearer space for smes, which are the backbone of european employment stability. we still have reservations, especially in the parliaments of the new countries, where the concept of flexicurity - flexible labour markets - needs to be implemented in order to make businesses more responsive to new challenges and to be able to offer more new jobs. and another thing, think small first, that's our motto, but when it comes to individual directives and regulations, we lack the european commission's studies on their impact on small businesses. but we have impact studies done by multinational corporations. i welcome the proposal for a 'small business' act and i hope that it will not be limited to ideas, but that in the european elections we will be able to say to the european citizens: we have fulfilled our programme for a more efficient and secure economic area.
for the group gue/ngl. i would like to say that since the days of kondratyev's long-wave theory, we have known that the emergence of innovations and their introduction into society is an objective process, a process that has a certain objective regularity. however, we as policy-makers can support innovation and i personally think that the eit is a more important institution for the future of europe than the european commission. i think there are three things that are really important that can help in the public consciousness, in the popularization of science and what it means. one, that scientists are seen as a role model in society. it is extremely important, for example, that a man like mr holý, a prominent chemist in our country who holds dozens of patents, be seen as a role model for young people rather than an athlete or a singer. so, like a certain slogan, "value pattern", you know? i also value leadership, because the value of science has been fundamental to european humanity and i think we should strive to make europe a leader again in this area. more scientists have been born in europe than on all other continents combined. finally, it is the promotion of what i would call the 'pioneering spirit', a kind of pioneering spirit that would show europe the way forward.
ladies and gentlemen, the figures from the world intellectual property organization make it clear that the problem in europe is not a lack of new ideas. what's really missing is the transformation of them into business opportunities. but success in the global economy is not going to come from the european institute of technology. the innovation competitiveness will only be helped by greater availability of finance, including risk capital. and creating an environment of creativity and real academic and entrepreneurial freedom, along with adequate reward for the results of outstanding scientists. ladies and gentlemen, i am fundamentally opposed to the creation of a european institute of technology. it does not confer a competitive advantage on the union. it will be a redundant structure that doubles existing support for science, development and education. it'll be another place where we're unproductively drowning taxpayer money. and it's in danger of the same embarrassment as the galileo system. the private sector, on whose money the commission and the council rely, has no reason to finance a senseless political-bureaucratic dream.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to congratulate commissioner figeľ and rapporteur paasilinn on all the work they have done on this project. there were both positive and negative views on the eit and the discussion will certainly continue until the eit is actually launched. i would like to highlight an idea that the eit will support in this forum. and that is that any money from the eu budget that is moved to science, research and education is money well moved and certainly not money that is drowned. especially when the eit will include the best minds in europe.
mr president, i abstained on the draft regulation on the common rules because i see weaknesses in it. i consider the most serious method of verifying the reliability of aircrew not covered by the regulation itself but which will be covered by a separate regulation. it follows from the approved text that, as soon as it enters into force, the implementing regulation will be placed under the eu classified documents regime and the information contained therein will no longer be publicly available. it may therefore be that even those who are bound by the document will not have access to it. that would be contrary to the principle of legal certainty. the activities of the advisory group set up by the commission alongside the committee are also linked to this. this advisory group will be composed of european organisations directly concerned with aviation security. it is not right that the parties concerned should only be informed by the committee without having access to classified information. i therefore call for a solution that meets the requirements of openness and transparency.
i welcome the launch of the european institute of technological innovation after three years. i am glad that the institute will not be a 'super university', but will create an innovation community so that research can be used more widely in industry and also in healthcare. the link is also expected to substantially increase investment in science from the business sector. we'll know if we can do that when the number of european patents starts to grow and we catch up with america and japan. the seat of the institute should be in the new member state. the czech republic is best prepared, and is already a sought-after conference centre for communication between scientists and businessmen. moreover, charles university is a symbol of the common educational roots of old and new europe.
i voted to establish the european institute of technology. i am convinced that it will contribute to improving the competitive base of the member states by involving partner organisations in integrated innovation, research and training activities at the highest international level. i expect the eit to become a reference point for innovation management by promoting new forms of cooperation between partner organisations involved in the knowledge triangle of research, universities and the private sector. i expect the eti to build a global reputation and provide an attractive environment for the best talent from around the world.
thank you, mr president, although i do not represent the united kingdom, i have also supported today the release of eur 162 million for flood relief in the united kingdom, where damage has reached eur 4.6 billion. i have two reservations. first, we decide after nine months, and then there are other european countries with an outstretched hand, like greece, that are in compliance. i think we should create two funds. one for the european union and one for the other countries, so that we don't have to put money in our account to help the poor countries. and second, the rules for pumping prefer big disasters, and we should be able to help in small regions. solidarity is not about size. fellow officers, i'm calling for a rule review.
i supported the creation of a budget line galileo programme administrative and management expenditure as set out in the commission's amended proposal, as well as the amendment to transfer eur 2 million from the operational line to the administrative line in the galileo budget. it is intended to finance activities such as the definition and monitoring of risk management, intellectual property rights concepts, but also markets for innovative navigation elements. and i'm very supportive of that. however, i am concerned that on 29 january the itre committee adopted eight amendments to remove the galileo and egnos programme monitoring bodies and i would like to see a serious debate on this in plenary.
the debate last night did not reassure me that the european commission and the member states are prepared to devote sufficient resources in the foreseeable future to improving the quality of transport infrastructure in the new countries. the commissioner correctly formulated this as a condition for a change of attitude at the end of the debate yesterday. i would ask the commission to provide us with an overview of the real plans for completing the motorway and strengthening the railway infrastructure in the new countries. i think that without this we cannot be realistic about a strategy for sustainable transport policy. if we want, and i very much expect, to achieve its ecological operation. i also supported the amendment on the euro coin. its review must not be an excuse against a sustainable transport strategy.
the reform of the common agricultural policy was intended to make it less regulated and more market-oriented. however, given the larger size of czech farms, the regime set out in the report is unacceptable. the czech republic has not been able to demonstrate that the aid is compatible with the internal market. almost 40% of direct payments would then be degressively charged in the czech republic, compared with 6,5% in france and only 2,5% in austria. the current proposal would then require czech enterprises to split up, which would be meaningless and would actually reduce their efficiency. neither this nor the compromise proposal is acceptable to the czech republic, because it exposes us to discrimination that will lead to an unjustified, artificial interference with the competitiveness of czech farmers.
ladies and gentlemen, i think that at tomorrow's summit, the heads of state should wake up and admit that reducing european co2 emissions by a fifth and increasing renewable energy by a fifth in 12 years is a utopia. if we restrict european industry further, we will threaten the competitiveness of businesses and jobs and we will drive investment away to countries that do not put climate barriers in their way. second, instead of promoting the nonsense that crowds of climate-driven refugees are pouring into europe from africa and asia, let us reflect on our policies that have made europe a destination for poor migration, not a destination for brain migration. i believe we should focus on innovation that reduces the energy intensity of manufacturing. we should be favoring and paying for the technical brains over the green brains. and we should get rid of the unfounded fear of nuclear reactors. if the council wants to act in the interests of citizens, countries should invest in nuclear research, development and education.
ladies and gentlemen, the european union has made tremendous progress in recent years. its economy is growing faster than the u.s. or japan. the union is a world trading power, the largest provider of development aid and a model for political, economic and social relations for the rest of the world. as mentioned above, the european union is also gradually achieving the objectives of the lisbon strategy. whether it's employment, whether it's other aspects. it is gratifying to see that new member states, such as the presidency of the council, slovenia, are also contributing to these successes in equal measure. the european union is facing new challenges, of course. one of these challenges is over-reliance on imported energy resources, and it's also climate change. i believe that the key, or at least one of the keys, to solving this problem is savings, new, more energy-efficient technologies and, of course, diversification of energy sources. in this philosophy, the european union is moving in the right direction. i would, however, urge the commission and the council to devote more attention than has been done so far to the question of the use of nuclear energy. energy that's safe, clean, energy that reduces our dependence on imports. and speaking of competitiveness, look at the direction the united states, russia, china, india are going, and even from our research perspective, we should be doing nuclear energy research much more than we are doing now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the lisbon strategy is clear that economic success is linked to the quality of education, research and innovation and that it is necessary to promote the improvement of this quality. the seventh framework programme and the european institute of technology, as key projects for development and quality improvement, are mainly oriented towards existing centres of excellence and take account of their potential. however, the centres of excellence are predominantly in the old countries of the union. therefore, i would like to point out that there are also quality education and research institutions in the new countries, including universities, which should be targeted to achieve the excellence mark. the expansion of the european union's high-quality education and research base would be achieved.
i supported mr goepel's report on the common agricultural policy because i consider it to be much more effective than the commission's current proposal. i appreciate a much more realistic and fairer setting of the degressivity rate for direct payments, although i am in principle against creating an artificial criterion of size of enterprises when cutting direct payments, as such a procedure would particularly affect large farms in the new member states. it is not fair that direct payments to large enterprises should be cut more than to others. it's a misconception that these large farms are owned by a single owner who is a beneficiary of generous subsidies. their ownership structure is diversified, and they are mostly cooperatives consisting of a large number of members, small land owners. and they are the final recipients of direct payments and would be the most affected. i would also like to warn against the much-discussed modulation, i.e. the transfer of funds from the direct payments pillar to the rural development pillar. the funds will remain in the national envelope, but the result will be that farms will be discriminated against directly by the member state.
mr. chairman, i'd like to comment on mr. tabajdi's report on sustainable agriculture and biogas. although i did not support this report, i would like to highlight the positive part of it, which is the separation of waste, especially in urban areas, and the use of biogas as a bio-component. however, this system is very costly economically and more expensive than mere landfilling or incineration and therefore deserves attention. i therefore consider it very important to support municipalities in particular in expanding the collection of municipal solid waste, the separation of the bio-component and their recycling, and to create specific financial instruments, or to make it easier to use structural assistance from european union funds.
in writing. - as regards the draft report by mr lutz goepel on the state of play of the common agricultural policy, i consider it my duty, as one of the czech republic's representatives in the ep, to draw the attention of the house to the following facts. the commission's communication on the revision of the common agricultural policy should result in legislative proposals being submitted to the council and the ep by may 2008 at the latest. there is no doubt that the czech republic is striving for a european agriculture that is dynamic and focused on the sustainable development of the agri-food sector, with food and energy security as its priority. of the proposed measures to be discussed in the cap review, modulation and degressivity of direct payments are the most important for the czech republic. indeed, a degressive measure, reducing direct payments on the basis of the size of farms, would have a selective impact only on certain member states and would have a negative impact on the competitiveness of the agricultural sector in countries such as the czech republic. at the same time, such a measure would necessarily lead to the organisational split of agricultural holdings. for these reasons in particular, the current modulation and degressivity proposal is difficult for the czech republic to accept and i believe not only for the czech republic.
for the ppe-de group. madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank baroness nicholson and anna gomes and the commission from the bottom of my heart. the impossible has become possible. this parliament, the european parliament, has found a consensus in its recommendation to the council and the commission on how the european union should proceed in iraq. past is past. the situation has stopped deteriorating, it's starting to stabilize. young people are turning away from sectarianism and violence, militias are losing support, the mahdi's army is cooperating. this is imperative for the european presence. the main european task is to strengthen law and order, technical assistance to the police, the ministry of the interior, the judiciary, the prison system. the second area is to support the iraqis so that they can use their vast oil wealth through the budget. third, the strengthening of democracy through technical support for electoral processes. we also call on european companies and corporations to re-engage in iraq. but for that we need a common european position. we are dealing with the situation of refugees, asylum seekers and displaced persons. it takes two to tango. we need iraqi partners who respect transparency, fight corruption and nepotism, respect the law, human rights and democracy. we are ready to provide partner support to the iraqi parliament, train their assistants, travel there and function as part of an ad hoc permanent delegation. but one message is important, and let me say this as someone who came to basra for the first time on 7 april 2003: europe cannot remain part of the problem. let's offer a common european participation in changing the human tragedy of generations of iraqis.
mr president, i very much appreciate the initiative of the 13 member states to set up a joint research programme on assisted living for older people so that this generation can also make full use of information technology. this would no doubt enable them to communicate better and prolong their active working lives. i therefore fully support the aal programme becoming our decision for tomorrow, a joint programme of the european union, and i believe that it will indeed double the funds to the 600 million euro. i consider our request for 20% co-financing from national sources to be a sufficient incentive for member states to pursue these objectives. so let us put in place a green programme that will enable the effective development of innovative products and specific services using information and communication technologies geared to a secure and dignified old age. it is also an opportunity for smes and is fully in line with the objectives of the lisbon strategy and our values.
for the group gue/ngl ladies and gentlemen, in his classic work 'specting and punishing', the french philosopher michel foucault mentions, among other things, three aspects of imprisonment which, despite the long history of punishment, remain present today. first, there's the original intention to isolate the offender from society, second, punishment offers space for inner reconciliation with guilt, thus for catharsis, and finally, there's the modern aspect that gives the possibility of correction and re-socialization. that is what is considered crucial in civilized countries. rather than seeking revenge and humiliating the guilty, society sometimes tries, with little hope of success, to change the patterns of behavior that brought the offender into conflict with the law during his sentence. prison is not meant to harm the convicted person, let alone his family members. the reporter has very precisely formulated one of the problems of prison. this institution is focused on the guilt and punishment of the individual and does not take into account that the consequences of the punishment also affect the persons who are dependent on the convicted person. especially the children of convicted women. more than half of the women imprisoned in europe are mothers with one child. the figures vary from country to country, and so do the conditions in prisons. for example, in my country, the czech republic, the overcrowding of women's prisons is a major problem. on the other hand, there is an effort by the responsible authorities to mitigate the negative impact of the punishment on women and family members and to facilitate the return of these women to a normal life. however, even here, the help to prisoners to integrate into society is hampered by the lack of funds needed for work such as social welfare curators. i agree with the rapporteur that the conditions for maintaining family ties need to be improved, since separation from the family, together with the fact of guilt and punishment, results in alienation, which makes it much more difficult to return from serving a sentence. of course, i'm talking about cases where family ties have not been severed before. and one more important thing. psychological studies have shown that women have a hard time adjusting to close quarters with prisoners. men are more tolerant of cohabitation and more likely to resolve conflict.
mr president, as has already been said, only 5% of prisoners in europe are women. half of them are mothers of underage children, and most of them have a history of violence and abuse. i very much welcome this report and thank everyone who contributed to it. the report points out that member states must take care to create specific conditions for women to serve their sentences. emphasis on human dignity is, in my judgment, the key to the success of future re-socialization. the visit of children must be made comfortable and women must be brought to the realization of what dignity is, human dignity. i am therefore very surprised by the liberal proposal for a separate vote, it is article 19 and it is the right to participate in religious services. i am distressed that women in prison should, perhaps by voting, depending on what happens tomorrow, have different rights than women who are outside the prison walls.
mr president, this report is obviously very necessary, the developments are very dynamic in this area and have even preceded it. some of the new member states may have already set up these development agencies, which is not even reflected in the report. but i want to talk about something else. i would like to dispel the widely held myth that the new member states have no experience in this area. we have them, however we acquired them in the situation of a divided europe, behind the iron curtain, in another regime, and it was all ideologically and politically conditioned. but we have them, we've built power plants, breweries, helped with agriculture in the developing world. we have some pretty big debts left over from that time, by the way, but it doesn't matter at this point. the know-how is there. i would be quite happy if it were used, and i would like to call on the commission not to regard the new member states as newcomers, but to make effective use of the knowledge that exists here.
mr president, i would like to follow up on what mr zahraedil said. it's totally true. czechoslovakia, like other soviet bloc countries, was active in the third world in the past. it has successfully contributed to the development of their economies and this potential can be built upon. but there are also negative experiences. the negative experience is that external sources of growth can never replace internal sources, and this often undermines the ability of these economies to develop on their own. gunnar myrdal published his book "asian drama" a long time ago, and he contrasted the feeling of optimism that prevailed after world war ii in africa, for example, with the pessimism that worked in asian countries. today, the situation is completely different. asian countries are in many cases doing very well, while africa attracts only 2 percent of global investment and many countries are in economic stagnation. it also has to do with how the ruling elites in both regions behaved -- very differently. a french study contrasts the behavior of these elites, showing that unlike asian elites who invested in the economy, african elites hoarded the resources they created and took them outside their own territory.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, the russian federation is a country with which we desperately want to conclude strategic partnerships. if not democracy, then rule of law is the key point here. 27 february: an activist of the other russia coalition was released from a mental hospital in the russian city of tver. roman nikolaychik was a victim of punitive psychiatry. political pressure increased on him after he was chosen as a local candidate on the party list of the other russia coalition. larisa arap was held for 46 days after she published a critical article in the murmansk oblast. artem basyrov was hospitalised for over a month in the mari-el republic for supporting the other russia. 1 march: an open letter to the federal security service of russia. ‘we, journalists and colleagues of natalya morar, a correspondent of the new times magazine, demand that the leadership of the fsb ceases her anti-constitutional detention in the customs area of the domodedovo airport, and opens the russian border for her.’ 4 march: thousands marched in moscow and in the streets of st petersburg. in moscow, where authorities refused to grant a permit of assembly, dozens were arrested as police rushed the crowd with batons. nikita belykh, the leader of the union of right forces party, was carried off by camouflaged omon special forces troops. lev ponomarev, the chairman of the for human rights movement, and denis bulinov, the executive director of the united civil front, were also among those arrested. 7 march: journalists silenced during russian vote. in south sakhalin, an army lieutenant attacked a reporter of the yuzhno sakhalinsk tvoya gazeta. in novosibirsk, photographer yevgeny ivanov was accused of ‘resisting the authorities’ and ‘failing to register’. in st petersburg, a reporter of grazhdansky golos was detained by the militsiya for ‘being in a polling station without authorisation’. her newspaper is run by golos, an independent electoral monitoring group. a reporter of vpered (forward), a local daily from khimki in the moscow oblast, was attacked by militsiya officers when he tried to put in his ballot. this is the rule of law?
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased that the issue of developments in russia has been brought to the agenda of our parliament. it is certainly undeniable that good relations with the russian federation are a prerequisite for a strong european union in the future. i am very sorry that the elections in russia did not go without the intervention of the power structures. on the other hand, as has happened so many times before, i am again lacking on our part a simple expression of elementary respect for the work done and for the culture of the nation and country we are talking about today. it is undeniable that russia has not reached the threshold of social justice and quality of life that we would like to see anywhere in the world. it's struggling to cope with the demographic crisis. on the other hand, for the first time in russian history, the kremlin's top official is leaving voluntarily and being replaced by a popular vote. it is true that in russia, political technologies, tools and methods of governance, including electoral procedures, have been questioned for perfection. but these technologies were imported from the west. i would like to ask those who are now crying over the fate of democracy in russia whether they are also bothered by the fact that the european parliament is a bit cowardly in hiding from the question of how the high representative, mr solana, is handling international law?
it is not so long ago that mr rupel assured us that the slovenian presidency had acted correctly in the case of kosovo. what we expected has happened, which means the crisis is spreading. recently, mr thaçi broke the ruling coalition in macedonia and came out with a demand for federalisation, bilingualism and recognition of the skanderbeg flag. similarly, albanian separatists in the preševo valley in southern serbia are threatening to boycott the elections. and it is to be expected that this crisis will spread to montenegro. i think we need to help macedonia, give it all the help we can to keep it stable, but refuse any help to the albanian separatists, because it turns out that the decade-long attempt to turn the terrorists into democrats has totally failed.
the author. −first of all, allow me, as chair of the committee on the environment and public health, to congratulate the commissioner on her election and appointment to the commission today. although i was unable to attend her hearing for serious reasons, i must say that the impression she left on my committee was excellent and that she was unanimously welcomed in her post. as regards the question for oral answer, i would just like to say, as a preliminary point, what led us to raise this question and what led us to call on the individual states to take this serious diagnosis more seriously. as you probably know, as the report and the question have already pointed out, the incidence of cancer in europe is increasing. there are some contributing factors, we know that our population is aging, we know that there are some serious exposures to so-called carcinogens. trade associations point out that up to 8% of cancers across europe are still caused by occupational exposure to carcinogens. we must remember that during their lifetime, one in three europeans will be diagnosed with this disease and one in four will die from it. another important stimulus is that there is still a very large difference between treatment outcomes in the old and new member states. this imbalance is certainly also cause for reflection. the european union is certainly equipped with the capacity and the authority to coordinate national policies. it is also known that the adoption of national action programmes can reduce mortality for this diagnosis by up to 30%. we know that only 3 percent of all the money in developed countries goes to cancer prevention, 97 percent of the money goes to self-medication. and i would also like to call from this place for the patient, who can be the center of our treatment and should be the center of our care, to have better access to new science, to new information. that the european union should advocate a single register, that education should be as uniform as possible. it is a paradox that the european union still does not have a unified field of study in all countries, as oncology is undoubtedly. although it is an interdisciplinary field, its recognition as a field in its own right is a necessary, not a sufficient, condition for successfully combating this diagnosis. i would like to leave some of my speaking time to my colleague from the epp-ed group, professor trakatellis, and i shall conclude my opening remarks.
for the group gue/ngl in the european union, 70% of jobs are provided by smes. at the same time, however, these companies invest only 4% in science and research, in technological development, and this is undoubtedly a gap that prevents their entrepreneurial potential from being better exploited. we need to develop the potential of smes in the context of the renewed lisbon strategy, and there are several ways to do this. it is possible to improve their access to information, to improve their access to credit, to improve their cooperation with the public sector, and to work towards better links with large business units, to facilitate the interaction between small and large systems. i think it's possible and that it can be achieved in a relatively short time.
for the ppe-de group. after five years, in accordance with the council's rules, the european commission comes forward with a revised proposal for a research fund for coal and steel, which, after the expiry of the treaty establishing the coal and steel community, will manage the community's funds and invest the interest on the capital after the expiry of the treaty in coal and steel research. i welcome the fact that the commission has put forward a proposal which responds consistently to the changes of the last five years, reflects the conclusion of accession agreements in the context of the enlargement of the european union in 2004, namely the aforementioned agreement with, for example, estonia, and the extension of coal definitions, and focuses in particular on the protection of jobs, the efficient use of materials, energy resources in processing and production, etc. provisions addressing the complementarity of the seventh framework programme for science and research and those areas not covered in detail by the seventh framework programme are also an important part. apart from the commission's proposal itself, i would like to pay particular tribute to the work of my colleague, rapporteur gierka, and his draft report. the outcome of the vote in the itre committee, which adopted all the meaningful proposals, thus reflects a good preparation and a reasonable approach to further investment in science and research in the fields of coal and steel, two indispensable energy and manufacturing commodities today. i would simply ask my colleagues to reject unequivocally the proposals of certain groups which seek to downplay the importance of coal and steel and conventional energy sources in general, and the future of this fund which has proved to be indispensable in the field of research funding. coal and steel are among the most important energy and production commodities that have developed significantly in recent years, so it is important that the proposal takes into account, for example, the geographical distribution of deposits, as this will contribute to more efficient use and better energy security throughout the european union.
the cultural industry is a key provider of high value-added services on which a dynamic knowledge-based economy is based. it creates a significant source of jobs in creative sectors, which make a significant contribution to increasing competitiveness in the european union. this is linked to the requirements to support the cultural and creative sectors through the improvement of the system of qualification, education and training, in particular with a view to training students at all levels of education in cultural and artistic fields. i support the call for member states to integrate entrepreneurship courses into their national secondary and higher education curricula, especially in the humanities, arts and culture. at the same time, progress is needed in the mutual recognition of diplomas in the arts. i also support the call on the commission to take into account the specific nature of the cultural sector in all policies relating to the common market, competition, trade, enterprise, research and development.
for the group gue/ngl the global world is bringing about a global culture. but it's a term that allows for a variety of interpretations. global culture can be the essence of the best of sub-european cultures at the level of the european union. or it can be a postmodern universal culture that gradually overlaps and supplants the original diversity of europe. personally, i'd prefer the first option. i am in favour of the european union promoting cultural diversity, which enriches nations and helps them to learn from each other. the globalized world is globalizing our lifestyles and our work styles. transnational chains of commerce have made our cities one marketplace, so that sometimes you don't know if you're in paris or prague. that's enough, in my opinion. culture is linked to the soul of a people and the place where it originates. it's communicable and has the ability to both absorb and excrete. but it's also vulnerable if it becomes a commodity or if it is subjected to a tastelessness, to be available to everyone. culture should be available to all, but it should cultivate taste, not be subjugated, raise the bar and not exploit the fact that our demands on it are decreasing and that the general public is willing to settle for less. i thank the rapporteur for the emphasis he places on the preservation of the cultural heritage of each european nation.
the european union has a duty to protect europe's cultural wealth, because cultural heritage is essential to preserve, disseminate and share both within and outside the union. the implementation of this plan is conditional on political and financial support. the community programmes currently in existence in the cultural sector do not fully reflect the impact of the common cultural heritage of europeans. i support the call on the commission to propose the creation of specific programmes to develop both artistic creativity and the tangible and intangible assets that make up europe's cultural heritage. this cultural heritage must be managed in a sustainable way. this requires the promotion of public-private partnerships. the proposal to set up a european cultural patronage programme may be the right way forward.
although i have my doubts that the observed temperature changes are caused by human activity, i want to support the report of my colleague sacconi in some critical points. like the rapporteur, i lack an appreciation of the socioeconomic dimension and foreseeable consequences for citizens and the interlinkage of adaptation impacts across sectors. i also support the demands that the council reduce the thresholds for mobilising money from the solidarity fund and that the commission draw up a study on the economic aspects of the proposed measures with cost and possible benefit variants. ladies and gentlemen, i remain convinced that if we are to act in the interests of the citizens of the union, we should invest in nuclear research, development and education. scientific evidence shows that nuclear power produces no co2 and minimizes the worsening of climate change. it's also the cheapest low-carbon technology, it's reliable, and it's safe. i therefore consider it a mistake that the commission's green paper, which we are discussing today, mentions the core only marginally.
and while our era seems totally new and totally extraordinary, it's worth saying that there have also been major climate changes in the past, there have been climate cycles, and i think one of the important things to do in dealing with this challenge is to study historical climatology. we already have works like the study of the french historian emmanuel le roy ladurie or the green history of the world by clive ponting. i think it's very important to realize that in the past, humans have been able to do quite well with balancing the environment. for example, in my country, the czech republic, one of the most harmonious natural environments is in the southern bohemia, and few people realize that this is an artificial landscape. it's an artificial landscape that was created by human intervention because it used to be a swamp and now it's a pond basin that also serves as a recreational area.
the european parliament has once again remained the flagship of the defence of human rights, because we have found a broad political consensus in condemning the human rights violations in china, which, contrary to expectations, is not relaxing but consolidating its totalitarian power ahead of the olympic games. the olympic committee is blinded by the claim that sport and pressure on human rights are incompatible. i'm shocked by this pragmatic approach, which is a far cry from the original idea of the olympic games. i ask all other members today to write to the prime ministers of their governments, as i did, and to call on them to immediately boycott the ceremony unless china enters into dialogue with the tibetans and ratifies the international covenant on civil and political rights. the fact that the heads of state or government have not yet agreed on a common approach is a mistake, and i fear a failure.
mr. chairman, i would like to point out that our decisions sometimes have unintended consequences. the current enthusiasm for biofuels and their use in fuels is now being significantly corrected. not only does biofuel production make agricultural commodities more expensive, but biofuels also help to accelerate rainforest destruction. we should be able to learn from this for our legislature. other of our regulations may have similar adverse effects. recently, in particular, the tendency to voluntarily regulate products of the automotive industry. so let us not rush into regulations and consider them much more responsibly than we have done so far. there's an old saying, "twice the measure, once the slice".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to mention the serious problem of the constant attempts to revise the results of the second world war. these experiments are taking place, more or less intermittently and in various forms, also on the premises of the european parliament. as a rule, and in the vast majority, these are attacks on czech and czechoslovak so-called presidential decrees, which, relying on international legal acts, regulated the legal relations in the former czechoslovakia related to the defeat of nazi germany. i have information that some german and hungarian meps are preparing further actions this year against the czechoslovak presidential decrees. i therefore ask that such actions not be supported by the officials of the european parliament and that they be rejected in general. i'm sure we can all agree that any revision of the outcome of world war ii is completely unacceptable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, just as trade and cooperation bring nations and individuals together, so too does sport. in 2008, we are celebrating a significant anniversary, especially for the european states, the 100th anniversary of the founding of the world hockey federation. in honour of this anniversary, a group of meps from european hockey countries, led by slovak mep peter šťastný, organised an exhibition in the european parliament in brussels, which recalls both the successes and the troubled period of oppression of athletes in some countries during the communist oppression. thanks to mr lucky's contacts, the stanley cup, imported directly from canada for the occasion, was also exhibited for the first time in the european parliament and in belgium. in conclusion, i would like to thank you, mr president, and commissioner jan figeľ for sponsoring and opening the exhibition with the motto 'bringing people together through passion for sport' and, of course, all those who visited the exhibition and passed on this message to others.
mr president, the 20th century in europe was a century of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes, nazism and fascism, communism and its most terrible version, stalinism, all kinds of right-wing dictatorships in spain, portugal, greece and other countries. the horrors and crimes left behind by these regimes must never be forgotten, which is why i welcome the discussion of the past. however, this discussion should be conducted according to strictly non-partisan, objective and scientific criteria. under no circumstances should it be used for political fighting. but unfortunately, that's what happens a lot. for example, if we look at many of the new member countries of the european union, including my own czech republic, we see constant attacks on everything to the left of the center, everything to the left. right-wing politicians, journalists and so-called historians, many of whom were members of the former communist nomenclature, most of whom obtained their doctorates and engineering degrees in the schools of the communist regime, constantly attack social democracy as some kind of communist or post-communist party. and yet it was the social democrats who fought communism at home and in exile for 40 years, czech social democrats died in communist prisons, organized the first anti-communist uprising in the entire former soviet bloc on june 1, 1953 in pilsen, stood in the forefront of the reform process of the prague spring, formed the opposition in the 1970s and 1980s. i myself had to go into exile, i worked as an editor for voice of america in washington, among other things, and yet social democracy is still denounced as some kind of post-communist party. i would therefore like to know, commissioner, how the commission intends to ensure that the debate on the past is not used in this way for political and ideological purposes in the present.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate my colleague adamou, from the heart as a doctor and as a member of parliament, on the great work he has done on this report. the topic of transplantation and donation can sometimes be controversial. the reason is clear, on the one hand we have to take into account the ethical issues and on the other hand we should not allow the progress in medicine to stop and therefore the possibility of helping the person or not even giving the possibility of helping the person. i very much welcome the fact that the report is based on the same pillars as mine. first, legal instruments that must guarantee that organ donation remains a gift, not a trade. it is good that we have standards, but we should have standards that do not reduce the level of legislation and the possibilities in the individual member states. the second pillar, as in other areas, requires cooperation between the member states. third pillar, no action is possible without cooperation with citizens, which is why i welcome the need for increased awareness and greater transparency. the common objective, and this is what the adama report aims to achieve, is to eliminate illegal trade at all costs. all these conditions are fulfilled by the report of mr adamou.
i thank my colleagues for supporting all the proposals of the european people's party concerning both europol and research. we were disappointed that europol had underestimated the monitoring of international organ trafficking. in europe too, children are being lost to organ trafficking, and not only china, but moldova is a country where people's organs are being bought for ransom and then sold to europeans on the black market at high prices, and so of course europol has to monitor this situation. international transplant tourism will not be prevented unless the coordination of transplant programmes in the union is improved. this shall be preceded by an agreement on a uniform procedure for informed consent to organ donation. i also consider it unethical and irresponsible to attempt to transfer human embryos. on the other hand, clinical research on adult stem cells has been doing very well in tissue replacement, such as heart. and it's not in conflict with respect for the uniqueness of the human being. our report is a strong signal to the commission, which will soon be submitting a proposal for a new binding directive.
in writing. the report by mrs bárbara dührkop dührkop on crossborder cooperation in the fight against terrorism and crossborder crime (a6-0099/2008) is very important in two respects: firstly, in terms of the need to combat these phenomena effectively, and secondly, in terms of the protection of civil rights and freedoms. it should therefore be assessed with great sensitivity. i shall now turn to amendment no 4, which the european parliament should add to the proposal submitted to the council for a decision. it states, inter alia, that special categories of data relating to racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, beliefs, membership of a political party, sexual orientation or health status of persons should be processed only where strictly necessary and proportionate to the purpose of the specific case and in accordance with specific security measures. i see a significant potential problem here. who and how will decide what is necessary and appropriate? what big brother? or an anonymous police officer for whom protecting human rights may be a completely secondary concern? and how much do you need the health status or sexual orientation of people relevant to counterterrorism? not only that, but i recommend that the draft report as it stands be rejected, since a much more precise initial draft is needed.
for the group gue/ngl. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as shadow rapporteur, i am very pleased that we have solved the main problems that have prevented the further implementation of the galileo system. i would like to emphasise the important contribution of the rapporteur, mrs barsi-pataky, whose erudition and diplomatic tact helped to negotiate the compromise text. i say this as a participant in the trilogue with the council and the commission, which mrs niebler has conducted for parliament, and i think very successfully. this is not the first time i've spoken about galileo. i will not deny that this is not only an ambitious and costly project, but also - or for that very reason - controversial for several of my colleagues in the group. but given my experience in space, i am still convinced that we as europe are on the right track. but the best argument is certainly the fastest and best functioning of galileo. after failing to rely on a consortium of private companies, a visionary solution was finally found. should we, as europe, have given up the chance to be at the forefront of technology? should we have rejected the possibility of increasing productivity, improving safety in all modes of transport, saving fuel, speeding up the recovery from industrial and other accidents and the other benefits that galileo brings? my belief is that it doesn't. the text also answers frequently asked questions, such as those on the protection of personal data, privacy or the guarantees of fair competition. there is also room for smes to achieve at least 40% of subcontracting. yes, galileo is not cheap, but on the other hand it should create some 140 000 new jobs in the member states of the union. and i would venture to say that when galileo goes live, the private sector will come back and want to profit from the project as well. and finally, i have, so to speak, invited the office of oversight for galilee to come to us in prague. this interest is ongoing and the invitation is valid. the czech republic, as one of the union's smaller countries, sees both its opportunity and its future in the galileo project.
ladies and gentlemen, let me turn to the question of where the european office for the supervision of the galileo global navigation satellite system should be located. my answer is that the czech republic is the best prepared country to join, and moreover the only member state where no european agency is located. prague has a strategic location in the heart of europe and has a specific location for the new headquarters in the building of the current ministry of information technology and in the former military complex in klecany. moreover, the czech republic is a highly secure state and the level of science and research is at least comparable to that of the advanced states of the european union. in the czech republic, a project has been running since 2001 which deals with four applications of the system for railways, roads, airports, and dangerous goods. a project run by the czech technical university is working on a ground-based receiver that would be compatible with both the american and russian navigation systems. prague is also a well-established and beautiful european congress centre.
china's courtship in africa is about military cooperation, strategic commodity trading, big investments, and building a huge market for chinese products, but it's also about building infrastructure. trade has increased fivefold since 2000 and is expected to reach $100 billion soon, even though the west is still the source of up to two-thirds of africa's trade earnings, so far. china's unconditional policy is based on non-interference and economic comparative advantage. it's about exporting cheap goods and weapons for raw materials. investments and long-term contracts have the hallmarks of a long-term, well-thought-out chinese strategy that has no mercy for africa. chinese influence represents a dangerous example for african states of a totalitarian and yet market-corrupt model with no respect for human beings and human rights, regardless of the environment. china's desire for raw materials for unconditional arms deliveries to africa is a growing obstacle to achieving the millennium development goals. we need to force china to take on co-responsibility for development policy, for reducing poverty, for promoting sustainable growth. after all, china is also a permanent member of the un security council and therefore has a responsibility for developments in africa. i condemn china's support for the sudanese regime. i support dialogue with china to coordinate progress in africa so that poverty is reduced and not deepened, but i don't hold out much hope. but we must not give up and we must stop the plundering of resources and help africa to stand on its own feet economically. we must insist on our strategy based on a trade policy conditional on respect for human rights and environmental protection. and may god help us to do so.
ladies and gentlemen, i represent in this parliament the citizens of the czech republic, who have initiated bilateral visa negotiations between certain member states and the united states. i want to strongly protest against the unwarranted criticism of the european commission towards my country's foreign policy. the commission has thus arrogantly exceeded its factual powers and has also undermined the principle of subsidiarity and the equality of the members of the union. i would also like to point out that the czech republic's bilateral visa negotiations were only a response to the commission's zero results in abolishing us visas for new member states. ladies and gentlemen, the commission should be aware that, although it is a high-ranking bureaucracy, it is subject in many areas to the political will of both this parliament and the individual member states. finally, if the european commission wants to be the arbiter of eu air safety with regard to us visas, it should not condemn those countries which seek to thwart terrorist plans by exchanging information, but should instead criticise those which deal with representatives of libya or hamas, for example, without any restrictions.
ladies and gentlemen, my constituents in the czech republic share my concern that the amount of personal data and information required by the united states for the issuance of visas is intolerable in the stated interest of fighting terrorism. at the same time, i would like to point out that the european union has not been sufficiently active in promoting the legitimate interests of its new member states in the area of visa-free travel with the united states. the concern not to complicate visa relations for the original member countries of the union only added to the individual efforts of the czech representation. moreover, although the government in prague denies it, there is an all too conspicuous coincidence of the willingness of the us to cancel visas for our citizens and at the same time the attempt to obtain the consent of the czech side to the location of the anti-missile radar base. that this is a pure coincidence and the czech government's willingness to do so is not without the help of the us, that's obvious. logically, then, the suspicion of political trade with the sovereignty of the country.
ladies and gentlemen, the key idea in today's debate is equality, equal conditions, equal treatment. in the case of visas for travel to the united states, there is a disparity almost twenty years after the fall of communism and four years after the entry of the new member states from central and eastern europe. these new member countries and greece still require visas to travel to the united states. i think this is a disgrace, but it's not a disgrace to the european union, it's a disgrace to the united states. democracies that do this to their, they say, closest allies, like poland, the czech republic, hungary, other countries. as regards the negotiations and the way they are conducted, i fully agree with my colleagues that the european union must act together. because that is the only way we will achieve equality, equality between the member countries of the european union and between the european union and the united states. this includes issues such as data transfer, personal data protection, etc.
mr president, i am glad that what we have always said here has been proved, namely that no contractual obligations, no eu legislation, no eu competence have been breached and that bilateral negotiations are possible alongside multilateral or pan-european negotiations. i am here, my friends, to defend myself against the accusation that my country, the czech republic, lacks solidarity and against the accusation that it lacks transparency. none of this is true. we strictly adhere to our contractual obligations, to community law and to the principle of subsidiarity, and we do so as necessary, that is, no more and no less. and i would ask some of my colleagues not to give lessons on europeanism, because we europeans are all the same here, no one is more european, no one is less european.
mr president, allow me to add to yesterday's speech in the debate on the report on the launch of one of the largest joint european projects, the galileo navigation system. i have great respect for the work of the rapporteurs who have found a compromise solution both within our parliament and with the council and the commission, and that is why we were able to end the lengthy negotiations today. we are now also faced with the decision on the seat of this office, and i want to emphasize again that the czech republic is ready and, moreover, the ideal candidate for this seat. i also believe that the promise of the new eu institutions being located in the new member states will finally be fulfilled.
mr. chairman, i want to respond to yesterday's discussion. most of us have warned that china's hunger for african oil and arms trade is fueling corruption, dictatorships and deepening poverty, not to mention the billions of chinese products flooding africa, hopelessly competing with african manufacturing. this policy of "no strings attached" is therefore an increasing obstacle to achieving the millennium development goals to eradicate hunger and poverty in developing countries. i was surprised when commissioner michel, with a little bit of emotion, warned us that if the commission had political power, it would pull together with china and defend china's right to pursue its own foreign policy without conditions, even though china is a member of the un security council and therefore has a responsibility as a union for developments in the world. i therefore object to such a position by a member of the commission of the european union.
in writing. one of the few countries in the world that does not have a name officially recognized by all other countries is the fyrom. although the republic has instituted various ethnic and religious holidays, it still maintains an abnormal bilateral treaty on the status of u.s. citizens. the success is the action against organized crime and corruption that the government has achieved despite the inability of the occupying power in kosovo to do anything about the problem. i find it incomprehensible that there has not yet been a consensus on the possibility of citizens abroad participating in elections. in the case of the referendum in montenegro, these citizens were discriminated against, and in the elections in macedonia, the eu is hesitant. article 31 of the report welcomes the intervention of the state authorities against a large arms depot. the reports of mistreatment of terrorist detainees in the second part of the paragraph i have to consider a bad joke. i don't know of any case where the police have politely asked terrorists to surrender. the specificity of the negotiations with fyrom is that, in addition to the non-standard situation with the country name and the treaty with the usa, which is contrary to all rules of international agreements, there is also the issue of settling disputes with neighbours. here i think we should insist on settling these disputes before the country joins the european union. since some amendments may change the meaning of the report, our vote on the whole will depend on the adoption of these amendments.
the author. - madam commissioner, mr minister, mr president of the council, allow me to address the president of the council first on a matter which is not related to my question. i would like to complain here that i have not found that while the police in all countries work to enable politicians or members of parliament to do their job, the french police are trying to prevent meps from doing their job and i have to complain here that i was prevented from entering by the police officer outside the gates of this institution even after presenting my identity card because of the alleged protection of the demonstration taking place outside the gates of parliament. i consider it a scandal and i hope that this matter will be brought before parliament. it's not related, of course, but if i hadn't run for parliament, i wouldn't be speaking here, for your information. i am authorised, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, to refer a question addressed to both the council and the commission concerning the forthcoming meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity and biosafety in bonn. the key issue is to clarify the objectives of this conference for both the commission and the council. we are also interested to know whether the council and the commission are planning to involve members of the european parliament in this conference. i must say that our committee is not only interested in decisions and individual agreements, but is also very interested in their implementation, that is, their practical implementation. i would like to ask whether the european union and the european institutions are aware of their leading role in this area, in the fight against the loss of biodiversity. i would like to ask whether we are aware of the need to provide financial support for all these programmes and agreements, and that their implementation cannot be achieved without clear financial support. i also hope that the commission and the council are aware of the impact of water scarcity in the mediterranean region and the impact of drought, the impact of climate change on biodiversity as such. the committee would like to know whether special attention will be paid to marine and coastal biodiversity and whether the commission and the council are aware of the importance of involving regional and local authorities, but also business operators, in this issue and in the fight against biodiversity loss. if we recognize the importance of sustainable forestry and crop production with a special emphasis on sustainable biofuel production, which is becoming a very hot topic. the production of biofuels, as you know, is part of the climate package that we're discussing, and its sustainable use and sustainable development is a very important issue. on the other hand, we know that it has a very negative impact on biodiversity.
as many speakers have said, carbon dioxide is a major, if not the major, player in what's called ecological pricing, and it's being presented as the cause of climate change. i want to point out the fact that there is scientific evidence that carbon dioxide increases in the atmosphere not before the earth warms, but after the warming, which correlates with solar activity, so the warming is more a consequence than a cause. the main emitter of carbon dioxide after warming is the oceans. i am not against reducing carbon dioxide emissions from human activities, but i think we have to accept responsibility for pollution that has health and other consequences rather than climate change. so just call things by their right names.
colleagues, this week we discussed china-africa relations and chad is just one example of oil being a reason to buy weapons. if we do not press china, which is a member of the un security council, to change its foreign and trade policy from so-called unconditional to conditional and to pull together with us, then we can only cry that we do not have enough resources to provide adequate aid to the hundreds of thousands of refugees and the dead and wounded.
for the group gue/ngl georgia has had three presidents since 1991: the dissident gamsakhurdia, the apparatchik shevardnadze and now the american protégé saakashvili. it's hard to say which one was worse. when mr. saakashvili was here, he gave us one idea, and that was to buy georgian wines because they are the wines of freedom. i don't know if chvanchary, stalin's favorite wine, is the wine of freedom, but in any case, the situation in georgia is bad. a quarter of the nation has emigrated, 1 300 000 georgians are working in the russian federation, and this fact alone shows that it is necessary to rely on the two countries to resolve their problems with each other, because a new president is taking office in the kremlin, mr medvedev. i think that he needs to be given time to implement what he has promised, which is to lend a helping hand to georgia and help resolve a situation that is already very bad.
ladies and gentlemen, i expect the upcoming transatlantic council to focus on finding solutions to prevent further food price increases. i expect a reaction to their exponential growth, but also to the fact that this year tens of millions of people will die and another hundred million will fall deeper into poverty. the situation where famine storms occur in developing countries and developed countries allocate food has not been caused by a natural disaster. it's the result of stupid politics on both sides of the atlantic. it seems that, because of high subsidies and import duties, food is paradoxically not grown where it can be grown the most at the lowest prices. instead of grain, the fields produce rapeseed, corn, and cane, which are processed and then dumped in the tanks of cars. it is known that the price of wheat would immediately fall by 10% and the price of maize by even 20% if states declared a moratorium on biofuels. and that's not to mention the comical fact that to produce one liter of biofuel, often more than one liter of diesel is used. ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that the transatlantic council meeting next week will make it clear whether the european union and the united states feel a real global responsibility or whether they are just talking about it in a populist way. in the face of the deadly results of current food policies, they should abolish unfair agricultural subsidies and tariffs as soon as possible, and stop promoting pointless biofuels. only then will food prices fall, and more people on the planet will have a chance to live without fear of starvation. and only then will we have a true global responsibility.
today we are discussing two reports which are closely linked, the annual report on the state of human rights in the world and the report on the european union's election observation missions. the right to free elections and democracy is a basic universal human right recognised, inter alia, by the international covenant on civil and political rights and the united nations millennium declaration. for this reason too, the promotion of democracy is a key objective of the european union's foreign policy. however, for this support to be effective, it is necessary to consolidate our common foreign and security policy and to make the european union's electoral observation missions more effective. i therefore support the recommendations made by our rapporteurs. i also believe that, for example, the electoral process, including the pre-electoral and post-electoral phases, should be integrated into the political dialogue with the third countries concerned. the electoral process, not only the electoral act itself, but especially the pre-electoral and post-electoral phases should also aim at strengthening and consolidating democratic institutions, i.e. the rule of law, the independence of the media and the judiciary, civil society, etc. i am convinced, also on the basis of my personal experience of observer missions, that the european parliament should and can play a much more effective and important role in this process than it has so far. in conclusion, allow me, as the representative of the czech republic, to make a further comment on the question of ratification of the rome statute. i would like to call on the members of parliament and the senators of the czech parliament, as i did last year, to ratify the rome statute as soon as possible. the fact that the czech republic, the country that is to preside over the european union in the first half of next year, is the only country in the european union that has not yet done so, i think is a great shame for this, unfortunately, my motherland.
for the group gue/ngl today, the olympic flame travels to every continent in the world, bringing to life the message of sport that we owe to the greeks. they were the first to understand the purifying role that sport can play in human culture. sport teaches people to wrestle without harming, injuring or even killing each other, sport teaches fair play and offers everyone equal opportunities and equal rights. but modern times have also made sport a business and an environment where the same negative influences that we see almost everywhere are permeating - money, corruption, lobbying, racial prejudice and, more recently, various means of support - are damaging the purity of sport and diminishing its positive potential to educate young people and to overcome barriers between nations and races. i therefore welcome the work of the commission on the white paper on sport and i appreciate mr mavrommatis' report. both documents highlight the need to protect sport as a cultural asset. i personally would like to stress even more the need to promote sport also at amateur level, to create conditions for recreational sport, which is not easy, especially in large urban areas, but also its financial accessibility, which is a limiting factor for the socially weaker. sport gives children and young people an alternative way of spending their free time and being active. in this spirit, they serve all generations, so we should not forget about older citizens and look for other ways for them to get involved in sport. sport is a means of improving physical fitness, but it also has a positive effect on the human psyche. professional sports are just the tip of the pyramid, the base of which should be the sporting activity of as many people as possible on this planet.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the relevant community institutions and bodies should urgently address the serious phenomenon of the emergence of paramilitary nationalist organisations in some member states. i am thinking in particular of the czech republic and hungary. as you know, in these countries, the so-called national guard was created with the tolerance of the state authorities. these far-right organisations are supposed to promote nationalism, racism, intimidation of other nationalities and left-wing citizens. this was made quite clear a few days ago in prague. while the hungarian guard is mainly contributing to the bad relations between hungary and the surrounding nations, the czech national guard, also chauvinistic, is becoming an instrument of intimidation not only of the left but of all democratically minded citizens. the security of these organisations, whose existence is incompatible with europe as a project of friendship between peoples, is reinforced by the fact that both former and current members of the armed forces of the state are joining them. i emphasize these facts.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs locatelli, for her very thorough and detailed work on this report, which deals with one of the main strategic technologies for our energy future. i really welcome the initiative of the hydrogen and fuel cells technology platform, the key player in achieving success. the concept of jtis was introduced in the seventh framework programme as a new mechanism to implement long-term, public-private partnership in research at european level. up to now, four jtis have been set up in the field of innovative medicines, embedded systems and so on. with this proposal, the fifth jti will be set up in the field of fuel cells and hydrogen. faced with challenges such as electricity security, energy dependency and the often discussed mitigation of climate change, the eu needs to boost the development and deployment of cleaner and more efficient energy technologies. fuel cells and hydrogen technologies have the potential to contribute significantly towards these goals. the non-existence of a joint european strategy has until now disqualified europe from keeping up with the asian countries and the united states. as regards amendments, i support those which have been tabled in order to strengthen the proposal and to provide coherence with the other jtis. from my own experience and communication with smes, i especially support amendments that put more emphasis on the innovative potential of smes and the specific barriers that they encounter, for example in reduced access to research infrastructure. they also need to stress the importance of breakthrough-oriented research. as was mentioned in the implementation plan, especially in the early stages research should form an important element of the activities of the jtis. in my view, this joint initiative of the public and private sector is the right path to take in order to become more competitive with the usa and other countries which have a tradition and development strategy for hydrogen research.
for the ppe-de group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the specific situation of the outermost regions certainly deserves increased attention from the european union. it is undeniable that european policy on the outermost regions has had some positive effects so far, but the fact is that there are still structural difficulties to be addressed in the future. however, it must be borne in mind that some of the problems of the outermost regions cannot be solved, since they are sui generis problems arising from the fact that they are very remote territories of an insular nature, with the exception of french guiana, which has its geographical and structural specificities, which we will not change. i would therefore like to warn against too much social engineering from the centre. in the case of the outermost regions, the possibilities for applying the principle of subsidiarity need to be considered more than ever. it is undeniable that the outermost regions need different conditions in terms of public aid and internal market regulation. european legislation should take this into account, allowing the specific nature of these regions to be preserved and mitigating the restrictive circumstances. however, the effectiveness of complex european financial programmes in this case is questionable. state and regional aid with local knowledge is, in my view, a much more effective way of supporting the outermost regions. i believe that european structural policy should be guided by the idea that funds should be directed primarily to the poorest regions where they are most needed, whether it be an island, a mountain or an uninhabited area.
mr president, the globalisation of our market requires strong, clear and easily enforceable consumer rights, and i am pleased that the commission is working very successfully on this. in my report last year, i already pointed out that both the european trust mark and the consumer charter will increase trust in online commerce through model customer contracts and better complaint mechanisms. but the european consumer ombudsman is not going to help us, i think. rather, we need to strengthen the financial capacity of existing consumer organisations and inspection bodies in the member states, as they are increasingly detecting dangerous products from asia, in particular toys, children's shoes and sports equipment. what citizens also expect from us is better handling of cross-border complaints, as everyone here has said. it is therefore important to harmonise the rules between member states. however, class action lawsuits are controversial, more advantageous for lawyers, but costly for consumers and businesses. i therefore welcome the fact that the commission will probably first of all assess the experience of the german or british model and only then consider how to proceed and not allow the socialists to be pushed into a dead end. but i want to point out that i have great respect for the work of our rapporteur, as well as the committee on the revision of consumer law.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i join those who wish to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done, for a report which highlights one of the pillars of the european community, the european social model. i appreciate the emphasis in the report on issues such as improving social inclusion, fighting poverty and emphasising social inclusion in employment policies. it is welcome that the rapporteur rightly also stresses the need to promote gender equality in employment. despite these positive points, from the point of view of our political group, the draft report emphasises the principle of flexibility more than the actual guarantee of good employment opportunities and the actual right to good work. i understand, mr president, that it is difficult to find a compromise between these two terms. i regret that of the many proposals put forward by our political group, only one has been accepted by the committee and in these circumstances i must state that, despite all the compromises we have made, we will not be able to support the final report. still, let me say it's been an honor working with the reporter. the future, the fate of the concept of flexibility, the new social experience and the citizens of the european union will show us who is closer to the truth in seeking and implementing the project of a social europe.
first of all, i have to say that i admire anna van lancker for not giving in to the amendments and for not allowing the report she drew up to be watered down. i would be even more critical, because i think the renewed lisbon strategy is doing very little. if unemployment is not falling significantly, if the jobs being created are not of good quality, if we in the european union countries are tolerating people who are working to be below the poverty line, then something is clearly wrong. the answers to the questions put to us by the workers' and trade union organisations were not even in the green paper. and all we have to do is look at the relevant conventions of the international labour organization. i would remind you that, with some exceptions, the most important of these have been ratified by almost all the member states. the unease among european trade unionists caused by the recent decision of the european court of justice in the viking, laval and rüffert cases is understandable. i would therefore recommend less leather and more respect for what has been achieved in the last decades, especially in the advanced countries of the european union.
there are basically only two ways to solve the problem of unemployment. it's one of the ways that people go after work, and the other way is that work goes after people. the second way seems to me to be the more sensible one, because all the means that were used in the first form, the shared or flexible working hours, the flexibility of working hours and the like, are all things that did not lead to the desired result. i think the second way is more promising and i think the european union has a pretty good basis for it. and i think one of them is to create a european public sector, so that the european union can also start to act as a job creator.
i would like to draw attention to two areas. the first area is transport, because about a third of the population in the european union has mobility problems, and i think that in order for people to have equal opportunities in terms of access to information, jobs and so on, a lot needs to be done to introduce a more barrier-free standard in transport. the second area is the mental disabled. i think it would be good to have a review of the white paper on mental health protection, because a large proportion of the population of the european union suffers from stress burdens, which also actually imply disadvantages in terms of adaptation in the labour market.
i support the information campaigns on the harmfulness of tobacco and i support the european parliament's proposal for a multiannual plan with 80 million euros, which will be deducted from the aid for european tobacco growers and will not be a burden on the union budget. the production of raw tobacco in the union is marginal, barely about 4% of world production, but we are the world's main importer of raw tobacco and rely for most of our needs on supplies from third countries where, compared to european tobacco, local tobacco is subject to less stringent controls. i must, however, object to the subsidization of tobacco production in europe. it is both a matter of principle and a matter of public funds allocated to this area being better used elsewhere.
allow me to continue our politically charged debate from yesterday. i did not support the socialists' proposal on collective complaints because i consider it responsible to wait for the results of impact studies, especially as regards the success of collective complaints compared to their costs, especially for consumers. that is why i want to object today to the incorrect statements made by mrs gebhardt in our debate yesterday, which give the electorate the impression that only socialists protect the interests of consumers, as opposed to populists who protect the interests of industry. it's purposive political rhetoric, demagoguery that has nothing to do with reality, and i'm guarding against it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the three regulations we are discussing here are closely linked to the free movement of goods, services and persons. when the four freedoms were set out in 1957, it was probably unknown what the transitional provisions would be for the new countries of the european union. of course, in this work we come across the limitations imposed by the accession treaties of the ten new member states. these countries, even after the opening of the schengen border, have transitional provisions in the area of the transport of persons and goods, which can be summarised as follows: prohibition or restriction of cabotage. especially when discussing emissions reduction and freight efficiency, some of the requirements of the proposed regulations sound a bit futuristic to us. i remember that in the people's democratic republic, the mining centers were open and the transport of empty trucks was affected. i think we're going to be forced to go back to a similar regulation in some form. it is right in principle that in the common area we should seek to harmonise the application of the existing rules alongside common cmr documents. if market access is simplified, cabotage is partially relaxed and the basic working conditions in the sector are harmonised, both for the exercise of the profession and for the access of the individual states to the implementation of eu regulations, this package will meet with the lively approval of both entrepreneurs and workers in the sector. on the basis of the above remarks, the gue/ngl group therefore agrees with the above proposals.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is one of the key partners in space today. this is also reflected in the ambitious plan to launch the galileo satellite navigation system. all systems using satellite should use the same dedicated radio bands 1980 to 2010 mhz and 2170 to 2200 mhz for communication. it is logical that this directive seeks to unify the fragmented national rules and to establish a uniform methodology for the management of the provision of communication frequencies. these frequencies should be the same for all the states of the union for the satellite concerned. this is to eliminate harmful interference and at the same time to allow the sector to develop in a coherent way in the area concerned satellite communications . given that the european union currently covers 40% of the world market in satellite communications, it is clear to us that a common non-discriminatory approach can significantly strengthen the union's significant position in this segment. we believe that the proposed solution will allow for a much better development of both the technical and economic components of communications. only a common solution for all 27 countries can overcome the existing national administrative barriers. the sector offers the development of skilled labour and it is therefore desirable to support this segment. the whole gue/ngl group supports the directive.
mr president, the report we are debating today is a symbol of the arrogance and mainstream blindness of this parliament. it is playing dangerously with the suppression of freedom, democracy and solidarity with the weakest. there is nothing worse for freedom of thought than to claim that only one scientific opinion is correct and to condemn the others. there is nothing worse for democracy than to politically sanctify such an opinion and, as a result, to want to control people's lives. and for solidarity with the weakest, there's nothing worse than pouring food into the tanks of cars and watching people starve to death. such a policy will not save the planet, it will only benefit the producers of subsidized beet and windmill components. since the report attempts to stifle debate, dictates scientific conclusions and ignores the needs of the poorest, i cannot support it in any way. and i believe that the interim committee on climate change should be dissolved immediately. in conclusion, i would like to say that i come from the czech republic and i am proud that president václav klaus, unlike other politicians, has not been warmed up by the flow of ideas and has not turned his brain green.
mr president, i must say that i am able to accept this argumentation for all amendments with the exception of 15. i do not know why 15 is not acceptable for voting just now.
it is no longer acceptable that serious crimes against the environment and public health should still be regarded as a criminal offence in some countries, such as italy and cyprus. that is why i supported the directive which requires all countries to amend their criminal penalties within two years, despite the reservations of the eurosceptics. on the other hand, the czech republic and many other countries will have to introduce criminal liability for legal entities, an institution historically unknown to post-socialist countries, and we will have to decide whether to choose the german model, where the offences of legal entities are dealt with by administrative justice, or to follow the path of true criminal liability following the example of france, britain or slovenia and whether the legal entity as a whole will be punished or the management. i'm afraid the two years we have to implement it won't be enough.
for the eurosceptics, today, 21 may, is another nail in their coffin, because we voted a joint decision with the council to allow the transfer of rights of 27 countries in part of the telecommunications spectrum to the european union, and this demonstrates the importance of the european union. what the member states cannot do successfully, they entrust to the union in the interests of the european citizens. today, it is about removing the legislative obstacles to the further development of mobile satellite services for crisis communications, to save the lives, health and property of half a billion citizens. the system already works for ships and aircraft, but modern technology could offer additional functions such as two-way multimedia transmission, mobile tv broadcasting or broadband internet access. however, this decision should not be the norm in the telecommunications sector. the sovereign rights to the other parts of the spectrum remain in the hands of national regulators. i want to believe that in eurosceptic countries like the czech republic and the uk, the media is giving enough attention to this issue, which is good news for the citizens.
i would like to explain my vote on the report by karl heinz florenz. i voted against this report in the final vote and i want to emphasise as chairman of the committee on the environment that it was not because i did not realise the seriousness of the subject or because i wanted to reject or question the rapporteur's work in any way. i disagreed with several statements and formulations that not only seemed politically incorrect to me, but in some cases, untrue. i also consider the decision of the tabling office to reject a proposal without justification to be unacceptable, scandalous and in some cases erroneous. thank you for understanding.
i also could not vote for the report by mr florenz because anything that is labelled and presented as scientific fact must be presented with a feeling for the scientific views of both groups of scientists, those who agree and those who disagree. the wording of the report is presented as a clear scientific consensus. it's not like that. the group of opponents is also significant. the precautionary principle was frequently stressed in the debate. please, let's use it against the overly strict and unambiguous conclusions of climate change policy. as a geologist, i can assure you that the earth has warmed many times in the past by much more than the demonised 2 degrees celsius and nothing tragic has happened. after all, we as a species are living in nothing but continuous climate change.
mr president, for many years i have said that a privileged partnership agreement between the union and turkey would have been more beneficial than a promise of accession to the european union. the evaluation report unfortunately confirms that, even though accession negotiations have been opened, the copenhagen criteria are still not met. and it's not just one area, but it's freedom of religion, minority rights, equal opportunities especially for women, corruption, the kurdish and cypriot issues and of course the influence of the military on the running of the state. however, as the rapporteur has said, i welcome the government's efforts to make progress, but it is not visible. turkey, on the other hand, has banned political parties, has a new article 331 to prosecute writers and intellectuals for insulting turkishness, and there is also a rise in politically or religiously motivated hostility and violence. the murder of hrant dink and other murders have not yet been solved. however, i appreciate the balance and honesty of today's report.
in writing. the european parliament's draft resolution cites a number of documents. however, the basic finding is missing. this country has been a candidate country since 1963. the terms of the opening of negotiations are being discussed all the time. the 1993 copenhagen criteria are not to be found in the opening words of the motion for a resolution. if we look at the commission's 2007 progress report on turkey, we find that despite the progress made, the implementation of the adopted laws on national minorities is still not at the appropriate level. if we consider that about 10% of turkey's working population is working in eu countries, we see that the relationships have been very extensive for many years. the thing that surprises us is that the application of the rules in the economic field is still very controversial. these rules are formally included in turkish legislation, but in dealing with specific cases we encounter a very 'non-european' approach. turkey's progress is significant, but in a number of chapters the gap between turkey and most eu countries (including the balkan states) has not yet narrowed significantly. the specific influence of the military on the country's political system and the strong position of sunni islam are only the most visible features of turkish society that distinguish it from eu states. the report is fairly faithful to the company's current situation, but article 12 of the resolution is not balanced. however, the gue/ngl will not vote against.
ladies and gentlemen, let me first express my sincere condolences to the tens of thousands of survivors of the devastating cyclone nargis in myanmar/burma. i would also like to express my full solidarity with the hundreds of thousands of people who have been left without food and shelter following this natural disaster. in this context, i would like to commend the european commission for its rapid humanitarian response and also the swift action of commissioner michel. unfortunately, i cannot appreciate the actions of the burmese government and authorities. to prevent our own people, the victims of this terrible disaster, from receiving humanitarian aid from abroad is inhuman and cruel. so i would like to call on the burmese government, on the burmese authorities, to fully open the borders for foreign aid and to allow goods and personnel of foreign humanitarian organizations into the country. in this context, i would also like to call on china, india, singapore and other countries in the region, including asean, to use their influence to push for burma to be opened to foreign aid. with a natural disaster of this magnitude, no country on this planet can help itself.
for the pse group. mr president, commissioner, mr lenarčiči, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all, on behalf of the socialist group, to express my deepest condolences to the tens of thousands of survivors of the terrible earthquake that struck the province of sichuan. i would also like to express my full solidarity with the hundreds of thousands of people who have been left homeless or forced to leave their homes following this disaster. we were here a moment ago discussing the situation in burma and criticizing the totally unacceptable behaviour of the burmese junta. china, unlike burma, is to be commended. china immediately appealed to the international community for help and opened its borders to help. i would also like to thank, as my colleague did, the openness of the chinese authorities, both nationally and in sichuan province, in informing the public, both domestically and internationally, about the disaster and, of course, the rescue efforts. for example, part of this information policy included the admission that there were 32 sources of radioactive radiation beneath the rubble, along with tens of thousands of victims. mr lenarčič and the commissioner here informed us of the scale of the humanitarian aid that the european union has offered and provided to china. i would like to thank both the commission and the council for the speed with which they have acted, and at the same time urge them to continue to be ready to respond flexibly to any requests for further assistance from our chinese partners, not only in humanitarian aid but also in any assistance for the reconstruction of the affected areas.
the chairman of the council. - thank you, madam president. i would also like to thank you for the question. on behalf of the council, i would like to thank you for this question on the global ban or the global agreement on the prohibition of weapons containing uranium. of course, honourable members are no doubt aware of the fact that such an agreement has not yet been reached. there is no multilateral agreement governing depleted uranium munitions. but it is also known that there is no consensus within the council. a debate on the effects of depleted uranium weapons was recently held at the united nations. there, at the end of last year, the first committee of the united nations general assembly adopted a resolution entitled 'effects of the use of weapons and ammunition containing depleted uranium', and it has already been mentioned that the eu member states voted differently, i would say very differently, on this resolution. five voted for, four against, the rest abstained. this is the state of the council now, quite obviously i would say. let me now try to answer briefly the questions that have been specifically asked. as regards the first question, concerning the european parliament resolution on biological weapons and certain conventional weapons, i would like to stress that the european union has been, is and will continue to be very active in international efforts to implement the biological and toxin weapons convention. among other things, it played a key role in the second review conference in 2006 and will remain active throughout the implementation of the programme until the next review conference scheduled for 2011. as regards the convention on conventional weapons, the european union and its member states are also actively involved in the current negotiations where the humanitarian implications of cluster munitions are being discussed. member states have committed themselves to negotiate a legally binding instrument to address all aspects of cluster munitions by the end of this year. on the second question, let me clarify that depleted uranium munitions have not been included in the european union's strategy on weapons of mass destruction. there is still debate as to whether such ammunition can even be classed as a weapon of mass destruction. some believe that depleted uranium is already covered by the convention on conventional weapons, while others believe that protocol 3 to that convention should be extended to cover the issue of depleted uranium missiles and warheads. the discussions are still ongoing. as regards the third question, i would point out that the definition of military equipment, including munitions, used in european union operations is a matter for the member states and, in the absence of a multilateral agreement on this issue, i cannot provide any further information on the use of depleted uranium. fourthly, as regards the security of the soldiers and civilians involved in european union operations, i would point out that the operation commander, within the framework of the operational plan approved by the council of the european union, is responsible for ensuring that security and must take the measures he considers necessary, taking account of operational constraints. in the case of european union civilian missions, however, such responsibility shall lie with the head of mission, under the authority of the civilian operation commander. the last question concerning the dialogue between the council of the european union and the united states, ngos and individuals, i can only say for the moment that this issue has not been raised in the talks with the united states so far. nor has there been any dialogue with the other actors mentioned in the question. i shall certainly be interested to hear further discussion of this matter. thank you so much.
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, parliament's resolution, adopted in november 2006, calls on the european union and the member states to commit themselves to extending the scope of protocol iii to the convention on certain conventional weapons with a view to ending the use of depleted uranium munitions. i would remind this house that parliament is calling for action which, as you know, is beyond the competence of the commission insofar as the community is not a party to the convention. furthermore, under the treaties, the community institutions have no competence in the military field. i would not, however, like to give the impression that the commission is indifferent to the problems connected with the production, storage and use of weapons covered by the ccac or to the question of inhumane weapons in general, quite the contrary. the commission is fully committed to implementing the joint action adopted last year by the council, which calls for the universality of the ccta and its protocols. three seminars were held this year, one for latin america and the caribbean in santo domingo in march and the other two for african countries in lomé last month. following these seminars, the dominican republic has already announced its intention to ratify the convention in the very near future and suriname has declared its willingness to make the necessary progress towards ratification. the commission also supports the implementation of the biological weapons convention and is following initiatives to create a new instrument to address the humanitarian concerns raised by cluster munitions, both in the context of the ccac and the oslo process. the commission has also taken action in response to problems caused by explosive munitions. for example, in 2006 €5 million was disbursed to help remove explosive war debris in lebanon. as regards the second question, the available scientific evidence does not support the claim that depleted uranium munitions pose a significant health risk to the civilian population in the affected combat zones or to military personnel serving or who have served in those zones. this opinion reflects the results of studies conducted by the un, who, iaea, and a group of experts convened by the european commission under article 31 of the euratom treaty which concluded that, and i quote: 'based on the information available, exposure to depleted uranium could not cause detectable health effects under realistic assumptions about the doses that could be received'. the commission is prepared to review the matter. the commission will also continue to ensure the health of its staff and to comply with who guidelines in the event of deployment in conditions of potential exposure to depleted uranium. as regards the dialogue with euromil, the commission is naturally prepared to engage in dialogue with all representatives of civil society. finally, as regards the last three questions, the commission does not at present envisage making any financial commitments in these areas.
for the ppe-de group. weapons containing depleted uranium pose a huge burden on the environment. for anyone who's ever seen the consequences of using them, the debate about unproven consequences is utterly absurd. dirty bullets cut the armor of the most advanced tank into many centimeters of pieces, they have tremendous destructive power. they affect human health. they kill without mercy. there is no doubt that the production, trade, use, and storage of these drugs must be stopped. this parliament, the union, is building, step by step, a european armed force, a european defence. in the future, we will be a partner of nato and the united states. that's why we need to be a credible partner. to stand up and shout, "i want a moratorium on depleted uranium", is ridiculous. as well as asking the council to do an impact study. first, we must find a political agreement between the member states, france, the united kingdom and, perhaps, the czech republic. then start working with the un, working to create the basis for an international convention to ban dirty uranium. this includes the development of a gradual production ban regime acceptable to all member states as well as storage, marketing and a final date of prohibition of use. then a conference should be convened to adopt the regime and begin the process of a final ban on the weapons. we need a thorough analytical study, confirmation of side effects. but above all, we need political cooperation to gradually build political will, international recognition, consensus and decision-making. it's a process that will take years. it would be great if the european union were already a party to the new convention on all military uses and the ban on dirty uranium. but that's why we must act responsibly, not diminish its credibility by foolish shouting, professional ignorance and undone work, and not cease to be partners in such a serious game.
mr president, i ask for linguistic correction because the resolution was negotiated in the french language. in french where it reads 'notamment du hezbollah' in the first sentence of paragraph 5, it should read in english 'especially hizbollah' and in czech 'a zejména hizballáhu'. i cannot be responsible for other language versions.
i would just like to emphasize the importance of this resolution. there was no debate on it yesterday, or on the oral question. my committee has already received a reply from the commissioner and i therefore very much welcome the fact that the item has been retained on the agenda and will be voted on successfully.
as someone who was part of the european parliament's fact-finding mission to darfur and chad in 2004, i am a co-responsible political traveller. i've been in a situation where a 12-year-old raped mother, when you ask her what her child's name is, she says, "i don't know, the child doesn't have a name". and that is why we call for the ratification of the rome statute by sudan, for immediate cooperation under resolution 1593, for the immediate extradition of ali kushayba and ahmad haroon. but above all, we ask that the europeans, in their negotiations with the arab league, and especially in their negotiations with china, demand a consistent approach by china and the arab league towards sudan. these are the partners that can help us. we ask the council and the commission to inform us of their actions.
the author. - ladies and gentlemen, the lukashenka regime in belarus deserves criticism for the repressive methods it uses, for the imprisonment of political opponents, for the authoritarian methods of government, for censorship and for the isolation of the country. moreover, the lack of entry visas prevents members of the european parliament and national parliaments from seeing the situation of the country for themselves. all of these things are also the views of my faction. but i am of the opinion that human rights violations should be criticized on an absolute basis and not on the basis of political key and who is playing the game in the world at the moment. this is not right. we've been going around in circles for thousands of years, and we haven't been able to take a step toward objectivity. the romans were always right, and their chroniclers described it as an injustice when an attacked adversary had the audacity to defend himself. but back to belarus. the lukashenka regime is above all an attempt to disrespect the direction of the euro-atlantic space. lukashenko is playing in his own sand and ignoring the fact that small countries cannot do this because they are not allowed by transnational capital. you don't listen, you'll be isolated and the international community will support the opposition inside the country. that's how it works, and we all know that's how it works. lukashenko and his apparatus are acting in a way that will pay off sooner or later. belarus is in an area that is strategically important to the united states and to nato. the current administration of the united states and the governments of some other countries would very much like to bring belarus, as well as ukraine, georgia into nato and thus harm russia. our concern for human rights in belarus would not be so intense if it were not really about russia. the question is whether weakening russia is actually beneficial to global security. i believe that it can, on the contrary, set in motion forces that no one will know how to handle. russia has been holding them for thousands of years.
thank you, mr. chairman, mr. solana has not been with us for a long time and i was already worried about his health, but i see that he is healthy, that he is fine, that he did not hang himself like judas iscariot after kosovo, so i can ask him a question whether he knew that hashim taci and his comrades were trading in human organs of serbian prisoners. did he know or not?
ladies and gentlemen, in my speech i will mention one aspect of the relationship between the european union and the united states, and that is the missile defense of the united states. in my home country of the czech republic, where the radar element of this defence is to be located, two thirds of the citizens are consistently against this location. the czech public is convinced that missile defence is not only about bilateral relations between the us and the czech republic, or poland, but that missile defence and non-proliferation issues have an impact on pan-european security. i would therefore like to call again on the council to finally establish a framework for involving all eu member states in the discussion on this issue. i would also like to call on the united states not to sign any treaties at present on the deployment of its missile defence systems in europe. america and europe face a host of much more pressing issues: the fight against terrorism, the security of energy supplies, global warming, afghanistan, and many others. so let's work together, and i stress, together in partnership, to address these problems and issues that are not urgent, that are also dividing us now instead of uniting us, so let's leave that for later.
mr president, commissioner verheugen has stressed the need for welfare, and i therefore expect that the summit will focus on finding solutions to prevent food price increases. i expect a state response to the fact that tens of millions of people will starve to death this year and another hundred million will fall deeper into poverty. yet, in europe, milk is poured into the canal and beet and cane are grown in the fields and poured into the tanks of cars. because of high subsidies and import duties, it pays to grow fuel instead of grain, and it is known that the price of wheat would immediately drop by 10 percent and the price of corn by as much as 20 percent if states declared a moratorium on biofuels. mr president, i am convinced that in one week's time it will be clear in ljubljana whether the european union and the united states deserve global responsibility or whether they will continue to talk about it in a populist manner. in the face of the deadly results of the current agricultural policy, they should abolish as quickly as possible the pointless agricultural subsidies, quotas and tariffs and stop supporting biofuels.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to ask you to support the re-evaluation of the european commission decision no 318/2007, or possibly a return to the original 2005 material, following requests from breeding organisations in germany, the netherlands, belgium and the czech republic that trade in exotic birds. the amendment is intended to prohibit the importation into the union of exotic birds from the wild. the conditions for their importation are difficult to achieve in the practice of small-scale poultry farming. it is clear that the media panic over avian influenza has been used to enforce the above standard. a system of quarantine facilities is being set up in the eu to catch bird diseases that are dangerous to humans. farmers have often been credited with returning species to the wild. they respect the law on the protection of highly endangered species contained in cites. prohibitions only create counter-pressure and the attempt to circumvent them. the black market will be established, smuggling will flourish, and the price of birds will rise. health risks may also increase. in the interests of consistency with established veterinary standards and practices, including the washington convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, there is no need to insist on this decision.
mr. president, the expansion of the schengen area has been great news for the citizens of my country. it symbolized the equal status of the citizens of the czech republic in the union. unfortunately, the headlines today are full of headlines about the harassment of czech drivers by german and austrian police, as from april there are targeted detailed checks of buses and passenger cars with czech license plates on the territory of germany and austria. only after more than a month of ramp inspections did austria announce its intention to carry out checks from june in connection with the european football championship. be that way. however, i strongly protest against the area checks of czech drivers on german territory. it's a unilateral, hard-to-explain measure that's worsening the neighborhood relations. citizens write to me, asking for a czech retaliation. this is not a good situation and it will affect the political climate before the ratification of the lisbon treaty. i have already made an interpellation and now i ask you, my german colleagues, to pay attention to this in your own country.
mr. chairman, today we're discussing a change in the tariff preferences for developing countries for the next three years. i fully support the call for greater flexibility in helmut markov's report. the amendments tabled by mrs quisthoudt-rowohl are important. the european commission needs to analyse in much greater detail the impact of generalised preferences on the economies of developing countries and also examine their impact on the european economy and consumer protection. the development of the poorest countries is not only affected by the gsp, but also, and increasingly, by non-tariff measures, humanitarian aid or, conversely, sanctions in connection with gross violations of human rights or international treaties. we must therefore insist on serious and thorough analyses of the impact of all these measures on developing countries and, on the basis of these analyses, adjust the tariff rates more flexibly than at present, not in isolation but in conjunction with all the other measures. moreover, we would like to see more coordination of development policy with the us and other countries.
for the ppe-de group. mr president, i very much appreciate the report by mr karas, which deals with a very important subject, namely easy access to banking services for all citizens and businesses in the european union. these are the things that will help us to open up or complete our internal market in a significant way. however, i would like to draw attention to a very serious problem, namely the high bank charges in a number of member states. in some member states - and my own czech republic is one of the biggest culprits - these bank charges are at an outrageous level, which literally calls for sufficient foreign competition. only poland is worse off than the czech republic, while cheaper banking is found in the netherlands or austria, for example. the commission and parliament have the tools to change this situation quickly, including the incredibly high fees for issuing payment cards. in addition to effective competition, the improvement of the position of consumers and businesses would lead to the removal of barriers to cross-border electronic banking. in addition to reducing bank charges and their overall transparency, there will also be a need to focus on enhancing the quality of banking services and adequate financial education of consumers and smes. last but not least, the european union will also have to focus on regulating so-called micropayments, which can significantly disrupt not only electronic commerce. ladies and gentlemen, we have it under control.
for the ppe-de group. madam president, i would like to welcome the own-initiative report by mr audy, who points out the importance of the consistent application of customs measures for the proper functioning of the internal market. our market is, however, increasingly distorted by illegal imports from third countries. this is not just about smuggling, counterfeiting and customs evasion. our market also receives goods that do not meet european safety standards, many of which still bear the conformity mark. unfortunately, the capacity of the customs authorities to carry out such checks is never sufficient. our committee has seen that in antwerp, only half a percent of the containers are checked every day. all these phenomena undermine confidence in the internal market. consumers are harmed, as are european producers, who cannot face such unfair competition on their own. we have had a customs union for 40 years and yet member states still do not act in a sufficiently uniform way when applying customs law. for example, there are substantial differences in the rules for tariff classification, value and origin of preferential and non-preferential goods. i share the rapporteur's view that a higher level of harmonisation would improve the situation and that the commission should also respond to legitimate complaints against the uniform application of the value-added criterion, for example by the textile industry. overly strict and complicated customs measures make it difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular to access the international market, and it is clear that simplification, modernisation and harmonisation of the procedure for importing and exporting goods would be beneficial for european competitiveness.
madam president, i would also like to draw attention to one point which has not been discussed here, and i would like to ask the commissioner what steps the european union has already taken in relation to the measures taken by the united states, what ways it sees for better coordination of trade procedures within the framework of transatlantic relations and, in essence, whether it sees any possibility of finding a good balance, a good balance between security measures and, of course, the need to create a more flexible and resilient market between europe and america. i refer to the container measures which are also mentioned in the report by mr audy.
i would like to speak as a member of parliament from a country which, unless it is fully affected by globalisation and global warming, will not have a major fire problem, but i do feel that solidarity between the european nations is important. and having listened to this debate many times before, i am absolutely convinced, as a former manager, that it is high time that we had a common strategy that addressed prevention, that addressed a systemic way to help at a time when this country needs it. it's not a question of money, but it's a question of capacity and essentially of managed management, managed assistance, which is not just dependent on funds. so i strongly urge the council, all the presidencies and, of course, the commission to do everything possible to ensure that we do not always stand here in this house with our hands open and vote on whether we are going to help today or next week and whether it is a small or a big disaster.
forty years ago, the customs union was the key to european prosperity, as it made possible the single internal market. today, we face new challenges because of globalized trade. we know that only half a percent of the huge volume of goods from overseas can be checked at european ports, and one in three containers contains counterfeits. and another threat is goods that don't meet our technical and safety standards. i want to stress that we need to protect european consumers better against these goods. and the effectiveness of coordination will depend on the consistent implementation of the new modern legislation, which is our or was our good gift for the anniversary of the customs union. we also have the right to dispose of dangerous goods as well as counterfeit goods. customs will be busy then. this is a good gift for them, but there are of course many other ways: more cooperation with businesses, more effective coordination between member states through e-customs, and also new cooperation with third countries. and i just want to point out that we have also managed to improve the conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises a little bit.
first of all, my thanks to mrs panayotopoulos for the good report and the pleasant cooperation. let me make two points. many of our documents operate under the terms 'decent work' and 'decent employment'. the reality is that more and more jobs can be considered as "mack jobs", that is, low-skilled, low-paid work. the number of people working and living in poverty is not decreasing, which shows that more and more employers are hiring people outside the field of labour law. another wound that is sure to lead to an increase in the number of poor people is the recently approved draft directive on working hours, which introduces the possibility of working as in some chinese industrial zones. my second comment concerns the need to take account of the fact that the trend towards privatisation of public and social services in some member states is not being taken into account at all. privatization of public and social services is also leading to an increase in the number of people living in poverty. i note that my amendments to this effect are regularly rejected. i would very much like to see us actually do something instead of leafleting and announcing certain years.
mr president, it is rather a peculiar day for us. we used to live in the same country, czechoslovakia, and now, today, we czechs can wish all the best to the slovaks in joining the euro. slovakia was given the green light to join the euro zone a few weeks ago. the slovakian government as well as the slovak central bank are well aware that meeting crucial criteria, not in the short term but in the medium and long terms, will be a demanding task. the slovak economy is in the process of catching up with the rest of the european monetary union. that may lead to pressure on prices and inflation and i am sure that the slovaks will cope with it. but that is not what i want to talk about now. today i would like to put the emphasis on something different, on something which i would personally call the slovak story, the way to the euro. the reality that slovakia will join the euro zone is based on sound foundations and the remarkable results of the slovak economy. it is fair to stress the positive role of the former centre-right coalition slovak government, led by its skilful prime minister mikuláš dzurinda. having carried out all important structural reforms, the slovak economy has met all important criteria: reduction of public debt and keeping inflation under control; the author of these reforms was the government and cabinet of mr dzurinda. i wish all the best to the slovaks in the euro zone.
mr president, the project of european unification is stumbling because of the ratification of the new treaty, perhaps because the prosperity that the single internal market brings to europeans is already taken for granted. unfortunately, we are too quietly celebrating the success of the customs union, which is now 40 years old. the single currency is also celebrating a major success after 10 years. by forcing governments to maintain budgetary discipline, the euro area has become a respectably stable macroeconomy that is resilient to shocks in the face of globalisation. as the member for the czech republic, i would like to sincerely congratulate slovakia on joining the euro area. the lion's share of the credit goes to dzurinda's reforms five years ago. now the left can reap the benefits of having accepted the eurozone as a national interest when it entered government. i hope that the czech anti-eu people will learn from this and that the slovaks will be able to congratulate us too. unfortunately, it's going to take at least another five years or more.
mr president, i voted today in favour of the revision of the waste framework directive. among other things, it allows the czech republic to ban the import of waste as raw material if this is contrary to the national plan. thanks to parliament's intervention, the revision also includes new recycling targets. they seem too ambitious to the south, too ambitious to the north, but even in the czech republic, they seem weak. i appreciate the compromise. the states have different starting conditions, and this is a common starting point. today, the production of waste is 3.5 tons per person, and the southern country exports up to 90% to landfills. for the first time, a five-level hierarchy of waste management is being introduced into european law. prevention comes first, reuse comes second, then recycling, and then burning for energy. the dumpsters are the last resort for the rest of us. i have great respect for the work done by mrs jackson, who has given birth to this compromise which is good for europe.
i also welcome the directive adopted. setting targets of 50% recycling rate for municipal waste and 70% recycling rate for industrial waste will probably satisfy few. some consider it to be unambitious, others to be unrealistic. from the czech republic's point of view, this is rather a step backwards, but the important point is that the directive does not prevent states from adopting stricter and more binding national rules, which in my view is desirable in this case. from the czech republic's point of view, i consider the provisions on the reclassification of municipal waste incinerators into waste recovery facilities to be highly unsatisfactory. this would possibly mean massive imports of waste from neighbouring countries, as import of waste for recovery purposes is allowed in the union. it is difficult to imagine effective control mechanisms that can detect whether imported waste has actually been used or incinerated. the member states concerned that their country should not become a burning europe should therefore make every effort to remove the provision in question from the draft directive.
mr president, i would like to congratulate slovakia on its entry into the euro area. i would now like to acknowledge the work done by the rapporteur, mr casa, in dealing with the controversy in parliament about the legitimacy of the revaluation of the slovak currency and others. the discussion showed that a number of other requirements that may affect the long-term stability of the single currency are justified. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i do not agree with those who, in the debate today, refused to change the maastricht criteria for the future. and once again i want to highlight the achievements of the dzurinda government, which five years ago launched the necessary reforms in slovakia. without them, slovakia would not be celebrating its economic and political success today. slovaks are now showing the way for the czech republic.
mr president, sustainable development policy has no chance of success unless it has a global dimension. the un millennium declaration calls on all states to ensure policy coherence for development, but in practice, many developed countries do not do so. in contrast, the european union's commitment to examine the impact of our european policies on development objectives is a matter of concern. i appreciate all the more that we are limiting our fishing policy in the interests of developing countries' objectives. i want to draw attention to the logging in west africa, which is only 5% of a sustainable economy. it is important that the commission financially support the development of national strategic plans in africa, but we will prevent the plundering of tropical forests by not allowing it to be imported into europe, i mean wood, unless it is certified with an eco-label. i trust that the commission will soon put forward such a proposal and that we and the council will approve it without any reservations.
in writing. for years, real politicians in virtually every country in the world have watched the avalanche of waste. one good solution to this catastrophic development is legislation that imposes a high recycling rate on individual materials. unfortunately, even in separate collection, we see a steady increase in materials that are collectively called "mixed waste". i appreciate the efforts made by mrs jackson in her report to find a correct and temporary solution. although some of the ideas in the amendments are interesting and we will support them, i cannot accept that waste incineration should be considered as an energy use at the level of renewable energy sources. despite the above-mentioned partial advantages, neither i nor the majority of the gue/ngl political groups can therefore vote for this report. we cannot support the change in the classification of municipal waste incineration plants to the same level as clean energy sources.
for the group gue/ngl. i would like to say that commissioner piebalgs is in a difficult situation and is in fact the victim of a bureaucratic conspiracy that is driving us very quickly to a rash action, and it is also true that we have data that are not reliable. the data they have provided us are from 2003 to 2004 and the energy market was actually fully opened only in june 2007 and the experience regarding the differences between the new and old member states is not evaluated. it should also be said that the experience gained from the first two energy packages has not been evaluated. i am convinced that, in addition to this criticism, which includes the underestimated risks to the energy security of the member states, because when a large amount of assets is thrown on the market without actually being guaranteed that it will not fall into the wrong hands, they are too high, some positive solutions must also be given. i think that the agency should be given powers to prevent power cuts and the commission should be given the power to declare a price moratorium in the event of an increase in energy prices of more than 30% on an annual average in all the member states. in the case of a 30% increase in the average of the member states, commissioner piebalgs and his colleagues should be given the chance to declare a price moratorium, as the experience of some citizens of the european union, and in particular fishermen and lorry drivers, now shows. i think this is a measure which would be welcomed by the countries of the european union and would enhance the prestige of our community.
i strongly support the idea of leaving the power to member states to determine freely the ownership relationships between energy producers and transmission systems. i also welcome the strengthening of the independence of the powers and duties of national regulators. as regards access to the network for cross-border trade, i find explicit auctions useful. i take it for granted that the proceeds from the auctions will be included in the tariffs. and i also take for granted the proposal that the agency for regulatory cooperation should operate on a one country, one vote basis. ladies and gentlemen, i must also point out that the option of ownership, auctioning or other agency is not the essential way to improve the functioning of the electricity market. in the face of rising energy prices and consumption, i believe it is necessary to build more power plants and, in particular, to massively strengthen the transmission networks. and it is also necessary to promote and promote nuclear as a clean and safe source of energy. we need to stop worrying about nuclear power.
ladies and gentlemen, as shadow rapporteur on mr chichester's report, i was one of those who supported the proposal that the commission's original intention of one country, one vote should be maintained in the case of a vote at the energy regulators agency. the implementation of the so-called weighted voting system would favour large member states over smaller member states. the itre committee supported the fairer principle by a large majority, and i believe that will be the case for the vote in plenary. the creation of an agency that would not be another bureaucratic debate club without powers was also wanted by most national energy market regulators and the uneven conditions for individual countries would practically render useless the effort to create a respected and functioning agency. national energy markets have evolved under different conditions and are not yet effectively interconnected, and the agency has a chance to contribute to a real interconnection.
i would like to ask the commission the following question: to what extent are they binding... (the performance was suspended).
for the ppe-de group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on pedestrian protection aims to minimise the consequences of a pedestrian-vehicle collision. the order goes too far in my opinion. it lays down requirements for the construction and functioning of vehicles, including frontal protection systems. the requirements imposed on the manufacturer approach the limits given by the laws of physics, the structure of the human body, a reasonable compromise between the protection of vehicle occupants and pedestrians and other vehicle design parameters. in this respect, the regulation places an enormous burden on vehicle manufacturers. it is important to bear in mind that meeting the requirements defined in the regulation will have a significant cost for manufacturers and will logically be reflected in the price of the car. it will have a negative impact on vehicle weight, aerodynamic performance, fuel consumption and thus the environment. on the other hand, it reduces the consequences of a pedestrian-vehicle collision. the greatest potential for further improving pedestrian safety lies in the deployment of intelligent systems that prevent collisions and minimise their consequences. improving transport infrastructure and, where possible, separating pedestrians from road traffic appears to be effective. it can be reasonably assumed that the resources spent for these purposes will have a better effect than further tightening of the requirements for cars.
for the ppe-de group. mr president, commissioner wallström, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has an irreplaceable role to play in the implementation of european law. its task is to implement european legislation at community level and to monitor its implementation in the individual member states. one of the key tools for managing this process is comitology. comitology is legitimate and has its indispensable place in the process of policy and law-making. it arose from the practical need to adapt and supplement community technical regulations to the realities and needs of practice. but that doesn't mean the current system is perfect. in the context of comitology, a balanced balance must be sought between the commission, the council and the member states, respectively, and the european parliament. the importance of the european parliament and its position in the adoption of european legislation is irreplaceable. however, we must be aware that the possibility of monitoring the implementation of legislative instruments is undeniably limited in time, in terms of technical knowledge and in terms of knowledge. by dragging parliament too much into the whole process, i think we're putting the whole process at risk of further red tape. and it's the reduction of red tape that we should be focusing on. the hundreds of comitology committees, the thousands of meetings and the implementing measures adopted do not undoubtedly contribute to the transparency of comitology. in my view, there should be more formalisation of comitology and it is clear that the whole process needs to be reduced and simplified. ladies and gentlemen, comitology is, like the treaty of lisbon, something that citizens do not understand. the irish 'ne' should therefore be taken as a warning in our discussion of comitology.
mr president, after the irish referendum, the socialist leader, mr schulz, was shouting at us, the citizens of the smaller member countries, especially ireland and the czech republic, with the traditional german arrogance of a superpower. i quote: 'but when such small countries block a common reform process, we have to ask whether or not they want to stay in the union.' i want to assure you, mr president, and please tell mr schulz that if the irish have killed the corrupt fruit of the german presidency, the treaty of lisbon, the czechs will gladly bury it and remain a member state. it buries it because it contains the charter and for the first time in 60 years it opens the way to the restitution of sudeten german property in our country and to the revision not of the beneš decrees but of the just outcome of the second world war, and also because it deprives the veto rights of small member countries and increases the voting power of germany from 9 to 18 at their expense. mr schulz should rather ask himself what the impact of the treaty of lisbon would be in germany if it were put to the german people in a referendum. congratulations to the irish and to all of us.
ladies and gentlemen, the only democratic and honest solution is to admit that the lisbon treaty is dead and that it was a dead end. tomorrow, heads of state should finally realize that in a democracy, politics is not made over goose livers in air-conditioned rooms, and stop trying to run the lives of others from brussels. the irish referendum is clear evidence that the people do not want to be cowed by the dictates and arrogance of the eu elites. the council must make its decisions public and stop deceiving the public. what lessons can we learn from our own history? do the political elites really want the big states to decide for the smaller states again after the bloody 20th century? and isn't it enough for some prime ministers and presidents to have lived a substantial part of their lives in a totalitarian state? ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow the council should review the basic concepts: why the union was created and what values it is based on. it should respect the law and the rules and immediately declare that further ratification of the dead lisbon treaty is completely unnecessary.
ladies and gentlemen, six months ago in lisbon, 27 european heads of government and state pledged by their signatures to ratify the treaty of reform. i would like to see this recalled at the european council on thursday. i would like to remind the czech prime minister, mirko topolánek, in particular, of the obligation to ratify, since he, like the czech president, says that the treaty of lisbon is dead and that it is not worth ratifying any further. i would like it to be primarily the prime ministers from the european people's party camp who remind the czech prime minister of the duty and also the responsibility that lies before the presidency. the czech republic will be holding the presidency of the european union from 1 january and the conclusion of the ratification process, the solution of the whole problem of the lisbon treaty will fall on the shoulders of this republic. i repeat, i would like it to be the european people's party that reminds the czech prime minister of this duty.
in writing. the treaty of lisbon became a dead document, as it was when the french and dutch rejected the draft european constitution. the president of parliament, mr pöttering, said that the treaty was intended to achieve more democracy, political efficiency, clarity and transparency and that the ratification process must continue in those countries where ratification had not yet taken place, but these are just empty phrases. if a referendum were held in other states, the irish no would not be the only one. the fraud of the 'european elites' submitting for ratification a dusty and modified draft of the european constitution! so, the french and the dutch would say no, besides the irish, after all, that's what the polls in those countries say. those who 'steer' eu policy should finally realise that the majority of citizens reject the union as a militaristic and neoliberal project, with socialist consequences! the result of the irish referendum is not a disaster for europe, as some are trying to claim. it's a chance for a new process of discussion, in which ordinary citizens should finally be included on a large scale. the irish did not vote against the european union, but against the content of the treaty of lisbon, which would have led to the breakdown of the social standard achieved and the transformation of the union into a militaristic conglomerate. the so-called european idea is not threatened by those who reject the lisbon treaty, but by those who now call for 'going further' or considering the introduction of a 'two-speed' union.
i voted for mrs morgan's report because i agree with the need to ensure the security of gas and electricity supplies, the sustainability of the low-carbon electricity market and global competitiveness. how to achieve this was also the subject of yesterday's debate here in the plenary. it has not been conclusively demonstrated that the complete separation of ownership of the distribution network and producers means an automatic increase in investment and improved network performance. i see still room for finding a solution that is beneficial to both consumers and other entities wishing to enter this market. the creation of a pan-european electricity market is not possible without more intensive regional cooperation in the field of interstate transmissions and coordination of investment and operational activities. i therefore support the strengthening of coordination mechanisms for regional cooperation.
in writing. the return of illegal immigrants to their country of origin is a highly controversial topic. a broader interpretation of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of 1950, the 1951 un convention relating to the status of refugees as amended by the 1967 protocol, and the 1989 un convention on the rights of the child, in most cases, precludes such activity. in addition to the above, taking into account the critical comments from committees (e.g. libe), i must say that the directives allowing for 18 months of internment and the conditions found in the detention centres when members visit only reinforce this impression. if anyone commits a crime, they should be punished, including those who illegally employ these third-country nationals in poor conditions. the gue/ngl cannot support this directive.
in writing. i believe that the draft directive on common standards and procedures in the member states for returning illegally staying third-country nationals is a bad draft. the aim is to tackle a serious problem by administrative and repressive measures, which requires, first and foremost, a political solution aimed at eliminating the causes of illegal migration. the draft report submitted by manfred weber to the european parliament's plenary contains only cosmetic amendments, more or less, which do not address the substance of the matter. the introduction of repressive measures against so-called illegal immigrants, such as so-called pre-trial detention, and their detention in the terrible conditions that prevail in some detention centres (according to the findings of the libe committee), is contrary to international human rights conventions. in addition, there is a fundamental problem with the explanatory statement and thus with the overall concept. although the possibility of granting legal residence permits to so-called illegal immigrants is mentioned as an alternative, the commission proposal and the report, which should be adopted by the european parliament, are based on a single conclusion: illegal immigrants must leave europe. in view of the above, i recommend that the report be voted down.
for the group gue/ngl ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the fact that the obstacles which some member states had put in the way of opening negotiations with russia on a new partnership and cooperation agreement have finally been overcome. the fact that after 18 months, on the eve of the summit, the commission finally received a mandate to negotiate can benefit both sides. but let's not kid ourselves. if we deal with such complex problems as energy cooperation, climate change or security issues in such a way that we shoot at each other from trench positions with all sorts of often unrealizable conditions, practically ultimatums, we will get nowhere. but there are still some among us who don't understand. but then, logically, like a chess game, it can be a "both". but we need each other to have a new level of 21st century relationships, and there's a chance for that. i would say that the citizens of the european union will benefit most from using it.
ladies and gentlemen, the european union, and by that i mean the council, should clearly define how it sees its relations with russia. whether, for example, gas supplies, kosovo, freedom of expression and human rights will be negotiated by individual member states separately or whether at least elementary agreement can be found on some common interests. i believe it is in the interests of the citizens that the union should act in a united way towards russia, which unfortunately is not the case. we should push for a more stable business and political climate in russia, which would include fewer import barriers and create more space for union investors. russia's membership in the world trade organization would certainly help. and of course, within that partnership, to insist on and demand from each other respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms. it is necessary that the union as a strong group and russia as a great power stop behaving like two cities connected only by a narrow road and a gas pipeline. they should better integrate their economies and make partnerships of reason, not marriages of love.
president medvedev will attend the eu-russia summit for the first time. the union should use its accession to move relations towards a pragmatic, realistic, strategic partnership. this partnership is more important for russia itself in the long term. president medvedev is prioritizing the rule of law, as he says, and the modernization of the economy. and this is where europe needs it. also in international and trade relations, russia needs a more stable and solid partner than china or iran. there is no danger to russia from the european union. on the contrary, it can help russia maintain the status of a key player that it would otherwise lose gradually through the influence of a unilaterally oriented economy and democracy. however, a strategic partnership can only be based on a symmetrical dialogue between equals. on the russian side, the example must be the end of the petty division of europe and accession to the union as a whole. short-sighted plots and provocations are unnecessarily delaying the emergence of a real partnership with the eu and considerations of long-term relevance to the negotiation of a new partnership and cooperation agreement with the eu should be taken into account.
for the group gue/ngl i'd like to welcome the new commissioner. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, whether we like it or not, within the european union not only normal goods but also dangerous goods must be transported. the share of dangerous goods in freight transport today is around 8%, and it is good that this report seeks to harmonise the requirements of the four directives currently in use, on the basis of the international agreements in force. the harmonization of the transport of goods, especially in the case of multimodal transport, is an absolutely necessary and logical step to have a positive impact on the internal market of the european union. transport safety is best achieved by harmonising regulations. these rules must clearly define the marking of the load as well as distinguish between the different hazard classes of the goods transported. i am right to think that this technical directive is necessary and i agree with my colleague lichtenberger that it is really necessary to examine carefully whether the content corresponds to the description. the council adopted all the amendments approved by parliament at first reading. the common position contains only two minor changes. this is a requirement to contribute to the translation of the directive into national languages and the possibility for member states to decide not to apply the provisions of annex iii in specific cases. the directive contributes to the clear interpretation and simplification of legislation in rail, road and inland waterway transport. i believe that in many cases it is not the shipping that is the most dangerous, but the road. the gue/ngl group will therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
for the group gue/ngl one of the important objectives set by the european union in 2001 in road transport is to halve the number of deaths on european roads by 2010, from 50 000 to 25 000 per year. the results so far are not very satisfactory. in 2005, 41,500 people died on the roads. so some new measures are needed. road safety is determined not only by the safety of the vehicles and the quality of the driver's training, but also by the state of the infrastructure, i.e. the safety of the road structure and its corresponding marking. most of the measures taken so far are focused on vehicle safety, some of them seek to influence driver training and eliminate those who may be dangerous to other road users, e.g. the points system. at european union level, little has been done so far on the methodology for improving transport infrastructure. the best practice should therefore be spread as quickly as possible. as the most important communications are considered to be those which have been included in the ten-t network, the report also focuses on this area. i think that in the long term, targeted investment in infrastructure and road marking, including the application of information technology, is absolutely essential, not just on major roads and not just in new states. in addition to the use of passive and active safety features in new vehicles and the ecall system, this is the element that has the greatest potential to influence road safety in the future. the gue/ngl group warmly recommends the adoption of the report.
road safety should be supported by assistance systems. they have a positive effect on both the driver and the flow of traffic. they should also make it easier for drivers to operate the vehicle, reducing the risk of loss of concentration. 'smart car' technologies offer the potential to alleviate or even eliminate these problems. i support the rapporteur's view that the current rate of deployment of 'smart car' systems and applications is still very low in relation to their potential. i also believe that we need to make full use of these systems and applications as soon as possible. support is also needed for 'intelligent road infrastructure', which is not yet ready. the requirements imposed on active safety components in vehicles clearly have a positive impact on reducing the number of road accidents. the ecall system is an effective complement to the overall system for the protection of road users. i congratulate the rapporteur on the presentation of this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to explain my vote on the european parliament resolution on strengthening the union's capacity to respond to disasters. the decisive move towards solidarity and mutual assistance is both right and necessary. the barnier report needs to be followed up with concrete action and the commission's communication is a way forward in this respect. there is an undeniable need to ensure compatibility and to strengthen cooperation between the different levels of rescue services at the borders of our states. unfortunately, i could not support the resolution because our oral amendment was not adopted, and we are thus introducing a requirement for the creation of legally binding instruments which will interfere with national programmes, policies and laws and will also undermine the element of solidarity. i am convinced that we will achieve a better protection of our interests against the effects of disasters by supporting the rescue services of our member states, by coordinating them and by investing in equipment, and not by new laws which will only add further elements of bureaucracy to the whole process.
the author. ladies and gentlemen, i do not share the bush administration's view that iran is a threat to world security and that it needs to be armed. i am also against imposing our values and our lifestyle on different cultures, just to give multinational capital an easier path to the planet's raw materials and thus to modern colonialism. but i am against the barbarism that persists, even though there is no longer any reason for it. the barbarity of the iranian regime of mahmoud ahmadinejad, executing juvenile delinquents and even political opponents, has no justification in the culture of iran either. in the past, the country has only used the death penalty in exceptional cases and public executions have only been carried out when the punishment was for mass murder or child murder. however, under the current regime, hundreds of executions are carried out in iran every year, many of them involving juveniles. so was 17-year-old muhammad hasanzadeh, who was executed on june 10. i've seen photos of public executions in iran recently with my own eyes, and believe me, it's one of the most horrific things i've ever seen in my life. my group, gue/ngl, through the european parliament, calls on the islamic republic of iran to immediately stop carrying out executions, in particular executions of juvenile offenders. iran under ahmadinejad has long since been executing not just mass murderers but people who commit acts that the developed world punishes with incomparably less or no regard for law. countries must rethink their conception of law and adapt it to respect for human life. otherwise, iran will remain on the fringes of the civilized world.
ladies and gentlemen, one of the key common values of the european union is linguistic and cultural diversity. to promote this wealth, a number of countries have adopted the charter for minority languages alongside their legislation. these include the federal republic of germany. i would point out that the commitments made here require financial support for cultural institutions of minorities. in the case of the foundation for the serbian people, the appropriations are gradually reduced over the years. that's not a good example of fulfilling the charter's obligations. we call on the german government to honour its promises. let's not let another nation disappear from the map of europe.
ladies and gentlemen, the free movement of persons within the schengen area is undoubtedly a positive european value. but it also means free movement for all kinds of enemies of society. thanks to information systems and the work of europol and interpol, the search for accused and fugitive criminals is also functioning. however, we repeatedly encounter problems in enforcing corrective measures ordered by the court as part of the sentence. i'm talking about measures like the banning of certain professions, forced psychiatric or sexological treatment, and the whole area of post-conviction supervision of parolees. there is no doubt that work on the european information system needs to be accelerated and, above all, that national institutions should be obliged not only to contribute to the system but also to receive the relevant data.
in writing. i am also concerned about the concerns of tens of thousands of citizens who have petitioned to highlight the risky circumstances of the construction of the largest gas pipeline under the shallow baltic sea. their petition inspired a public hearing and an ep report, which reveal the need to involve other countries, and especially the eu, in the decision-making process. the environmental risks posed by the extensive burial of war wrecks and munitions on the seabed and the risky chemical method of cleaning the pipeline before it is put into operation are a concern. i do not dare to comment on the alternative land route, but i am deeply convinced that the european commission and the council must properly assume their coordination responsibilities and, in the interests of the baltic states and others, consistently require the investor to take full responsibility for any environmental damage and require an independent impact assessment as well as an evaluation of the alternative land route. the northern route for russian gas is important and it is therefore necessary for the eu to conclude an agreement with russia on the conditions for controlling the construction and safe operation of the pipeline. russia has not yet ratified the espoo convention. unfortunately, we do not yet have a common energy policy and eu standards. this is an example of how europeans need an eu agreement and the consent of the baltic states to build, rather than a bilateral agreement between germany and russia. parliament is now sending a clear political signal to that effect.
ladies and gentlemen, the successful handling of afghanistan's security, political, economic and social problems requires more than just a military solution. military pressure on the rebels must be accompanied by an intensive political process and dialogue with all sections of the population that recognize the constitution and are willing to lay down their arms. the european union, i believe, should support afghanistan more intensively than it has so far in building its own state with stronger democratic institutions capable of ensuring the territorial integrity, unity and economic and social development of the country. the most important and urgent support is now in the south of the country. however, the strengthening of administrative capacity and the gradual assumption of responsibility for the governance of the country by the afghan authorities must be accompanied by effective protection of the human rights of all inhabitants, ensured in accordance with the rule of law. without this protection, there is no guarantee of lasting and sustainable success.
mr president, i have great respect for the work of the rapporteur, peter lies, who has succeeded in getting the council to accept the maximum of what parliament proposed in its first reading last november. the result is a comprehensive conceptual text that allows us to safely approve the integration of aviation into the greenhouse gas emission allowance system and thus to abolish the current economic advantage of aviation over land transport by the end of 2012. the proposal also saves new companies by providing 15% of allowances for auctions and extends to flights from and to europe. i'm going to go back to my speech in november and say that to reduce emissions in the atmosphere on earth, it's essential to convince the rest of the world to regulate. i believe we will soon be able to conclude an agreement with the united states and other countries. i welcome the limitation of exceptions. unlike the air rescue service, i personally see no reason why the same rules should not apply to the flights of statesmen and monarchs when it comes to protecting the environment.
i am also concerned about the concerns of tens of thousands of citizens who have petitioned to highlight the risky circumstances of the construction of the largest gas pipeline under the shallow baltic sea. their petition inspired a public hearing and an ep report, which reveal the need to involve other countries, and especially the eu, in the decision-making process. the environmental risks posed by the extensive burial of war wrecks and munitions on the seabed and the risky chemical method of cleaning the pipeline before it is put into operation are a concern. i do not dare to comment on the alternative land route, but i am deeply convinced that the european commission and the council must properly assume their coordination responsibilities and, in the interests of the baltic states and others, consistently require the investor to take full responsibility for any environmental damage and require an independent impact assessment as well as an evaluation of the alternative land route. the northern route for russian gas is important and it is therefore necessary for the eu to conclude an agreement with russia on the conditions for controlling the construction and safe operation of the pipeline. russia has not yet ratified the espoo convention. unfortunately, we do not yet have a common energy policy and eu standards. this is an example of how europeans need an eu agreement and the consent of the baltic states to build, rather than a bilateral agreement between germany and russia. parliament is now sending a clear political signal to that effect.
in writing. the report on the situation in afghanistan and the proposals for stabilising the situation in that country is, in my view, contradictory and too focused on the significance of military action and the importance of nato's role in the region. the report states that the taliban's activities do not pose a direct threat to afghanistan's sovereignty, but warns that afghanistan is now at a critical crossroads. rather, afghan president karzai himself has made it clear that international forces are not up to the task of fighting the taliban, and he adds - and i think this is very pertinent - that the war on terrorism cannot be won unless some of the partners in the afghan government stop pursuing other, more personal, interests. the war in afghanistan, waged by the former soviet union, has already shown that this country cannot be stabilized, let alone controlled, by preferring military action. the only effective way to stabilise the situation is through political, economic and social measures, not only for afghanistan but also for neighbouring countries. and the us's own hegemonic interests in the region are perhaps the key aspect of this grave problem.
ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, members of the council, i would like to say that we are in the same situation today as the people in john bunyan's book the pilgrim's progress, who are asked: 'were you doers or talkers only? did you do something or just talk about it? i think the time calls for action and the european voters want us to take action to bring fair prices to the energy market. speculation now accounts for 30 to 40% of the final price and it would be good to introduce a moratorium on energy prices if the increase is as it is now above 30% per annum. i think that's what people expect from us. it's clear that markets are not self-sustaining here, and it confirms the old wisdom that the financier holds the state like a rope on a hangman. i would like to say that i think the current situation is that it's not liberalization that will help us, but it will help us to build new capacities, including so much goddamn nuclear energy, that it will help us to invest, to invest massively in new technologies, and this is what can be a big challenge, that in the energy sector, the foundation of a new long technological wave will be created, because in fact, it is innovations that will defeat crises, including the energy crisis.
ladies and gentlemen, i am afraid that once again today we are dealing with the particular problems of the energy market instead of thinking comprehensively about the strategic problems. do we really know what the real energy needs of the european union countries will be in the coming decades and do we really reflect this in our regulations and directives? do we really know how we envisage the stability of the european energy system as a whole? can we say with certainty which countries are actually actively addressing energy needs, and can we point the finger at those black passengers who only import energy and yet shamelessly criticize its producers and exporters? and have we looked, for example, in the light of the latest world bank study, at least a little realistically at the eu's nonsensical biofuel targets? ladies and gentlemen, no market works if demand exceeds supply. and that is what may very soon happen to the union in the field of energy. it is therefore necessary to start promoting research and development and, above all, to address all the components of the energy chain, such as production, transmission, distribution and consumption. in the area of resources, it is therefore essential to start building new facilities, whether one likes it or not, to replace the existing ones that are outlived and to meet the growing demand for energy. i believe we need to start talking about an energy mix that doesn't discriminate against any energy source, including nuclear, that respects the geographical and political map of mineral owners, and that is not based on green dreams, but on modern, practical scientific knowledge. ladies and gentlemen, i am of course in favour of the so-called third way, namely that member states should be left free to determine the ownership relationship between energy producers and transmission systems. i also welcome the strengthening of the independence of powers and responsibilities of the eventual transmission system operator. i believe that this will help avoid increasing unilateral dependence on russian gas supplies, while investing in the distribution and security of gas supplies.
mr president, commissioners, first of all i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for the joint debate for the efforts they have made. two reports on the natural gas market support the liberalisation of the market in europe. the legislation provides an alternative to full ownership through the ito model and the obligation of national authorities to integrate renewable sources into transmission systems, manage third party access, set charges for network access and impose sanctions for discriminatory behaviour can be positively assessed. the creation of a cooperation body, i.e. the european network of transmission system operators and the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators, is also valuable. these institutions are a prerequisite for the emergence of an integrated natural gas market. it should be added, however, that the benefits of market liberalisation can only be realised where a diversified supplier market already exists today, i.e. in most western european countries. in contrast, in most of the new member states there is a near monopoly of natural gas supplier. paradoxically, these countries can pay for the liberalisation package by weakening the position of the carrier, which has a contract with a monopoly producer, through the proposed legislation. this model of economic relations is better suited to the so-called third way. i support the liberalisation of the market, but in the case of natural gas in most of the new member states we must first demobilise the market, bring more suppliers onto it and only then can we safely carry out, for example, ownership separation. let me conclude by saying a few words about the report on the european energy technology plan. it is closely linked to the union's energy consumption, to the reduction of co2 emissions, to europe's energy dependency. however, as the rapporteur notes, little attention is paid to economic production, cogeneration and polygeneration, savings in final consumption and energy efficiency in industry, and the budget for the targets set is very small. there is also a lack of money for the demonstration phase of technologies such as carbon capture and storage. it is to be hoped that the great european gestures and words on energy research will be accompanied by adequate budgetary resources.
the system of compulsory certification for entities carrying out maintenance and placing wagons in service is the only part of the improvement on the railway. without clear rules, it would simply be impossible to ensure greater road safety. in both cases, whether it is ertms in another report or here, the european railway agency has an important role to play. the result is to be the free movement of both wagons and locomotives, thus improving the railways' competitiveness vis-à-vis other modes of transport. this can then be reflected in an improved environment, whose transport burden becomes unbearable. it is therefore desirable to support the proposed amendments. a little note on the side. maintenance of trains and wagons only on railways not directly connected to the network should be dealt with by national rules, not monitored across the european union, including the relevant authorisations. it's like racing tracks and stuff like that.
for the group gue/ngl this regulation regulates the licensing of operators for the chartering of manned and unmanned aircraft, the free access to routes within the community, including possible deviations caused, for example, by public service obligations. the regulation requires that, in addition to financial viability, the importance of compliance with safety standards, including for leasing, be emphasised. the restrictions laid down in the regulation are intended in particular to limit the possibility of social dumping and to ensure that undertakings operate under more transparent conditions within the european economic area. i do not entirely agree with my predecessor that ryanair is the ideal case for how to deal with air traffic conditions. i congratulate the rapporteur on reaching an agreement with the commission and the council and welcome the result achieved, despite the fact that in the social field it has still not been possible to reach a general agreement on the related issue of working time and its limitation. the gue/ngl group welcomes the outcome of the negotiations and supports the conclusion of the negotiations.
madam president, i have also signed up for catch the eye for this report, but i understand that i may not have time to do so, so please let me at least put it in writing. i have also asked to speak on this report on air transport.
madam president, i apologize for speaking so early, and now allow me to supplement the debate on the report by mr racek on the road to a new culture of urban mobility. i like cycling, as i said, in brussels and strasbourg, i enjoy the safety of the cycle paths, and i particularly appreciate the consideration of the drivers. it's as if not only pedestrians, but cyclists have absolute priority here. i'm even more terrified at home in prague, watching tourists not just jump in front of cars, and i'd rather not ride my bike at home. different cultures are linked to different traditions of road rules, which were based on the right of the stronger. i am convinced that the increasing mobility of europe requires not only the harmonisation of road rules in the member states but also a gradual approximation of the penalties for road traffic offences. different rules will preserve a different culture, and therefore for the weary foreign cyclists and pedestrians, of whom i am one, they are a huge risk, especially in the new member states of their journey.
ladies and gentlemen, the unexpected and unwelcome gift of the tenth anniversary of emu was the impact of the us financial crisis on the world economy. another problematic gift is the growth of inflation. the ecb has managed the turmoil in global financial markets perfectly, providing eur 95 billion in liquidity and making further adjustments to ensure that short-term interest rates in the market are stabilised. it thus reaffirmed that the european union's common monetary policy brings significant benefits to the european economy and to individual citizens in times of instability. article 105 of the treaty also requires the ecb to support the general policies of the european union. the ecb now faces both disproportionately higher inflation growth on the one hand and a slowdown on the other. this is not only a challenge but also a stress test for the independence of the ecb and the european system of central banks. the treaty of lisbon is intended to give the european bank a legal personality with a defined independent statute. on the other hand, the continued integration of financial systems requires closer cooperation with the central banks of the member states. there are voices warning that the ecb's independence is under threat, not least because informal meetings of euro area finance ministers are given official status by the lisbon treaty. the debate is already about whether they can argue about whether the inflation target is set correctly. i think it is extremely important to distinguish between the professional and political debate that is part of democracy and the actual interference in the monetary policy of the european central bank. given the new birth pangs of the lisbon treaty, this will be a hugely important task for us here and, of course, for the media. i mean, the differentiation. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the balanced and highly professional report evaluating the annual report presented by the european central bank.
drafting committee on women's rights and gender equality. - ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the opinion on the report, i regret that the committee on guarantees has not taken over the key proposals in my opinion. it has thus again squandered the opportunity to ensure that there are clear rules for the social security of all family members when moving between all member states as regards reimbursement for non-acute medical care in accordance with the judgments of the court of justice. it is therefore our duty to make it clear that the amount of compensation for planned care abroad should correspond at least to the amount that similar care would cost in the country where the patient is insured. in the case of planned hospital care, the citizen must apply for authorisation in advance, but if his application is rejected, he has the right to appeal. outpatient care does not have to be reported in advance. citizens will now have to wait for the adoption of the new cross-border healthcare directive, although reimbursement of care is covered by this regulation. moreover, the directive will not be able to bring much about with regard to subsidiarity in the field of health, but it will delay the adoption of this matter perhaps for years. it is a pity that the social committee has underestimated this point of view, otherwise the report is of very high quality and i shall support it.
ladies and gentlemen, after 16 years, we have finally given today the green light to simplify, unify and at the same time tighten the licensing and withdrawal of air services, and i hope that the regulation will not lead to the abolition of small sports companies. i supported the ordinance. it will allow, or i believe that the regulation will actually allow, the revocation of licences of companies which mislead customers by not stating the total price of their tickets but their fares excluding taxes, fees or surcharges for petrol. i hope the watchdog agency will also look into price discrimination based on location. i believe that the amended regulation will also better protect safety, in particular by harmonising the conditions for chartering aircraft with crews in the eu, but also from third countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to explain my vote on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/55/ec on common rules for the internal market in natural gas. the key part of this directive is undoubtedly the proposal for ownership unbundling, which would result in preventing vertically integrated companies from owning a stake in the supply and transport of gas. i voted in favour of the amended compromise proposal, in particular because i believe that the concerns of the states which opposed full ownership unbundling should be taken into account. i agree with the commission that the european gas market suffers from a lack of investment in transmission infrastructure and a low level of coordination between the different transmission system operators. however, in my view, given the structural diversity of the gas and electricity markets, the two sectors cannot be treated in the same way. the gas market should be liberalised gradually and symmetrically. particular attention should be paid to harmonising the degree of openness of national markets.
for the pes group. ladies and gentlemen, let me first express my admiration for the way in which the chinese authorities have dealt with and are dealing with the aftermath of the devastating earthquake that hit the province of sichuan and its almost 10 million affected citizens. i appreciate that china has immediately opened its borders to foreign aid and i can promise on behalf of the social democratic group that we will continue to work to ensure that this european aid flows quickly, efficiently and effectively. as regards tibet, i welcome the resumption of contacts and the holding of two rounds of talks between the chinese authorities and the representatives of the dalai lama. i think this is a good start after the events of march and i also believe that these contacts and talks will continue and that a mutually acceptable solution will be found. china recently reopened its border with tibet to foreign tourists, and according to the new york times, more than a thousand tibetans detained after the march demonstrations have already been released. but i would still urge the chinese authorities to at least give the families of those who are still being held information about their whereabouts. and as for the olympics, i wish both china and the international olympic committee a good game, a successful game, because i am convinced that the hosting and the success of these games will also help to deepen human rights in china.
for the group gue/ngl thank you, mr president, it is always harder to see the speck in your own eye than the beam in your own eye. i would like first of all to express my condolences to the victims of this great disaster and also to express my admiration, as did my colleague mr rouček, for the response of the chinese government in helping the victims. i would also like to thank the commission for the unusually rapid financial assistance and express the conviction that this assistance will not be limited. i think i express the opinion of most of us that we want the olympic games to be held safely and in a spirit of fair play, and not just in the stadiums. we certainly have respect for the historical and cultural peculiarities of china. however, these two events open up the possibility for us to engage in a more intensive dialogue and to achieve real results in our talks with our partners in the people's republic of china, both in the field of the environment and in the field of human rights.
ladies and gentlemen, it has been said here by the rapporteur, the council and the commission that the last enlargement was a great success overall. i agree with that view. to take the example of its own country, the czech republic benefits enormously from its membership and is catching up with the most economically advanced countries by leaps and bounds, and yet there are people in this country, including president klaus, who are constantly questioning membership, who are questioning the very meaning of the european union. but similar phenomena are found in the neighboring country of austria. this country of eight million has created 150 000 jobs as a result of enlargement. and yet only 28% of austrians see their country's membership of the european union as a positive thing. i would therefore like to draw attention to one aspect of the elmar brok report, namely the need to put in place a comprehensive communication strategy to the public, explaining the meaning of enlargement, the advantages and, if necessary, the disadvantages of further enlargement. and i see this as the most important point, of course, next to the ratification of the lisbon treaty, next to the fulfillment of the commitments that we gave, in particular, to the western balkan countries in thessaloniki in 2003.
mr president, first of all, let me thank you for the fact that france has opened its labour market to the new member states since 1 september, thus removing one of the last barriers between the old and the new member states. i just hope mrs. merkel takes a cue from that, too. france, the czech republic and sweden have jointly prepared the 18-month framework programme for the presidency, and i am pleased that some of its priorities have been set out here, in particular the energy issue, which is really crucial, and also the reform of the common agricultural policy, as it relates to the financial framework after 2013 and therefore to the money and the way we will manage in the future. i appreciate that france wants to address specific issues and problems, because that's exactly what people are burning and interested in. on institutional matters, i will speak now not as a member of the epp but as a member of the ed, so it is perhaps no surprise that we will not be in complete agreement here. i think we cannot stand before the lisbon treaty like a rabbit before a cobra. it's not the alpha and omega of everything, we're not creating an atmosphere of crisis, this situation has to be resolved calmly, without political pressure, without legal tricks and according to our own rules and our rules say that no treaty can enter into force without the consent of all, and that consent is not here at this moment. i do not think that without the treaty of lisbon further enlargement is impossible, i think that at least croatia can be accepted into the european union without the treaty of lisbon, and i do not think that we are faced with a choice between nice and lisbon. we have more options than that, and we have to be able to look at them soberly and without hysteria and be able to solve the situation. in any case, mr president, i wish you much success in your leadership of the european union.
ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all commend the speed and efficiency of the french presidency in negotiating a ceasefire between the parties to the conflict. the six-point program must now be put into action, including, of course, the withdrawal of russian troops to pre-conflict positions. however, the issue of georgia is not an isolated one, there are a number of interlinked conflicts and problems throughout the south caucasus region. the european union must therefore deal with the entire eastern mediterranean and transcaucasia region much more effectively and intensively than it has done so far. in other words, concrete steps must be taken to strengthen the eastern dimension of our neighbourhood policy. as a member from a country which has not yet ratified the treaty of lisbon, i would like to call on the czech republic, sweden and, of course, ireland to work hard to ratify this document, because this document is a prerequisite for a more coherent, more effective common foreign and security policy, so that we can face and solve the challenges, including those coming from the east and from russia.
in writing. from the very beginning of the problem of recognizing kosovo's independence, we have warned that this step is the beginning of a spiral whose negative consequences can be foreseen and whose end is difficult to see. the ksčm also expressed its opposition to the recognition of kosovo by the czech republic in the chamber of deputies of the parliament of the czech republic. those who played with fire then can hardly be surprised to have their fingers burned in another part of the globe, especially when they partnered with a troublemaker like president mikheil saakashvili. the solution to the current situation is to respect international law, which is particularly important for a small country like the czech republic with its historical experience. in this situation, it is completely wrong and dangerous for some politicians to evoke any phobia. the reaction of some nato states and the modification of relations with russia need to be confronted, for example, with russia's participation in the fight against international terrorism, and also with the fact that 70% of the supplies needed for the expeditionary forces in afghanistan are transported through the territory of the russian federation. that's certainly something that's being addressed at nato headquarters. it's not the words and gestures of power that will solve the situation, but the rational action at the round table.
ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive implementing the principle of equal treatment, which prohibits all forms of discrimination outside the workplace, is a redundant provision that we should not be discussing at all. i would point out that discrimination is already prohibited by three eu directives, the un charter of fundamental rights and freedoms, the eu charter of fundamental rights and the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. equal treatment is also regulated by the treaty of amsterdam and the lisbon strategy. i also point out that the directive requires two very dangerous things. it calls for affirmative action and calls for the principle of passing the burden of proof from the plaintiff to the defendant. this is contrary to european legal traditions and may lead to injustice and new injustices. ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that the european union is still a democratic and civilized cultural space, where people with real abilities really stand out, and a space that extends a helping hand to the weak. but the abilities that humans inherit from nature and develop through education are individual and different, and therefore logically unequal. if we try to regulate these kinds of inequalities, then we arrogantly ignore cultural differences and interfere with the natural development of society, and worst of all, we put equality above freedom of choice. therefore, the equal treatment directive should not have been created at all.
mr president, since the words have been spoken too little too late in the evaluation of the social package on many occasions, i shall add my own assessment: the mountain has given birth to a mouse. my question is, what have you been doing for four years? they put forward socially unacceptable proposals, culminating in the proposal for a directive on working time, which was so much praised by the council and the commission. the commission's proposal for a social package, despite some of its positive aspects, can only be seen as propaganda designed to make the european commission's head look 'social'. most of the proposals are not even discussed, so it's just a slap in the face. it was so easy to say out loud that the common market is for people and not people for the market that if binding rules for the conduct of firms in the market are to be established, then it is necessary to establish minimum rules for the status of eu employees, a minimum wage set as a percentage of the average wage in all member states, equal treatment and equal pay for employees working in a country other than their own. it was enough to declare that the union would promote respect for the international labour organisation conventions on maximum working hours, freedom of association and collective bargaining. competition between member states for lower taxes, lower wages and less clear regulation of trade union status continues to rage, and the open method of coordination is just another ineffective way of dealing with what no one wants to do. and to those who are criticising the french presidency, i would like to say: 'wait for the czech presidency. you'll see. a few weeks ago, the president vetoed a non-discrimination law, saying it was unnecessary.
mr president, i voted against the bowles report. there are three points i would like to stress. first, the report calls for better tax and fiscal coordination. i suppose it to be harmful to tax competition, because tax competition is sound and fruitful. second, the way to eliminate tax fraud is not through a reduction in competition but by the strict elimination of tax exemptions. third, tax fraud in vat should be eliminated by the unification of vat rates, which will result in the fast reduction of exemptions and loopholes. the bowles report offers different remedies. that is why i voted against.
in writing. i voted against the dublin evaluation report because i believe that it would not improve the system but would create obstacles to its effective functioning. in particular, i consider it necessary to warn against the introduction of automatic suspensive effect in appeals against decisions to transfer an applicant to another member state. similarly, a very restrained attitude towards the use of the detention institution to transfer an asylum seeker to the state responsible for examining his asylum application will certainly not contribute to making the system more efficient, but on the contrary to calling it into question and making it uncertain. the report thus seeks to remove or at least weaken the instruments by which the member states can ensure the enforceability of their decisions under the dublin system, and this cannot be accepted. doubtful, since no undefined human aspect in the assessment of asylum applications can lead to the member state's decisions being left on paper in the absence of the applicant's cooperation. i also cannot support the call for the introduction of european burden-sharing mechanisms, as i believe that the existing mechanisms for financial compensation of the countries with the highest number of asylum applications are fully sufficient and there is no reason to interfere with member states' sovereignty in the area of asylum by further regulation.
ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i welcome the report presented by mrs perez and the european commission. the statistics that show that women's employment has risen to 57.2% in recent years sound encouraging, but as the report shows, a number of problems remain. women still only account for one third of all executive positions in private companies and in other fields, including politics. a large proportion of the newly created jobs are not covered by indefinite contracts and are therefore uncertain in terms of prospects. and these are the positions that women very often get. they are still viewed as people whose main responsibility is to look after their families, while earnings from work are only a supplement to the family budget. this is why women are still paid less than men for the same work and the same qualifications. these stereotypes are still one of the tools of discrimination against women in labour markets. i also find it very insufficient that employers are willing to provide women with benefits to help them care for their families and at the same time facilitate their further professional and career growth.
ladies and gentlemen, it is no longer acceptable that within the european single market different national legislation applies to trade in dangerous substances in particular. the harmonisation of the classification and labelling of dangerous chemicals and mixtures is good news for consumers, as the proposed harmonisation will increase the protection of their health and the environment. it is good news for the competitiveness of european industry that this comprehensive regulation on the transport and supply of dangerous substances and their use will apply not only in the european union but also in other countries of the world, thanks to the un recommendations. the regulation builds on reach but, in addition, introduces a hazard class and category. the labels will contain handling instructions and mandatory graphic symbols and pictograms that will be understandable to people anywhere in the world. the new packaging and closure requirements will ensure protection against opening by children and will also allow for the marking for the blind. critics warn of the higher costs of relabelling, creating so-called safety data sheets and introducing new packaging technologies. however, i am convinced that these short-term costs will be lower than the long-term cost savings associated with the abolition of today's different branded products by destination. the implementation of the scheme, spread over the years 2010 to 2015, is also sufficiently economical for the industry. i very much appreciate that my colleague, amalia sartori, has managed to negotiate an excellent compromise within parliament and at the same time with the council. after many months of discussion on the reservations in the commission's proposal, it has managed to achieve a great improvement and balance and i therefore strongly urge that we adopt the proposal at first reading tomorrow. it is an example of the excellent work of parliament's rapporteurs with the council and commission teams.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, i was unpleasantly surprised to read the explanatory statement on the regulation in question. hydrogen makes it possible to store energy and to virtually eliminate a significant proportion of emissions. the directive also provides for inclusion in traditional systems. in layman's terms, it's about harnessing hydrogen by burning it. in addition to the problem of combustion of a methane-hydrogen mixture, which i know something about because my dissertation on combustion was concerned, it would be necessary to use urea to achieve the purity of the exhaust according to euro 5 to 6 to eliminate nitrous oxide when using conventional engines. one of the european union's goals is to expand the use of hydrogen in transport in the near future, and this is set to increase dramatically by 2020. it is true that the technical problems associated with the storage and handling of hydrogen require clear uniform regulations, including the labelling of systems that work with hydrogen. i agree with the reporter on that. in addition, i would like to point out that in many countries it is prohibited to park vehicles equipped with pressure vessels in enclosed garages, especially underground. that's why it's called a simple necessity. hydrogen fuel cells are one of the most promising experimental vehicle engines. a group of buses using this energy source has been operating in several cities in the european union for some time. i believe that the regulations which have been prepared and are under discussion will make it possible to harmonize the basic requirements for the technical equipment of hydrogen-powered motor vehicles. i hope that this will better define the scope for further rapid technical development and operational verification of individual elements of the hydrogen system in vehicles. this will greatly accelerate the practical use of hydrogen cells in particular, and hydrogen will not be used on a larger scale in so-called traditional systems, i.e. combustion engines, which is nonsensical in my opinion. with this reservation, i warmly recommend the material on behalf of the gue/ngl group for approval.
i abstained because the answer to the question: 'is it true that the sleeping city was attacked by georgian rocket launchers?' is 'yes'.
mr. chairman, i voted against the ban on cloning. the ban on cloning is an attack on freedom of scientific inquiry as well as freedom of enterprise. restricting these freedoms will not do the european union any good, but will lead to more scientists leaving for the united states and other countries in the world where these bans do not apply. the ban on trade in these products will then lead to further trade disputes within the world trade organization. that's not the kind of development i want. the health and other risks of cloning shall be properly assessed in accordance with the applicable procedures and procedures and the results of these assessments shall be made public. the european food safety authority carried out a scientific consultation on this subject in the first half of this year and the results of this consultation do not provide any grounds for a ban on cloning.
mr president, i voted against the svensson report, and i am grateful for the opportunity to say why. my reasons are as follows. first, no consumer knows everything, nor does any legislator. that is why advertising is a vital part of commerce and trade. second, each advertisement (unfortunately or fortunately) must be obtrusive, attractive, striking and eye-catching. this is the result of the fact that there are always at least a few producers selling the same product, and each of them wants to sell just its own product. third, ms svensson’s attempt is attentive to these principles and tries to improve market forces with artificial legislating steps, which will harm and distort natural market forces stemming from the supply and demand relationship. that is why i voted against.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on the european parliament's resolution on the situation in georgia not because i doubted the legitimacy of the georgian position, but because i approved of russia's incorrect and aggressive move. as has often happened recently, some euro-federalist meps have again used the conflict in georgia and the resolution to call for the accelerated ratification of the lisbon treaty. it was this incorrect procedure that led me to delay.
in writing. i voted against the report and against most of the amendments which seek to achieve equality between men and women in advertising in a planned and unified way, through six broad priority areas, and which deal with the way in which advertising encourages and reinforces certain types of discriminatory stereotypes which are designed to have a negative impact on equality between men and women. i voted against because this report is a serious threat and, moreover, a dangerous breakthrough in a field where there is a considerable individual and distinct specific culture in each member state. what is considered embarrassing or unacceptable in one country may be viewed as humorous or successful in another. on the contrary, the attempt to regulate the representation of both sexes in advertising throughout europe is to create some kind of sterile stereotype. the report makes extensive proposals for action that go far beyond the eu's remit. in the member states, there are self-regulatory bodies such as the advertising councils, through which the advertising industry itself gradually develops and modifies acceptable models of advertising. advertising, by contrast, is a typical area of self-regulation, reflecting national cultural traditions and customs and patterns in a much more sensitive way. and these can never be replaced by a unified and average external regulation, which can fundamentally damage the appeal of advertising as a fully legitimate and necessary area of national economies.
ladies and gentlemen, sanctions are an integral part of the european union's common foreign and security policy system, with the aim of enforcing respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. although the european union has been using a variety of sanctions tools for almost 20 years, no evaluation or impact study of the eu sanctions policy has been carried out to date. i therefore welcome the report by hélène flautrov as an important contribution to this. i welcome her many conclusions. i too believe that the european union's expertise and analytical capacity in sanctions decisions must be strengthened. the ratification of the treaty of lisbon and the creation of a european external action service provide an opportunity to do so. sanctions, when applied, should be part of the overall foreign policy concept, in other words, they should not be applied separately, on their own, without regard to other foreign policy instruments and without cooperation with other actors of the international system. sanctions should also be accompanied by positive measures and incentives to promote human rights, civil society and democracy. finally, sanctions should not apply to humanitarian aid. sanctions should target specific persons, for example to restrict their movement, to confiscate their property, rather than the victims of their malicious conduct.
ladies and gentlemen, i fully agree with the assessment of the environment and health plan in the report by mrs ries. like the rapporteur, i believe that the plan is almost impossible to evaluate and that it is doomed to failure. some of its goals, such as suicide prevention and communication strategies on the impact of climate change on human health, are admirable. the plan is poorly secured both financially and, above all, organizationally. the actions taken are vague and raise doubts and questions instead of answers. in addition, the document is duplicated with a similar plan of the world health organization. the european environment and health action plan is thus unfortunately just another subject of justified criticism for waste of taxpayers' money and unnecessary bureaucracy from brussels. i believe that the commission should immediately stop implementing this plan, work more closely with the world health organization and not announce the next cycle of the european health plan at all.
author. − mr president, let me just stress that in september 2006 the commission adopted a proposal for a framework directive on soil protection with the aim of protecting soil across the european union. this proposal resulted in a very lively and interesting discussion in my committee – the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the rapporteur, mrs christina gutiérrez-cortines, worked hard to find a compromise. a first-reading position was adopted by the european parliament on 14 november 2007. since then it has been unclear when the council will be able to adopt a common position and when this will be communicated to the european parliament. at the beginning of june my committee, therefore, put an oral question to the council to learn more about the progress achieved in the council since the adoption of parliament’s position. on behalf of my committee, i would like to ask the council to elaborate on the progress achieved. furthermore, my committee would like to know when the council, according to current planning, will be able to communicate its common position on the framework directive on soil protection to the european parliament.
ladies and gentlemen, six years ago, we launched the global harmonization of accounting rules and competition in the european banking sector. cross-border financial integration in the union is unprecedented in the world. financial analysts have long warned that the european union is ill-equipped to deal with cross-border crises linked to the increasing interdependence of european banks and their interconnection with the global financial market. the european central bank has so far managed to maintain the financial stability of the euro area, but fragmented national regulators cannot effectively deal with the cross-border banking crises that lie ahead. centralized oversight is simply necessary. however, instead of an all-encompassing financial regulator, we should carefully define the specific conditions for the intervention of a pan-european regulator. the state intervention in investment banks such as aig also raises concerns that this precedent will lead to irresponsible behaviour by banks in the future. that is why i believe we need to come up with controls that prevent investment and hedge fund managers from misjudging operational and systemic risks. for example, it should not be possible for hedge funds and private equity funds to hedge long-term investments with short-term loans and not to set a minimum level of share capital according to the riskiness of their business. the way mortgages are financed not only in the us, but also in the uk and spain, is a warning that the european financial market is about to undergo a major self-reflection, which i fear will come one minute after twelve. even if the european commission were to come forward tomorrow with concrete binding legislation, its implementation would already be taking place in an atmosphere of turmoil and perhaps hysteria, rather than calm. and the question is how the council will take it.
mr president, i was elected to the european parliament in a former communist country. what we thought was long gone is surprisingly being experienced again here in the eu. it is a strange déjà vu. i lived through the entire communist era in my country, and our lives were carefully divided into years, months, weeks and days dedicated to someone or something. we had a year of folk culture, we had a month of books, we had a month of czechoslovak-soviet friendship, we had a week of space, we had a miner's day, whenever we woke up in the morning, our day, week or month belonged to someone other than us. our lives have been one big, never-ending campaign. the campaigning was to cover up the lack of freedom and the lack of oranges and meat. we have plenty of oranges and meat in the european union, but the union is still tempted to achieve results not by patient, quiet work but by campaigning. how does the european union intend to make more use of creativity that comes from invention, talent, genius or at least a good idea? all we're going to achieve is the satisfaction of hundreds of other new ngos. ngos, this strange disease of our democracy, where non-elected and non-authorized people can get our money because they're doing the public good. they're happy to use up the budget for this year's campaign. they use taxpayers' money to buy thousands of flyers, lots of posters, events and seminars. only creativity will remain the same after that year. mr. chairman, i have a suggestion. instead of a year of innovation and creativity, let's make it a year of ordinary, no-campaign, uninterrupted work. a year without campaigning, and it's a relief. thank you, sir.
in writing. the report on concentration and pluralism of the media in the european union, which parliament is presenting on its own initiative, is very serious, very necessary and in many places accurately describes the situation that has existed in the czech republic for many years. i would like to draw particular attention to two aspects of this passage which the report rightly criticises in general and calls for correction. the first is the almost complete concentration of the daily press in the hands of foreign, specifically german, corporations whose economic and political interests are clearly contrary to the objectively given interests of the czech republic, especially with regard to the plurality of opinion and the independence of the media. it became a fiction in the czech environment. the reality is a sharp right-wing bias and boundless manipulation. the second aspect is the behaviour of the public television, which serves exclusively the interests of the current right-wing government and whose news and publicity is so biased that it is no longer possible to speak of so-called public television. i therefore recommend that the institutions and bodies dealing with the concentration and plurality of media in the eu pay particular attention to the czech republic in this respect.
ladies and gentlemen, this weekend, the ambassador of the czech republic, whose citizens i represent here, was the victim of a bomb attack in pakistan. three czech soldiers were injured in a missile attack in afghanistan yesterday. so, in these days, terrorism has directly affected the citizens of my country. there is no doubt that this is one of the most insidious and dangerous phenomena of civilization, and that we must not give in to this cowardly and vile evil, but must fight it. yet the fight against terrorism must not become an all-encompassing charm that can be worn by anything. for all the bloody consequences of terrorism, you can't put everyday suspicious, fearful security above freedom. that is why i reject the european commission's proposal to make incitement to commit a terrorist act itself a criminal offence. the proposal seeks to punish oral and written speech and thus clearly threatens freedom of expression and fundamental human rights. that's unacceptable to me as a democratic politician.
ladies and gentlemen, terrorism represents one of the most serious threats to democracy, economic and social development in europe and the world. unfortunately, modern information and communication technologies play an important role in the spread of the threat of terrorism. the cheap, fast, easily accessible and globally reachable internet is often exploited by terrorists to spread terrorist information and to recruit new members and sympathizers. i therefore welcome the amendment to the council framework decision on combating terrorism, inter alia because it covers the offences of incitement to commit offences, recruitment for terrorism and training for terrorism. i also welcome this amendment because i believe that an international response to the international threat of terrorism must be sought. no european union country can tackle this problem on its own. a coordinated effort by all member states is needed. but in a democracy, in a democratic union of european states, the fight against terrorism must be conducted within the framework of a democratic rule of law, with respect for human and civil rights. i therefore support the complementary proposals of both our rapporteurs to strengthen these very elements. finally, i would like to call on all the parties, the council, the commission and parliament, to adopt the compromise proposal as soon as possible.
the rapporteur. ladies and gentlemen, in all areas of transport, there is a long tradition of careful investigation of the causes of serious accidents. each member state shall take such investigations and the identification of technical causes as a matter of course in order to reduce the accident rate. the only exception so far is shipping. although there are some framework regulations, maritime transport is much more complex than other modes of transport in terms of determining the state responsible for investigating the causes of an accident. the owner of the vessel does not have to be the operator of the vessel, so they can both come from different countries. the crew may be of various nationalities. passengers may also have different nationalities. the same applies to cargo, and the same applies to the transport agent. the ship leaves a port in the territorial waters of one state, sails to another, and passes through the territorial waters of other states or international waters en route. to make matters less complicated, some countries have organized the commissions of inquiry we are calling for into different state organizations. they are not independent, nor are they organizational. the investigation of maritime accidents was discussed with the shadow rapporteurs and the bureau. the committee on transport and tourism agreed that it was desirable to maintain the basic features of the draft directive. this is a single investigation according to a common methodology, with deadlines to be set for the designation of the state to carry out the investigation and for the submission of the final report. it is, of course, possible to discuss which class of accidents will be investigated under the adopted methodology and how to define precisely the organisational independence of the committee of inquiry. during the discussion of the material, we agreed that the conclusions of the technical investigation could be used for other purposes, such as criminal investigations. however, the details of the technical investigation must remain confidential. the committee also clarified that a provision requiring the proper treatment of the crew of a ship involved in a maritime accident cannot be omitted, unless it is precluded by the inclusion of such a provision in other regulations. it is also agreed that an independent commission of inquiry must be composed of experts from several countries and that individual states may have mutual representation agreements in the investigation of maritime accidents. i would like to stress that one of the main objectives of the maritime package under discussion is to strengthen the responsibility of the flag state. it is therefore appropriate that the proposed wording concerning rapid information on technical deficiencies identified should remain part of the directive as well as the specifications of the ships covered by that directive. i do not think it would be a good idea, after the experience of the tanker accidents off the spanish coast, to continue to allow several technical committees of inquiry to work in parallel. if the european commission does not feel sufficiently well-informed to decide to conduct an investigation, then the only option left is to implement this decision in the european council. i think it's a bad idea to allow several parallel technical investigations. the ongoing investigation into the prestige oil tanker disaster shows us where this kind of alibi-based diversion of responsibility leads. it is appropriate that the entire maritime package be discussed at the same time, as this avoids the difference in the definition of the individual concepts between the directives which form part of it and thus improves the uniformity of the resulting material. i believe that, in the case of the maritime disaster directive, we can also find a reasonable compromise that will be practical and will help to reduce the likelihood of further maritime disasters, or, if necessary, to ensure a thorough investigation, including technical follow-up.
the reporter. - let's try to summarize, please, why the sea package should be treated as a whole. it is not a set of reports from which the council and the commission can choose something, move something forward, leave something in abeyance, wait for the next presidency or the next one to take it over. first of all, it is necessary to specify in all cases, in all these reports, the same ship to which all the proposals relate. there were discrepancies in the first reports. i'm warning you again. secondly, security is indivisible, which is why the responsibility of the flag state needs to be strengthened. this responsibility must be clearly specified, it is not possible to move this package forward without flag state responsibility. third, the decent treatment of a ship's crew in distress must be generally accepted. whether someone accepted the imo or not is incidental. fourthly, the environment is such an important value that the debate about who is responsible for maritime transport in the event of a ship's problems must end and the alibi must be set aside. there's just one person in each state who decides where a ship in distress can go. fifthly, when an accident occurs, it must be clear within a given deadline who will carry out the technical investigation, who is the responsible state, when the final report will be submitted and what the structure of the report will be, otherwise we are playing a game of total nonsense here. the independence of the inquiry commission is a self-evident requirement. and sixthly, if i may, commissioners and ministers, listen not only to the wishes of the european parliament but also to the wishes of the citizens of the union and respect the maritime package as a whole.
mr president, for several years now the state of the tropical rainforests has been alarming and it is impossible to ignore the ruthless plundering of this key component of the biosphere of our planet. sadly, legislation to combat illegal tropical timber harvesting is facing serious obstacles in europe, while 13 million hectares of forest are reportedly lost every year, which of course contributes a lot to the growth of co2 emissions. i fully support the call for environmental protection requirements to be incorporated into the european union's common commercial policy. i very much appreciate the emphasis that the lucas report also places on the dissemination of information on the catastrophic consequences of deforestation. this is the kind of treaty that parliament has to ratify, and it is important that we discuss every year the commission's report on the implementation of this international treaty, that is to say on the state of deforestation, here on the floor of the european parliament. unfortunately, we can no longer prevent or stop climate change, but it is our responsibility to at least slow it down. this treaty, while incomplete, is a step in the right direction.
the change of the rules of procedure appears to be a technical matter, but in reality it is a matter of strengthening or weakening democratic legitimacy. two precedents in which the presidents of the european parliament were not required to follow the opinion of the european parliament's committee on legal affairs have shown a loophole in our rules. i will support the compromise version of rule 121 which ensures that the president in such a case presents a different position to the conference of presidents and then to the plenary. but i think it would be right for him to defend and promote his arguments before the legal affairs committee rather than the chairmen of the other committees. it is a pity that the amendment to the article says nothing about whether a group of members can propose a third alternative to the plenary or whether the plenary can only confirm or reject a different procedure proposed by the president or the conference of presidents. it's a new precedent that will test the future, and i don't think it's about bureaucracy, but democracy.
ladies and gentlemen, europe has recently become accustomed to relatively strong economic growth and prosperity. i'm afraid that period is over, at least temporarily. the main priorities of the commission, parliament and the council should therefore be to restore economic growth and strengthen social cohesion in the coming year. the system of supervision of financial markets in the union needs to be improved, and more effective economic and tax coordination, including coordination of the direct tax system, and clear measures against tax fraud, must be pursued. a comprehensive energy external policy proposal, including active support for the building of energy infrastructure, needs to be urgently put forward. in times of economic uncertainty, the commission also needs to reaffirm its commitment to promoting social rights in a much stronger way than before, and i need not remind you that the main priority next year should also be to complete the ratification of the lisbon treaty and, of course, its implementation.
for the group gue/ngl. ladies and gentlemen, when india became independent in 1947, its 18% literacy rate, its unstable political environment and its level of economic development gave no indication of the problems we would be facing in 60 years' time. yes, the problems of developing a country are far from solved. there are still many millions of illiterate, unemployed, and marginalized people. but we are dealing with a nuclear power with a gdp growth rate of around 8% for many years. this is a country that urgently needs to build dozens of power plants, modernize the basic rail and road network, solve the problems of small towns. small towns in india are those that have a population of about a million people, so we know what we're talking about. there is still a lot of demographic pressure in some parts of the country, but outsourcing is also on the table today. indian companies are taking over skilled jobs from the european union, software jobs, for example in accounting, and many of these jobs are done by workers who are based in india. many countries import skilled specialists. we've become accustomed to the largest steel company in the european union lakshmi mittala. we already know of other industrial companies that are starting to look into our market. the problems within saarc are far from being resolved, and the delicate kashmir issue is also on the negotiating table. but there are positive steps here and it seems that the topics to be discussed are in the political and economic sphere of the dozen. one of them is the gas pipeline that is supposed to connect iran, pakistan, india. here and in many other cases we have common interests. security, energy security and peaceful international cooperation, that's a good sign before the summit.
it is true that the absence of a functioning competitive environment in the telecommunications sector makes the adoption of a new regulatory framework a desirable, if not necessary, step. i consider the solution chosen in the area of functional separation based on the voluntary principle to be a definite contribution. each member state will thus be able to decide whether to adopt functional separation or to maintain the status quo, taking into account local conditions. personally, i am reluctant to adopt a position on functional separation, both because i have not had sufficient experience of it and because i consider competition between different types of networks to be more important than competition within a single network, which is what the union's action should aim to encourage. in some cases, however, the regulation goes too far. for example, i cannot agree that the european commission has a veto power over remedies taken by national regulators within its market. it is contrary to the principle of separation of powers for the commission to intervene in matters which have a national rather than a european dimension. i would like to see a balanced legislative framework reflecting the needs of both operators and their customers, with no room for self-regulation, but only for regulation that helps to improve the quality and availability of telecommunications services.
i must admit that i was surprised by the contradictions in the debate on amendment no 138, where some of my colleagues were unable to interpret the amendment in accordance with its text. as a co-author, i want to emphasize that the provision guarantees that the disconnection of users from the internet only occurs with the consent of the judicial authorities. however, the rights of users may be infringed where necessary for reasons of general security. the fundamental right of users to privacy shall not be infringed by blocking or filtering content without the consent of the competent public authorities. this proposal was prompted, or i was prompted, by the examples of france, where the ministry of european affairs website and the train reservation website of the paris city council were blocked on the public network for misidentifying their content as pornographic. i thank my colleagues for finally supporting our balanced proposal, and france for having to bow to it.
as shadow rapporteur, i am pleased that bert, the office of the european telecommunications regulator, will save european taxpayers tens of millions of euros a year as a result of the changes adopted by the european parliament. contrary to the commission's proposal, the new institution is more streamlined and flexible, making the most of the benefits of the single market while preserving the independence of the national telecommunications authorities. i'm glad that my initiative has significantly strengthened the position of consumer organizations. i also supported the broad consensus on the question of financing the office's budget, but i would also point out again the risks that may arise from the different levels of contributions from the member states. this can lead to an imbalance of influence between member states, the large ones, in deciding on the cross-border regulation of their telecommunications.
mr president, the report just voted on follows on from my own report on consumer confidence in the digital environment, which was published a year ago, and i therefore acknowledge that the rights of end-users and consumers are being significantly strengthened. i particularly appreciate that we've been able to get things like number portability in one day, which is boosting the stagnant mobile market, and the 112 hotline will have caller location, which is saving more lives. the pan-european 116 line will be extended beyond the area of missing children, there will be a breakthrough in the transparency of contracts and quoted prices, it will be easier to terminate a contract early, security software will be more easily accessible to ordinary users, equal access will be guaranteed for disabled users and spam will be more strictly defined, and many other improvements.
ladies and gentlemen, let me express my disappointment at the dispute which did not end yesterday with the commission regarding the legal basis for the approval of this international agreement on the sustainable and legal extraction of tropical timber. i believe that it should be ratified by parliament and not just consulted. the contract is incomplete, but we have nothing else yet, which is why i'm glad we agreed to it so unequivocally today. we are opposing the deforestation of tropical forests, but i am afraid that millions of tonnes of tropical timber will continue to be dumped into europe because environmental requirements are not being incorporated into european trade policy. it's a paradox because we pride ourselves on being the flagship of the world's carbon reduction. something's not right. maybe the right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing, or vice versa.
the current state of the digital content market is intolerable, it's fragmented, it's rigid because of monopolies. that is why i appreciated the commission's focus in july on the practices of collective management organisations. i'm concerned about unfair contract terms not only for the authors, but also for the users. i would like to believe that now czech citizens and other citizens from smaller countries will be able to buy their favorite songs, digital books or tv series online, for example from itunes and other virtual stores, across borders, which they really can't do today. i want to believe that authors will be free to choose their collective management organisation from any member state and that this will force those collective management organisations to improve the quality of their services and reduce their operating costs. i wish collective management could in return offer licences without the limitation of the home country's borders, including a pan-european licence, but it's not that easy. i don't believe that the commission's sting in the wasp's nest in july will really start the systemic change in the digital content market. i am asking the commission to commission an independent study on collective management organisations as a whole and to submit to parliament a directive which will adjust the whole system in a comprehensive way, on the basis of a proper analysis of all the specifics of this type.
commissioner, today's global financial crisis has revealed the importance of fair value, i.e. the real value of a business, for the sound functioning of financial markets. it's crucial information for both shareholders and creditors. the monitoring committee could contribute to enhancing the transparency and comparability of financial reporting and thereby reinforcing the personal responsibility of shareholders for making sound economic decisions. international standardisation clearly leads to the development of cross-border capital markets and therefore, for reasons of stability, the monitoring group should also take preventive measures against cyclical fluctuations and help prevent systemic risk. the proposal to set up a group is not contested. its competencies are not clarified, for example whether it will also have control functions. i also consider it important that each country has its delegate in the proposed monitoring group, which must also include representatives of major institutions, in order to reflect the balance of the world's major monetary areas, cultural diversity and the interests of both developed and emerging economies and international institutions that are accountable to public authorities. it is a pity that parliament was not consulted in advance as is the norm.
ladies and gentlemen, as you are all aware, the forthcoming czech presidency will be held under the banner of a europe without barriers. in this context, i am very pleased that the commission, in cooperation with the european court of justice, has succeeded in producing a proposal that breaks down one of the barriers, namely the provision of healthcare. i welcome the fact that the negotiations so far have brought the solution of the problem closer to the citizens. as a doctor, i would very much like to see the necessary documents approved as soon as possible, but i believe that this is a complex issue to which the old roman proverb applies: "go slowly". at present, i see the following basic points for discussion. first, we agree that it is necessary to ensure the legal protection of patients who have the right to receive healthcare within the european union in accordance with the case law of the court of justice. second, it is not possible for a directive to create new powers for the commission because they are not necessary. thirdly, i consider it wrong that the basic purpose was to ensure the free movement of healthcare services, but the text of the directive itself deals primarily with the movement of patients when receiving non-acute healthcare. the next round of negotiations is an opportunity not only for the czech presidency but also for europe.
mr. chairman, i would just like to say on the record that i voted for the fogliett report, but my voting system failed.
in writing. − as regards citizen and alternative media, i believe that there is no doubt that they can contribute to increasing media pluralism and informing citizens. the practice in most eu member states, i think, clearly shows that freedom of speech has become more of a myth and that the so-called commercial media has the face that its owner wants it to have. the objective of information in public media is often strongly determined by the interests of political power- wielders, irrespective of the status and legal framework established for such media. it is all the more important that, in the case of citizen and alternative media, their misuse beyond the limits of the mission which such media are supposed to have is prevented. i agree that these media deserve universal legal recognition in eu countries. however, the rules that will regulate their activities must be set from the outset so that citizen and alternative media cannot be misled about their mission, their social role.
ladies and gentlemen, the representatives of the commission and the member states of the union are faced with two temptations next week. first, they should recognise that the lisbon treaty is dead and that any pressure to change the minds of irish citizens is unacceptable and they should stop the ratification process. and second, top politicians should realize that no lunch is free. they should immediately stop playing the role of messiahs who, at the cost of gambling with free markets and taxpayers' money, will save the eu economy. the costs of the bankers' mismanagement should be borne by the shareholders and the management of the banks. ladies and gentlemen, at this moment, politicians are providing massive guarantees for irresponsible bankers. they're creating a moral hazard. government guarantees for banks are a laughingstock for taxpayers and the so-called small and medium-sized enterprises. and the only message they send to big investors is that they're entitled to fat returns, but they're not taking any risks and, most importantly, they're not taking any responsibility. but politicians charge a high price for this help in the form of market regulation. it won't stop the crisis, it'll just postpone it. moreover, if we deviate from the rules of fair competition, we create a jungle. ladies and gentlemen, we are facing an economic downturn and rising unemployment. and with that comes a tough test for political elites to not fall for the populism that always offers easy solutions. in the 1930s, europe failed to survive and failed. i firmly believe that we will now stand.
mr. president, we could have been outlining foreign policy, arguing about the southern dimension and the eastern dimension. on august 21st, we czechoslovaks celebrated the 40th anniversary of the soviet invasion of czechoslovakia with a debate on georgia. the eastern dimension is a reality, we cannot escape it, and therefore we must act. politics is not a concert, politics is context, and we have context. that is why we must fully support belarus's move towards europe, and that is why i fully support the motion for a resolution as it stands. we must not isolate belarus, we must not declare belarus a democracy. after belarus, we must clearly demand the abolition of the death penalty, the return of students to universities, the possibility of the return without punishment of those who refuse to serve in the belarusian armed forces, the registration of non-governmental organisations. and what do we have to do? we must indicate that we meet the copenhagen criteria, we must act like europe.
mr. president, there have been several important changes in belarus in recent weeks. the most notable of these was the release of political prisoners, including alexander kozulin, sergei parsukyevich and andrei kim. however, the parliamentary elections did not meet international democratic standards. what's in it for us? i believe that the european union should support the development of belarusian civil society, the concept of democracy and human and civil rights much more than it has done so far. i believe that we should also consider increasing financial support, for example to independent media, ngos, independent trade unions, etc. support to belarusian civil society should include the reduction or elimination of visa fees for belarusian citizens, in particular young people and students. as already mentioned here, 60 euros, which is the average belarusian's weekly salary, i think we should consider.
ladies and gentlemen, the arctic is the only region in the world for which there are still no multilateral standards and regulations. but interest in the region, its geopolitical and strategic importance, has been growing unprecedentedly recently. the arctic has seen an increase in commercial and tourist shipping, a growing interest in its mineral wealth, and climate change with negative impacts on indigenous lifestyles and biodiversity. for all these reasons, it would be appropriate to negotiate the arctic at international level with a view to drawing up a similar treaty for the protection of the arctic, modelled on the 1993 madrid treaty on antarctica. three arctic countries are members of the european union, and two others are part of the european economic area. the european union should therefore play a key role in future international negotiations on the arctic. at the moment, as we have heard, the european commission is preparing a communication on arctic policy. in the joint motion for a resolution we have drawn up, we call on the commission to address all these aspects. we also consider it necessary to create a zone free of military forces and nuclear weapons in the arctic and the arctic ocean, as diana wallis has already said. and we also ask the commission to consider whether, in order to achieve these objectives, it should create a specialised department for the arctic to deal with all these problems.
draft report of the committee on employment and social affairs. - mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, health, along with freedom, is the highest value for most of us. health is the prerequisite for a happy life for the individual and for the success of society. it must be repeated and emphasized that the health of oneself and those close to one is the personal responsibility of each one of us. health is the result of genetic influences and lifestyle and environment. health is influenced by one's upbringing, habits, diet, exercise, work environment, and home. health is the last thing that health care does. the question of the protection of public health is rightly a matter for the community. health services, their organisation, quality and financing are the responsibility of the member states of the union. our common goal is high quality and safety and broad access to health care for everyone who needs it. each country is finding its own way to provide the best health care for its citizens in this challenging environment. the added value of the european union is the diversity of these independent systems, the possibility of sharing successes and avoiding the mistakes of our friends. health care is a very broad issue, as my speakers have shown, and i am therefore personally sorry that it is not clear here in the european parliament who is really concerned with health and health care. we understand healthcare as services in the internal market, social security and public health. on the occasion of the debate on this important document, i would like to invite the presidency and each of us to consider the possibility of setting up a european parliament health committee in the next parliamentary term.
in writing. as regards the report on the use of the union's symbols, i must say that it is yet another example of the circumvention of democratic procedures in the european union. the symbols of the union of the time fell together with the rejection of the proposal for the so-called european constitution. while the constitution and its main content are to be essentially 'enlivened' by the lisbon treaty, the european parliament is now trying to resuscitate the symbolism of the union. and i have to ask myself: what are the european institutions and bodies going to do in cases of abuse of this symbolism? for example, the world was recently shocked by the conclusions of the georgian president, who had not only a georgian flag but also an eu flag in his office when he started the conflict with russia. that's not acceptable.
i would like to say at the outset that i will vote in favour of the proposal because its wording seems to be the maximum that could be achieved. i would consider the next step to be a thorough examination of the practice of the member states. in some of them, while there is a good deal of legislation on the status of agency staff, there is a complete lack of regulation on the granting of accreditation to emerging agencies. in other words, anyone can hire people, and there is virtually no control over the activities of some of these dubious agencies. i'm talking, of course, about the practice in the czech republic. in order to make money, agencies often employ workers not on the basis of employment contracts but on the basis of work activity agreements, so that they do not have to pay social and health insurance for their employees. this leads to the conclusion that if earnings are based on respecting the minimum wage, then it is clear that workers are left with much less money after paying contributions. it is suspected that the number of agency employees is constantly increasing at the expense of those who work in a regular employment relationship in the employing organisation. it is therefore the task of labour inspection bodies and trade unions to point out unfair practices in certain countries and not to allow the right of agency workers to organise to be restricted. despite the goodwill shown in the wording of the proposed directive, much remains to be done to move beyond the paper. and i would say, in relation to what has been said here, that i would employ some members of the european parliament as agency workers to experience the delight of it.
mr president, the number of europeans connected to the internet is growing exponentially. children are spending more and more time online, and criminal activity on websites is growing at a similar rate, and is easily accessible to the youngest generation. with over 500,000 images of child pornography in the interpol database at present, half of children have been exposed to pornography and only 4% of parents admit to their children having access to pornography i think the budget for a safe internet is under-sized. investments are needed in the development of computer systems that effectively prevent adverse events in the embryo. the european union must join forces with the united states and japan in this area. the current isolated projects must be replaced by measures involving both children and parents, schools, telecommunications operators, government institutions or ngos. on the other hand, i appreciate the network of hotlines created where citizens and parents can report objectionable content on the internet, as is the case in the czech republic, for example, under the management of the ngo our child.
ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, one of the valuable qualities of this house is the success of achieving consistency. i do not agree with the challenge to the posting of workers directive. what is needed, rather, is to adhere to it consistently. the judgments of the european court of justice also provide a clear direction. this report on collective agreements challenges these judgments and the compromise reached in the negotiations on the services directive in the european parliament. i can't support that. what makes dumping possible is illegal employment and circumvention of the directive. therefore, please support our amendments, which refer to the legislation in force. businesses have the right to provide services across borders under the terms of the directive in force, and i agree that people, employees, need to know about this.
the debate on the rate and pace of raising environmental, social and other standards and the revision of european regulation is what i see as the key to tackling the economic recession that the european economy will now face. mr schulz was quoting with derision the commitment of the commission and the council, but also of parliament, to reduce the over-regulation of the union. and it is this negative added value that is undermining the eu's global competitiveness. the automotive, electronics, glass, textile and other industries need not financial injections but a reasonable degree of regulation. the financial crisis is not the result of a little regulation, but a failure of the control mechanisms. and that's what's not protecting investment and threatening employment. and the same goes for rules on a global level. the crisis and the global economic recession are an opportunity to cultivate more consistently the rules for global markets, not just european ones, with a view to sustainable and ecologically and socially appropriate development. this is the environment we must create for europeans on a global scale. otherwise, i welcome the council's agreement on the energy package.
i welcome the proposal to create a global climate change alliance between the european union and the least developed countries and small island developing states. they say that up to 80 billion dollars is needed to adapt to climate change, because the key, of course, would be to stop deforestation in the tropics. of our €60 million, less than 1% is still relevant for the most vulnerable countries if it is used effectively. the alliance is an opportunity to act as a reference and methodological point for the preventive management of the risks of natural hazards posed by climate change to the poorest countries. the biggest weakness is the lack of coordination of an excessive amount of activities. the alliance should not replace humanitarian aid but help to minimise the scale of expected disasters by supporting innovative programmes, strengthening administrative structures at national and local levels, and providing training to the population of island states at risk.
unfortunately, divorce is a dark side of european civilization, and so-called international divorces are on the rise. it's always the children who suffer the most. in addition, cross-border divorces create tensions over which country will conduct the proceedings that decide the children's future. i supported this regulation, which will provide clearer rules for international married couples seeking divorce, as it will be possible for both parties to choose, by agreement, the competent court and thus the law of the member state with which they have a relationship. this is particularly important in a situation where the spouses live in a country other than that of either of them. the legal standards vary considerably between member states, so it is a further improvement that the european parliament has added a task for the commission to build a public internet information system with all the details. it should be stressed that, unfortunately, there are already one hundred and seventy thousand couples and their children who are affected by crossborder divorces each year.
ladies and gentlemen, i consider the council's decision not to resume negotiations with russia on a strategic partnership to be unreasonable, short-sighted and detrimental to the citizens of the union. i would point out that this is a partner on whose supply of raw materials europe depends. and it's not just gas and oil, for example, without titanium from russia, you can't make an airbus. moreover, and this is even worse, the current european russophobia is based not on facts, but on their political and media interpretation. i should point out that the conflict in the caucasus was started by georgia, regardless of the consequences, not russia. moreover, i do not know why the independence of south ossetia and abkhazia cannot be respected when many of the members of the union immediately and with great joy recognized the independence of kosovo. i am glad that vaclav klaus, the president of the czech republic, which i represent here, has put a realistic name to the situation when he said that there is no golden georgia and no evil russia. unfortunately, he was the only one. if the union wants to be a strategic partner and a global player, it has no choice but to grant the same to russia. confrontational politics can't benefit anyone, you know.
at an extraordinary summit on 1 september, the european union committed to re-launch negotiations on a new partnership agreement with russia after russian troops withdraw from georgian territory to their positions of 7 august. in order to give the union a say and confirm that it is a predictable partner, the only criterion for the opening of talks should be to assess whether russian troops are behind the positions of 7 august. russia has not yet fulfilled this condition. the resumption of talks must under no circumstances be interpreted as our approval of russian policy in the caucasus and the ongoing de facto blockade of talks on the future order of the region. we need to keep the resumption of talks and their continuation strictly separate. the partnership and cooperation agreement is the key document establishing our relations with russia. the union needs a new partnership agreement, and i believe russia needs it even more. the new agreement, which improves both the quality and the quantity of the existing text, is both a condition and a reflection of the quality of our relations with the russian federation. it is therefore crucial that the way we conduct our conversations clearly reflect our attitudes and values. i believe that, after an objective and unanimous assessment that russia has withdrawn from its positions of 7 august, the european union should start talks as promised. however, their continuation should be conditional on at least a clear commitment by russia not to use force against georgia or any of its neighbours and to resolve disputes concerning the common neighbourhood in agreement with the european union. the very readiness of russia to approach the solution of the problems in the caucasus, ukraine and moldova together, and not unilaterally and by force, must be the litmus test for us to continue negotiations with russia.
europe and the world are facing a number of serious global challenges. there is the proliferation of nuclear weapons, international terrorism, global warming, the unresolved conflicts in the middle east, afghanistan, the global financial crisis, and many other problems. none of them can be solved by the european union alone. it needs the cooperation of other international actors, including russia. but russia also needs cooperation and dialogue. russia needs to sell its mineral resources, it needs to buy western technology, knowledge, consumer goods and many more. only then will russia have a chance to modernize and gradually reform its economy and its society. cooperation with russia creates a common future between the european union and the russian federation. but this requires dialogue, and dialogue at all levels, from energy policy, to reciprocal investment activities, and of course also to dialogue on human and civil rights and democracy. i consider the european council's decision to continue its assessment of eu-russia relations ahead of the forthcoming nice summit to be the right one. the union has given a clear signal that it is ready to resume talks with russia on a new partnership and cooperation agreement. however, this is conditional on russia's compliance with the agreements of 12 august and 8 september.
clean cars are an important and legitimate objective, but municipalities already have the possibility to take environmental considerations into account in public transport procurement. and they do. this directive does not add any new value to the environment, but is an unnecessary administrative burden for municipalities and regions. member states have committed to a 20% reduction in emissions and it might be better to leave it to them to decide whether they prefer to invest in insulation or other things. just leave it to the regions. nobody here has told the truth. it's about how to secure sales for the european automotive industry, which we've burdened with demands to reduce emissions. that means it's about who's going to buy those expensive cars in a situation where consumption is going down, when we're going into a recession. and so we are shifting that burden to the municipalities and the regions with this directive. and i just don't agree with it. so i ask you, colleagues, to support us in our view that this motion should be rejected outright.
mr. chairman, allow me, as a former mayor, to present my negative position on the bill under discussion. such a landfill is unnecessary and unnecessary for several reasons: it is contrary to the rules of the free market, it interferes with the subsidiarity of local authorities, which should determine their own priorities, the conditions of the selection procedure already include environmental requirements and very carefully monitor the emissions of vehicles, and fourthly, we will achieve a minimum effect at a very high price, the administrative burden of the town halls will increase and bureaucracy will increase. it is better to use the funds of municipalities that are under stress, for example, to insulate buildings, increase the insulation properties of windows, replace lighting sources with modern ones. this will lead to much greater efficiency and savings in terms of environmental and climate protection.
for the group gue/ngl.i would first like to thank the rapporteur very sincerely for the great amount of work she has done on this report and in particular for the successful effort, perhaps a successful effort, to negotiate a compromise with the council and the commission. i would also like to thank the commission for directing its efforts towards the unification of the administration in the field of medicines approval and thank it for the fact that this should be reflected in ensuring greater safety for patients. it is clear that harmonisation of legislation at european level in the field of medicinal product authorisation is essential. therefore, in order to prevent adverse effects on human health, we need uniform administrative rules for all medicinal products on the internal market. i therefore welcome the intention of this legislative proposal to ensure that all medicines on the market are subject to the same criteria, including most of those medicines which are approved at purely national level. let me now turn to the question of purely national registrations in more detail. although i was in favour of strictly uniform criteria, i believe that the text of amendment no 36, which allows the continuation of the application of national rules to purely national authorisations of medicinal products granted before 1 january 1998, is sufficiently balanced and provides sufficient guarantees, such as the need to inform the commission of the decision to continue the application of national rules or the need to switch to european rules if the medicinal product is already authorised in another member state, so as not to hinder harmonisation at pan-european level. as regards the application of one application for one or more identical amendments, i believe that it will bring some relief to the large pharmaceutical companies, which is certainly a good thing. however, i am not so sure that the reduction of administrative burdens in individual member states will have a positive effect. this negative effect may have to be removed in the future. despite some minor reservations, some of which i have expressed, i regard the text that has emerged from the negotiations as a positive step forward in the field of medicines authorization and, knowing that it is a compromise that has been reached with great difficulty, i shall recommend it as shadow rapporteur to my colleagues in my political group for approval. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. that's why we have a chance now.
the proposal for a directive, which will significantly simplify the placing of pharmaceutical products for human and veterinary use on the european market, is very good news for patients and also for the european pharmaceutical industry. technological progress allows for almost continuous improvement of already authorised medicines. however, any change must go through the approval procedure because it is a health safety issue. while the granting of authorisations at national level only is subject to the same regulatory requirements as the granting of authorisations under the european procedures, the regulatory requirements for the amendment of authorisations are not harmonised. this situation constitutes an unnecessary administrative burden and does not add any value. the new single market will require only one application. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal and congratulate the rapporteur on her report, which has clarified and improved the proposal. the proposed amendments will reduce the administrative burden associated with the process of placing such products on the market. pharmaceutical companies operating at transnational level will be able to cooperate better, resulting in faster access to the latest medicines for all, especially those who need them most. however, europe is facing a very dangerous phenomenon, namely the spread of counterfeit medicines. it's no longer just a problem of the african or asian continent. people in europe also often buy medicines online or from pharmacies. that is why it is so important to ensure a high standard for the marketing of medicines, one that allows each package to be traced back to its origin and verified that it is actually registered. e medicines will need to be bar-coded and packaged in such a way that even the layman can tell whether he is holding a safe medicine or a fake medicine by the way it is packaged, if he is buying the medicine from a pharmacy. i think that the member states have enough time, two years, to prepare for the implementation of this directive.
i welcome the revision of the 15-year-old timeshare directive. the definition of long-term recreational products is being broadened. this will allow for greater consumer protection and ensure the competitiveness of honest providers. the directive precludes the creation of new special-purpose products designed to circumvent the legislation. timeshare products are by their nature cross-border services. i am therefore pleased that this market will be fully harmonised in europe and that the consumer will have the same rights in all countries, for example a 14-day withdrawal period without having to pay a deposit in advance. or the obligation on the supplier to draw up the contract in the language preferred by the consumer. and that's good news for czech citizens who want to go on vacation. i also support the idea of a european registration system, like that of travel agencies, which would be a source of information in litigation and could also create a consumer guarantee fund in the event of a company's bankruptcy. i congratulate the commissioner and the reporters.
mr president, i should like to summarise the reasons why i voted against the resolution. first, strengthening the state’s role is the wrong answer in looking for a way out from the financial turmoil. second, higher regulation and the creation of a new pan-european supervisory authority without clarification of competences are not a remedy to the crisis. third, having been rejected by the people of ireland, the lisbon treaty cannot enter into force. that is why the european council should respect the outcome of the irish referendum. fourth, the european council is not willing to go back on its own unrealistic and extremely expensive targets concerning climate change. this will ultimately harm the living standards of ordinary people.
i am not too happy with the content of our joint resolution, nor am i too happy with the speech by mr sarkozy, president-in-office of the council. but i still think that agreement, or the ability to agree on some common outcome, is a very important achievement, because the worst message we can send to europeans is that we are unable to agree on anything. however, i would also like to draw attention to a little common sense. there are three phenomena. one is, of course, the financial crisis, the other is the recession, and the third is basically the impact of globalisation on our internal market. and that's what i've been saying for many, many months, even years. we are not able to stop the rate of increase in claims on european industry, and we are not able to negotiate a similar increase at the wto level. that's our big problem, this incompatibility.
i supported angelilli's report because i believe it will contribute to the fight against child abuse online. i would like to emphasise the improvement of the tools available to police departments. in particular, it is intended to create a european database on child pornography linked to the notification of crisis lines, which would be available to police services. this tool will be very useful in the case of image purchases via peer-to-peer file sharing, to verify whether the image has already appeared on the internet and whether an investigation has been conducted on the matter, if any, to avoid unnecessary duplication of investigations. it would also be an effective measure to place traces of payments made on child pornography sites, while fully respecting the standards of protection of privacy and banking secrecy. experience so far shows that the safety of children on the internet can only be ensured through a multi-level approach involving children, families, schools, all telecommunications operators, internet service providers and also public authorities. there is a need to increase awareness and prevention, which would technically support and facilitate the reporting of cases and improve the ability of police departments to investigate them, and i believe that the safer internet programme can contribute to this.
let me add to monday's discussion on protecting children when using the internet and other communication technologies. of course i supported the report and i welcome it very much. however, the programme we have approved does not emphasise the need to harmonise terminology with regard to dangerous content, and member states also differ as to what is only illegal and what is already criminal. this, of course, makes it difficult to combat crime on the internet, which knows no borders of state or continent. harmonization in this area should be our priority in the interests of children. whether we like it or not.
i have to respond to today's discussion, where i, of course, said that i very much welcome this report. but there was a requirement that all drugs with the same active ingredient also have the same brand name, so that patients would not be confused and overdose. to the layman, this may seem logical, but drugs are constantly being developed, and even drugs with the same or similar active ingredient differ in a number of other components. to accuse the commission of not having introduced the unification of company names is absurd and shows a lack of understanding of how the system works, regardless of the european union's competence in general.
i am pleased that across the political spectrum there is agreement on harmonising legislation to protect all europeans who are going on holiday abroad and want to hire without the risk of accommodation abroad. the revision of the timeshare directive eliminates the registration of unreliable service providers, which will increase the hope that they will not fall victim to fraud, as is unfortunately often the case today. consumers will also have a 14-day period, the possibility of withdrawing from the contract without having to pay a deposit in advance, and will even receive the contract in a language they understand. and that's good news for the czech people.
i could not vote for the andersson report. i do not like that those who were not satisfied with the judgment of the court of justice are now trying to use this report to challenge the judgment of the court in the laval case in sweden. the free movement of services is one of the benefits of the european union and member states need to do more to ensure that workers and entrepreneurs are better informed about the principles of the posting of workers directive that exists today. and this is the right way to tackle illegal employment and thus dumping in the european union labour market. and not by questioning jurisdiction. in a democratic society, the law needs to be enforced consistently, not questioned.
for the pse group. the stabilisation and association agreement is the first comprehensive international agreement between bosnia and herzegovina and the european union. the agreement should, as a consequence, facilitate and accelerate the transition of bosnia and herzegovina to a fully functioning state governed by the rule of law and to a fully functioning economy. the implementation of this agreement creates a necessary precondition for the future full integration of bosnia and herzegovina into the european union. however, the speed with which this agreement will be brought to life depends primarily on the collective will and willingness of the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina and their political representatives. the agreement is signed with bosnia and herzegovina as a whole, not with its individual entities. if bosnia and herzegovina is to become a member of the european union one day, it is in the interest of both entities, of all three groups, to come together to create a common functioning state. the joint efforts of the bosniaks, serbs and croats, and their main political parties, should therefore be directed towards strengthening the country's administrative capacity at all levels. the question of the next constitutional order is an important step along this path. the international community, including representatives of the european union, can offer a helping hand in this process. however, any constitutional arrangement must be the result of a voluntary agreement by the people of bosnia and herzegovina themselves. in my view, strengthening the economic performance of the country is also important in the association process. here too, cooperation between the two entities is needed to create a common internal market for the whole of bosnia and herzegovina. a situation in which a country is applying for membership of the european common market and at the same time has its own fragmented market is unthinkable. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the doris pack report and also call on the member states of the european union to ratify the agreement as soon as possible.
the famine was the result of a precisely planned and purposeful policy of j.v.stalin aimed at clear goals: voluntary surrender of land ownership, association in peasant collectives, withdrawal of all agricultural products and seed stocks for the needs of the russian army and purposeful starvation of ukrainian cities. the main goal was to suppress and destroy the ukrainian national being. it was genocide. it was about persecuting the civilian population in the background for political and racial reasons. the very essence of a crime against humanity was thus fulfilled. it's not just about remembering the famine. it is a symbolic compensation for the victims, a full study, analysis and recognition and acceptance of the shared responsibility and the associated common european compensation. communism is a crime against humanity. its consequences are comparable to fascism and nazism. let us therefore establish the european institute of european conscience and celebrate 23 august as the day of the victims of all totality. let's see communism as a terrible part of the common european history. only by accepting responsibility for the past can we find our way to the future. situations like the situation in iraqi society today, but also in other places in the world, teach us that the deeper the wounds in the fabric of society, the more painful, the more costly and the more humanly difficult it is to heal. ukraine is still badly wounded. let's help her.
the functioning of the internal market of the european union also requires the proper functioning of airport services. both passengers and airlines have criticised the non-transparent and sometimes overvalued airport charges that unreasonably increase fares. we will finally respond to this by adopting this directive at second reading. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 20 june 2013 and that the agreement was signed on 1 july 2013. i am convinced that this will lead to a reduction in charges and an improvement in the competitive environment. i am pleased that the council has also recognised the opening up of incentives to help open up new routes to the most remote disadvantaged destinations and that it has managed to come to a common definition of a network of airports to be operated by the same managing authority. i congratulate the reporters on these results.
let me explain my vote on mr stockmann's report on air fares. on the one hand, i welcomed the obligation to indicate the common carrier price including airport charges on tickets and in offers, which will clarify passenger decision-making and promote competition, but above all i welcome the limit on unifying airport charges for major national and large airports, which will allow these smaller airports to offer lower prices and thus compete in a market which is now very confused. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 28 june 2013 and that the agreement with ryanair was signed on 27 june 2013.
commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i find the report by mrs edith bauer very useful. the gender pay gap is one of the most persistent forms of discrimination against women. as mrs bauer pointed out, there is a lack of well-developed statistics at workplaces, both at national and eu level. i myself have addressed this problem in some of the books and articles that i have published in recent years. unfortunately, lower wages for women for equal work with equal skills and productivity have deep roots in stereotypes of male and female responsibilities for the family. this is a traditional male responsibility and has been neglected by all employers, whether in the private or public sector. there is a pervasive notion that a man's salary not only feeds himself but also his family, whereas a woman's salary is just a kind of sticker on the family budget. it's hard to believe, but this optics is so rigid that we really can't rely on cultural enlightenment to achieve equality in the workplace, but unfortunately we have to find ways to legislate equality. i therefore strongly support the idea of extending article 29 of directive 2006/54 to include precise guidance on the application of the principle of equality.
commissioners and colleagues, the fact that women in the union have to work almost two months longer to earn as much as men is more than alarming. although europe is dying, we have no choice but to say that wage discrimination against women and families with children persists, even by 25%, even though women have already outstripped men in terms of education by a ratio of 60: 40. mrs bauer points out that in so-called male professions, women's work is often undervalued without objective reasons. if the reason is a lack of years of work that a woman devotes to caring for the family, serious thought is needed. family can't be a handicap. my colleague bauer is making waves, making compelling arguments for the opening of an anti-discrimination review. i also support the proposal that access to public contracts and projects financed by union funds be made conditional on the demonstration of an anti-discriminatory pay policy by the undertaking concerned. i believe this is the way to change gender stereotypes of employers, especially in the private sphere. thank you, reporter, for your highly professional report.
mr president, the free movement of people and goods is one of the great achievements of the european union, but it is not working well for goods where the level of excise duty varies between member states. the irreconcilable opinions of the commission, the committee, the european court of justice and the rapporteurs on quantitative policy have revealed that we cannot find a good solution as long as these tax differences exist. i regret that the commission has not carried out an impact study to assess the economic significance of the parallel market, the social significance of which we all see, which is restrictive to citizens. i hope that this debate will inspire the coordination of excise tax policies on alcohol and tobacco, also because of the health risks. after all, high-tax countries have not had any visible success in combating alcoholism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, as a member of the committee of the regions, i have had the chance to see firsthand the damage caused by the storm to the forest in the high tatras in slovakia, the fire in portugal and the floods in the czech republic. in my discussions with the citizens, i was fully aware that the very possibility of using european money to repair the damage and restore the tatra park is strongly perceived as one of the concrete manifestations of european solidarity. the solidarity fund is able to help individual countries in certain crises and thus significantly enhances the awareness of european solidarity. unfortunately, the administration of the fund itself is not very efficient, and the aid often comes with a delay of several months. for this reason, the european parliament has long sought to change the legislative framework so that the law better reflects the new needs of the use of these funds and allows for the provision of rapid and effective assistance in a shorter time. with global climate change, disasters such as floods, major droughts, hurricanes and fires are expected to become more frequent on our old continent. new threats, such as terrorist attacks or pandemics, are also on the rise. it is a fact that individual states are trying to cooperate on a bilateral basis and are organizing joint exercises and interventions of their rescue forces. they thus indirectly support some of the ideas that michel barnier mentioned in 2006 in the context of civil defence. unfortunately, to this day, this discussion has no continuation. ladies and gentlemen, rapid response, the effectiveness of the solidarity fund and international cooperation in prevention and in combating the consequences of disasters are particularly relevant issues ahead of the forthcoming european elections. i therefore fully support the issues raised and would like to appeal to the european commission and the council to resolve this situation swiftly.
mr. chairman, the scale of the financial crisis demonstrates that both banks and consumers have not made responsible decisions. i am a strong supporter of investing in financial education and i also approved the report, but i am against mass campaigns and general education. i would point out that we lack an analysis because the situation may be different in the member states. and i also know that education has to be narrowly targeted to a whole range of populations in order to be truly effective. i would like to draw attention to the exemplary practice in the czech republic. for 3 years now, the website www.bankovnipoplatky.com has been operated by one person. these sites have made a significant contribution to the financial literacy of czech citizens, who, however, communicate via the internet. it's an example of how this can be done cheaply and efficiently. what we lack is the education of the students in schools and the older generation, and we cannot do without public support.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted, as did other ods members from the czech republic, against the buska report on school fruit and vegetables. parents must be the primary caretakers of their children's nutrition. the european union has no competence in the fields of education or health. these matters are to be managed by the member states according to their own national preferences. there is no reasonable reason for the european union to pay for one piece of fruit a week for schoolchildren with taxpayers' money. the eu should address genuine pan-european issues, such as breaking down barriers to the four fundamental freedoms, and should not violate its own subsidiarity principle.
mr president, let me explain why i voted against the report by ms pervenche berès and mr werner langen. there are at least three points i would like to stress. the very first one is that the report calls for a higher and deeper coordination of economic and financial national policies. the second is that it will entail a highly coordinated fiscal policy that will need political unification, and the consequence of the political unification is the third reason why i voted against. i do not share the view that political coordination that eliminates natural differences among member states will become the remedy and a healing answer to current european problems. the current european problems are the free movement of labour and the free movement of capital and services.
ladies and gentlemen, i'm glad that the absurd idea of european council president sarkozy to change the foundations of capitalism at the washington talks didn't pass. i hope that the european union will return to a rational spirit which respects free markets as a fundamental value and a condition for prosperity. and that's true even in times of crisis. i therefore believe that neither the european commission nor the czech republic, which will take over the presidency, will succumb to the illusion of their own greatness and infallibility and, unlike the french president, will give up their senseless and above all dangerous efforts to reverse the natural economic cycle with taxpayers' money. i am also glad that the g20 has rejected protectionism. after all, it is well known that those who trade a little freedom for more security end up losing both. ladies and gentlemen, the current crisis is not caused by capitalism, but by the greed of banks without the responsibility and willingness to take risks for their own decisions. and that's as much a threat to free markets as state-directed behavior. therefore, simply pumping money into banks without directly affecting how they use it is just stealing the results of the work of citizens. it is necessary to see that banks use the money not just to repair their own balance sheets but to lend to the business sector. allowing managers to accept financial aid without government dictating how the money is managed is a denial of the principle of political accountability. this would be an immoral compensation for losses from the uncharacteristic operations of financial institutions, without these institutions and the specific managers bearing fatal responsibility for their actions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against the capoulas santos report on the european fund for rural development. we only launched this program two years ago, and it only really started last year. the applicants started to work on their projects and learn the rules of the fund. now, only after one year, we change the rules. such a move cannot be supported, as it will only lead to losses and delay the financing of projects that the countryside needs. changing the rules so often can't do any good, which is why i voted against it.
the mobility of third-country nationals within the territory of the member states of the european union is a major challenge for europe in a globalised world where competition is fierce. we adopt common european rules to manage migration flows into europe and to curb illegal migration. the commission's proposal to speed up the recruitment process and to provide more favourable conditions of residence for workers, which will make the european union more attractive to highly qualified workers from third countries, should be welcomed. the decisive factor is not only the rapid recruitment process without administrative barriers, but also the common and uniform conditions of access to a total of 27 different labour markets. it is worth mentioning, when discussing the two reports, that barriers to the employment of people from the new member states still exist in the european union.
the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. in fact, madam president, we are voting here to incorporate the wine regulation into the regulation on the common organisation of agriculture in the form of tea. legislation wine, despite its essential specificity, is to be sprayed in this way on sheep, cereals, goats, fruit and vegetables. the union of czech wine-growers has pointed out that a small producer from south moravia, producing perhaps 2,000 litres of wine, will find it difficult to find scattered issues concerning its wine in the vast legislative mess. i was asked for help not only by our own winegrowers' association, which represents 20,000 winegrowers, but i also received letters from the wine associations of spain, france, italy and germany, which are all members of arev. only the commission arrogantly played deaf. dg agri claimed that they knew nothing about it and that the winegrowers were satisfied. and while commissioner boel admitted that the winemakers were not satisfied, she said there was nothing that could be done. but we can do it. we're parliament. either we create a comprehensive chapter on sot with wine, and if not, we reject the report. let us not allow the arrogance of officials to annoy the lives of the winegrowers, those whose taxes also contribute to the salaries of officials.
author. − madam president, it is difficult to stand up now after that particularly lively debate and switch to another topic! i would like to stress that the good and consistent enforcement of environmental legislation is essential for its credibility, for a level playing field and for ensuring that the environmental objectives will be met. the issue of environmental inspections is, therefore, very important for the work of my committee, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. on 14 november the commission published the communication on environmental inspections in the member states. this communication reviewed recommendation 2001/331/ec of the european commission, providing minimum criteria for environmental inspections. the communication contains some worrying messages. it states that the information submitted by the member states on the implementation of the recommendation is incomplete or difficult to compare. it states that there are still large differences in the way environmental inspections are being carried out in the eu. it states that the scope of the recommendation is inadequate and that it does not include many important activities such as natura 2000 and the control of illegal waste shipping. it states that inspection plans have not been implemented and where they do exist that they are often not publicly available. my committee noted with concern the conclusions from the commission stating that the full implementation of the environmental legislation in the community cannot be ensured. this would not only lead to continuing damage to the environment, but also to the distortion of competition within and between the member states. my committee therefore formulated four questions to the commission, which can be summarised as follows. first, why does the commission only wish to amend the recommendation – why does it not propose a directive on environmental inspections? second, why has the commission opted instead for attaching environmental inspection requirements to existing directives individually, a process that will take a lot of time? third, why is the commission not prepared to use a directive to define terms such as ‘inspection’ and ‘audit’, which are interpreted in different ways by member states? fourth, why is the commission not prepared to transform impel into an effective eu environmental inspection force? i would like to thank the commission in advance for its reply and i would like to conclude by emphasising that, in my opinion, the implementation and enforcement of environmental legislation should get the same political attention as the adoption of the legislation in the commission, in the council and in parliament.
the european parliament has been a party to the peace process, and it is not the european union that is responsible for the peace process. this is a fundamental ambiguity of resolution 242 and it is older than i am because this resolution does not specify the boundaries of the jurisdiction of east jerusalem. is this a civil dispute? it's not coming. is this the fourth geneva convention? it's not coming. we are light-headedly anticipating the negotiations of a future peace conference without any authorization. the head of the palestinian delegation was dragged away to visit a family who had been rightly condemned, which provoked an extreme provocation by the israeli authorities, which is the basis of a resolution that is unfortunately not the subject of this report. the aim is to create the conditions for a fundamental political change in the european parliament's position on israel's participation in community programmes and for a political improvement in relations, which unfortunately we cannot do in a democratic way. instead of a democratic solution, it's the path of our mps who gave the israelis a reason to intervene. we're not solving problems, we're adding fuel to the fire. that is not a dignified role for our parliament.
ladies and gentlemen, i hope that next week the heads of government of the union countries will reject the unified fight against the economic crisis proposed by the commission. centrally spending €200 billion from taxpayers' pockets on green investment and innovation is not the cure for 27 different economies. nor is it a cure to raise or lower taxes centrally and to control the size of budget deficits and government guarantees. i believe that the member states must cooperate, but the concrete steps should be dictated by the situation, not by brussels. ladies and gentlemen, the council should also reject pressure to complete the ratification of the treaty of lisbon by the member states. she should acknowledge that the treaty is irish and not dead. i warn you that the lisbon treaty could turn today's europe into a place of fighting, betrayal and atrocities. it gives the great powers a legal reins on lesser lands, and that only breeds violence, war, and poverty. the lisbon treaty thus threatens the existence of the european union as a project of freedom, prosperity and peace.
as the shadow rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs, i would like to thank both the commission and the rapporteur for their efforts to tackle in a positive way one of the minority issues that affect the european union. i am afraid that the discussion shows that commissioner spidla's words were either badly translated or misunderstood in the minds of either ms mohács or mr cohn-bendit. the czech republic, from which i come, and which has often been criticised in this context, and i am convinced that it is not right, has a great deal of experience with this issue. based on that, i'd like to make four points. i agree with the commission that this problem can only be solved by involving the regional, national and european structures to the fullest extent possible. secondly, i agree that we currently have enough instruments to implement integration policy. thirdly, i would like to express my fundamental agreement with the view of the commission and some of my colleagues that the key to a successful solution also depends on the friendliness of the representatives of the roma minorities themselves.
president of the council. - mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, madam rapporteur, mrs de keyser, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i should like to begin by thanking mrs de keyser for the quality of her report. i also noted, as she did, that a majority had recently emerged in parliament in favour of postponing the vote for the reasons mrs de keyser has given. from the council's point of view, israel's participation in the community programme is in line with the prospect of improving the union's bilateral relations with israel, to which the council gave a signal on 16 june last at the 8th association council with israel, an improvement which is part of the european policy of a strengthened neighbourhood. the council is convinced that this increase serves both sides and not only the interests of the country which we are associating more closely with the european family. it serves europe in that it will enable it to forge closer, more trusting links with new segments of the israeli population, whether they be its students, its researchers, its companies or its technicians. europe will thus be able to demonstrate the benefits of multilateral cooperation in terms of peace and prosperity. i say to mrs de keyser that such teaching has its price in an area such as the middle east. europe will thus be able to use the language of truth which confidence allows in a stronger and more credible way. i have of course heard the expectations expressed in the committee on this point, as mrs de keyser has said in the committee on foreign affairs. i am thinking, of course, of the message she has given on the total and immediate freezing of settlement activity, on the necessary progress in the peace process with the palestinian authority, on the lifting of restrictions on the people of gaza and the west bank, on the essential improvement of the lot of the people of gaza who are victims of the blockade, where the european parliament's mission was until recently. you can be sure, ladies and gentlemen, that these expectations are also those of the council, and i have no doubt of the commission. the declaration of 16 june 2008 contains very precise indications on this point, both as regards the political context in which the increase should be placed and the messages that europe intends to convey to israel on this occasion. of course, these messages have been known to israel for years, as you know. i am one of those who regret that they are not heard enough, but the bet made by the council last june is to use the enhancement of the bilateral relationship to send these messages more forcefully, at a higher level, to a wider variety of interlocutors. that is the council's policy. you will also have noticed that europe's invitation to join certain community programmes is addressed not only to israel but to all the countries in the european neighbourhood, including those in this region. mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, today the european parliament has the opportunity to make its contribution to the process of regional consultation and cooperation which europe is embarking on in a region which is critical for its own security and prosperity. i hope that in due course, in the light of the vote that has just taken place, you will follow the recommendation put forward by your rapporteur and that in the resolution you wish to adopt on the same occasion on the positions expressed on this subject in the margins of the association council, you will support the positions which the presidency believes reflect a wise, long-matured balance between the governments of the member states and serve the cause of peace and stability in this region.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the european council has been a very important meeting. in december 2006, the commission proposed to fully integrate the european neighbourhood policy partners in the implementation of certain policies and in a number of community programmes. the focus of our reflections was on research and development, innovation, competitiveness, consumer protection and the information society, to name a few. the council has taken up this proposal on several occasions. in march 2007, it supported the commission's proposal to allow all partner countries to participate in certain community programmes. israel is the first of our neighbourhood partners to formally conclude this year a protocol to a framework agreement with the european community on the general principles of its participation in community programmes. the commission welcomes this result, as it underlines our longstanding close cooperation with our partner israel. israel has been fully associated with the framework programme for research and development since 1995. the close cooperation has led to a large number of joint projects over the years, with substantial results, as i was able to see for myself last year in israel. the high quality of israeli researchers and universities makes israel a very interesting and valued partner. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european economic community and the european atomic energy community with the european union. the dialogue between eu and israeli companies, initiated by prime minister olmert and myself, is now well under way and is producing results. in addition, israel is already participating in the innovation and entrepreneurship programme, one of the three pillars of our competitiveness and integration programme. this is a programme which is particularly important for small and mediumsized enterprises. both sides have high hopes and expectations for closer cooperation. the eu and israel have agreed to cooperate in the fight against terrorism, and the eu and israel have agreed to cooperate in the fight against terrorism. there is no doubt that our relations are capable of expansion. anything that helps to facilitate people's encounters, to bring together journalists, artists, researchers and entrepreneurs, anything that serves dialogue and promotes mutual understanding deserves our unreserved support. this will have a positive impact on our existing dialogue on human rights. the european union has a strategic interest in further deepening our relations with israel, a key country in the european neighbourhood policy. the council decision discussed here today is part of this context and thus makes an important contribution to the deepening of our cooperation with israel. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the motion for a resolution and thus to support the commission's proposal.
for the ppe-de group. mr president, mr commissioner, mr council, what happened today i consider an unprecedented use of parliamentary procedures. our political group, the epp-ed, was prepared to give its full support to the socialist report, including the socialist amendments. it was the socialists themselves who refused to vote on their own report. however, the report has been referred to the committee on foreign affairs, it is on the table and it is essential that this parliament must vote on it during its term of office. our group will be fully committed to this, to its discussion and vote. what happened today is hurting europe. europe wanted to get value for its donor money, to gain influence in the middle east, to gain the opportunity to contribute to a peaceful solution. today we have got rid of the instrument that would have allowed us to have this position for our money. in addition, europe has lost a lot of support for development and research, it has lost support for the development of science, research, technology, the fight against terrorism and the improvement of human rights in the mediterranean. i think that the negotiations on the action plan as proposed by the commission and the council will continue. i also believe that under my own country's presidency there will be an upgrade in relations between europe and israel. only our parliament has lost its influence because it has become a place where dark non-european forces who do not want the situation in the middle east to improve have won. and i think that to set the european parliament against our own states and our own intentions is absurd. that's why we're going to continue.
in writing as regards the report on the rapid response instrument to food price inflation in developing countries (a6-0396/2008), i am naturally in favour of its adoption, as aid to developing countries is necessary in this respect. but at the same time i would like to point out that among the causes of the crisis mentioned in the report, there are, in my view, more important causes than the increased consumption of meat in china and india or the drought in australia. i would remind you that food prices are also rising in the european union and it is clear that the rise in energy prices is directly linked to the increase in profits of the multinational energy companies. neoliberalism, which has become the idol of all european union policies, will not solve the problem of food security anywhere in the world.
ladies and gentlemen, the climate and energy package we are discussing here today is a compromise. a compromise between the interests of industry, the needs of the environment and, of course, very important in the context of the current economic crisis, the needs of employment and job protection in europe. the climate and energy package is also a compromise between the industrialised countries in the european union and also the countries in europe where the share of industry is not as high. like any good compromise, this one involves reasonable concessions on all sides. i am convinced that such a compromise, which would be acceptable to all member states, old and new, small and large, industrially more or less developed, in the west, east, north, south and central europe, is possible. the agreement on the draft regulation on co2 emissions from cars or on the directive on the use of energy from renewable sources is, after all, indicative of this. ladies and gentlemen, the european union is a model for the rest of the world in many aspects of life. this is also the case for energy and climate policy. it is in our vital interest to adopt the climate and energy package as soon as possible and to play a leading role next year in copenhagen alongside the new us administration.
commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to mention the visit of a delegation from the european parliament to prague castle on 5 december. i would like to attribute the misunderstanding that took place to the nervousness and impatience that seemed to be on both sides of the table, not to the ill will that is no longer justified in europe today. but let me express one concern. the czech public was informed about the proceedings at the castle through the media and various political actors, who purposefully attached their comments. some attacked the president of the republic because it suited them, others for a change to the european union, because points are earned by the public anyway. so i would like to appeal to form and also to a greater sensitivity to self. central and eastern europe still has many unhealed wounds that can be exploited. this could have an unpleasant effect on the european elections in six months' time.
ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, the european parliament has been visiting the countries holding the presidency. that's good, and i approve. what i don't like is the lack of tact in the performance of this delegation in prague at the castle. we all know that mr. cohn-bendit's main method of exposure is provocation and impudence. i regret that the president of our parliament has joined us in prague this time. you have disappointed me, and i am forced to correct my good opinion of you. you lack the humility and patience to listen to an opinion you don't share. i often disagree with the views of the president of the czech republic, but i do not express this opinion as bluntly as you have admitted to a member of your delegation. i expect an official apology, not the usual arrogant dismissal.
since the maastricht treaty, which many saw as a victory for neoliberal economic policies, we have seen a gradual and concentrated attack on the european social model. moving away from the keynesian corporatist socioeconomic model, which had seen social dialogue and strong state intervention as normal, we have arrived at the results we have today. the total collapse of neoliberal capitalism and the reaching out of the hands to the state, which was to be as thin as possible and its influence as small as possible. i do not see how anyone can insist on what the council has proposed in agreement with the commission. is this the next step towards socialist capitalism for the rich and a savage capitalism for the poor? going back to the 19th century isn't going to help anyone. it is therefore necessary to reject the draft directive categorically, unless the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, mr alejandro cercas, are adopted.
last september, i warned on youtube and elsewhere about the growing prevalence of dangerous toys, and i promised to take action here to make our marketplace safer by christmas. many journalists laughed, but others took up the subject, and then an avalanche of controls was unleashed that by christmas millions of dangerous toys were withdrawn from the market. and that's before christmas. i appreciate that the european commission has responded quickly to our request and has put forward a new, stricter directive. i also have great appreciation for mrs. thyssen's efficient work. and of course the flexibility of the french presidency. this directive responds to new knowledge in the field of chemicals, but also to findings concerning mechanical damage to children, etc. it is therefore stricter on the manufacturer, but it also gives more leverage to the control authorities. i think it is very important that it also increases or rather transfers legal liability to the importer. the main problem is not with the european producers, but with imports. 80% of them are chinese toys. and i am convinced that next year, before the directive comes into force, importers will start to choose very carefully which chinese or other factories to import toys from to europe. and that they would only choose manufacturers that met european standards. i wish it could work on other products. i met again this morning with the toy manufacturers in the czech republic and i have to tell you that they very much welcome this directive, they welcome the harmonization of standards. they do, however, want us to increase the legal liability of accredited examination bodies. they are faced with paying for inspections, yet inspections sooner or later reveal certain deficiencies. and for those small producers, it's a huge financial cost that's completely unnecessary. i also want to draw your attention to the circumvention of the directive, both the current one and probably the new one that we're going to pass this week. we're saying that it won't be possible to say that this is not a toy for products that look like toys, but unfortunately toys will be made under the name of "decoration". this directive is therefore a first step and we have a lot of work to do.
in writing. one of the principal reasons why a large number of citizens of the european union oppose the so-called lisbon treaty is the entrenchment and the associated strengthening of the militarization of the eu instead of the union being shaped as a purely peaceful project. the european left is the main force opposing the militarisation of the eu. the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council simplifying the conditions for the transfer of defence-related products within the community (a6-0410/2008) is one of the most characteristic examples of the militarisation of the eu. under the guise of the glossy and misleading terms 'defence equipment' or 'european defence industry', there is to be a radical simplification and strengthening of arms trade and arms production within the european union, presented as an economic benefit for small and medium-sized enterprises. such an argument is unacceptable in such a serious and sensitive issue. the militarisation of the eu, including its arms industry, is a path the eu should not take.
it is clear that not only passenger cars but also heavy goods vehicles must be equipped with modern systems that guarantee a reduction of both carbon monoxide and nitrogen oxide emissions by 80%, and fine particulate matter by as much as 60%. since it takes about 10 years to refurbish these cars in europe, i am calling on the commission to propose legislation to enable older vehicles to be fitted with more modern emission control systems. otherwise, euro vi will not have much impact on improving air quality. i fully support the request that the commission should promote the development of international, not just european, harmonization of motor vehicle legislation, not just for freight vehicles. this is due to the air quality on this planet, but also, of course, to the competitiveness of europe. and for that reason i also point out the need or the necessity not to change the emission standard before five years have passed.
the proposal addresses the problem of revenue-generating projects, a problem which directly affects many applicants for european regional development fund and european social fund funding. the existing legislation represents a considerable administrative burden and also creates a situation of legal uncertainty by allowing project revenues to be taken into account for a full three years after the closure of the operational programme. if the income exceeds a certain threshold, there is a risk that the applicant will be and ultimately the state will have to return the funds. i am convinced that such strictness is not appropriate, especially for small projects and for projects financed by the european social fund. in particular, the latter group of projects does not involve revenues of a commercial nature but revenues from the budgets of municipalities and non-profit organisations, obtained in the form of administrative and other charges. as these revenues are subsequently used to pursue public interest objectives, their reimbursement to the eu budget cannot be considered a reasonable course of action. i believe that our task is to simplify the mechanism for drawing up the structural funds, while, of course, maintaining the necessary controls to ensure that the union's funds are handled transparently. i therefore welcome the exclusion of projects financed by the european social fund from the revenue monitoring mechanism and, for projects financed by the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund, the increase of the cost ceiling for exclusion from this mechanism from eur 200 000 to eur 1 million. this will undoubtedly lead to administrative simplification and increase efficiency in the implementation of these projects.
i would like to join other small business owners in expressing our appreciation for the unexpectedly quick, intelligent and helpful response of the european commission to the initiatives of the member states and our members of parliament in introducing this clause in regulation 1083. simplification of legislation and also retroactivity is above all good news for a large number of small businesses and their projects up to eur 1 million, which can however be a great added value for european competitiveness and especially employment. i also see this flexible approach of the european commission as the first sign of good news or the harbinger of further good news in the de-bureaucratization of complex processes in monitoring small projects.
on behalf of the chair of the european parliament's delegation for relations with israel, let me thank the french presidency for its extraordinary performance in promoting relations between israel and the european union. one of the consequences of the iraq war was that israel realized that it was no longer the exclusive ally of the united states in the middle east. that's why he decided to diversify his security and tie himself more closely to europe. on 14 june this year, we were pleasantly surprised when the association council took account of the results of the reflection group and expressed its willingness to improve relations. it was up to the french presidency to decide how to proceed with the preparation of the new eu-israel action plan, but above all to reach a political consensus in the council. the council's conclusions on the mediterranean, morocco and israel are staggering. they express genuine political will for cooperation, meetings of foreign ministers, cooperation in the political and security committee (cops), possible participation of israel in esdp missions, ad hoc political consultations until after the summit. improving relations gives europe a greater influence on value for money, a more direct influence on the middle east peace process. mr president, i firmly believe that our parliament will also confirm its agreement in the near future to allow israel to participate in community programmes. the condition for improving the situation in gaza is surreal and shows a misunderstanding of europe's responsibility and role. i hope that we will soon be able to put things right and, by our dignified conduct, to support the consensus of the council and the work of the commission. i hope that the czech presidency will be able to achieve a european-israeli summit, the first summit between europe and israel since the second world war, on the basis of joint political work.
let me also wish the french presidency a very well-done job. the european union, led by france, has managed the georgian crisis together and effectively, and is dealing with the severe financial and economic crisis in a coordinated and solidary manner. a good and balanced compromise was reached on the energy and climate package and a solution was found with the irish government to the problem of ratification of the lisbon treaty in ireland. but the lisbon treaty has not yet been won. the country that will take over the union presidency in 14 days' time, the czech republic, has not yet ratified the treaty. its prime minister, topolánek, whom president sarkozy has described as a brave man, has not kept the promise he made, and made to president sarkozy, that prague would ratify the lisbon treaty by the end of this year. prague has not ratified and has huge problems with ratification. meps and senators of the civic democratic party, who are also members of the epp-ed, reject the treaty. this will be a major problem for the czech presidency. i would like to thank the french presidency once again.
the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources, which we are discussing, is part of the climate and energy package. and i'm voting against this package tomorrow. i am convinced that the legislation presented to us as a hard-won consensus by 20,000 heads of state is incomprehensible, unnecessary and, consequently, dangerous. and i hope it never gets filled to the brim. the creation of the entire climate package and the process of negotiating it is most reminiscent of hans christian andersen's fairy tale the emperor's new clothes. members of governments who end up approving a bunch of chaotic regulations, orders, sanctions and fines unanimously in brussels often make no secret of their opposing views in their own countries. in private conversations, they even calculate the negatives of climate madness and admit how this green bubble will damage their country's economy. but they are afraid to use their veto power to reject legislation that will bring the union nothing but a further decline in competitiveness. no politician has said responsibly how much the new directives and regulations will raise the price of heat and electricity. what will the new registers and the annual reports of guarantees of origin be for? why should a capricious wind-powered kilowatt-hour in a grid be preferred to a reliable nuclear-powered kilowatt-hour? who among you can calculate, for example, the standardisation rule for the accounting of electricity produced from hydropower, which this parliament intends to impose tomorrow on all hydropower plants in the union in the form of a complex formula? and who besides the newsman and a few officials even knows what i'm talking about right now? if we want to act in the interests of citizens and ensure sustainable development, we cannot force all industrial production out of the union, control wind and rain, block nuclear power and keep on charging energy prices with endless redundant administration. which is why we should reject the entire climate package tomorrow.
the detection and penalisation of foreign drivers who commit traffic offences within the european union is an unpopular proposal, but it is entirely logical and useful. it is incomprehensible that member states can agree to harmonise new safety features in the production of cars for the roads of the european union in order to reduce the consequences of road accidents, but at the same time they do not want to agree on prevention. the proposal for an electronic system for the exchange of information on traffic offences between member states should be taken for granted in an environment where the free movement of persons has been in effect for years. however, it would also be useful to harmonise the systems of traffic offences. i am aware that it will not be easy to have the same meter for southern italy and northern europe, and even some rules do not always lead to the same traffic offences or the same severity of those offences. but i think that the basic ones that are known to cause the chronic majority of traffic violations, european states should find a match. and i support the commission's proposal and the rapporteur's, of course.
i would like to thank you, madam president, for your work, your professionalism and your commitment in negotiating a compromise on this proposal for a directive which will undoubtedly contribute to the stabilisation of the financial market. i congratulate the honourable member on reaching agreement at first reading. but i also want to thank her today for all her work in the european parliament, not just for her two dozen reports, some of which are those which promote behaviour in the banking world, such as the code just mentioned. but piia kauppi also distinguished herself professionally in the handling of many other reports. i greatly appreciated her stance in our joint fight against software patentability in a situation where the european union does not have a european patent. and we'll miss him when we're hopefully debating the patent one day. thank you for your cooperation.
draft report of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - i would like to take this opportunity, after almost a year of work, to thank all those involved. i'd like to thank the reporters and the shadow reporters in particular. i'm not going to repeat what reporter avril doyle said. a truly exceptional situation requires exceptional action and the french presidency has shown a truly exceptional commitment to reaching a compromise. i believe that the fact that the climate package is not liked by the more ambitious and the less ambitious gives us proof that the compromise was indeed reached.
the climate package is a realistic compromise, which is also in line with my vision of sustainably managing the planet's resources and promoting the competitiveness of european industry and employment. it's another step forward, not backward, not revolutionary, but still exemplary for the rest of the world. it is a message that today's europe, despite the economic crisis that is unfolding, continues to take responsibility for the state of the earth we leave to future generations. i agree that we need to move from poorly designed agrofuels to a policy of sustainable use of energy from biogas and biomass and that we need to encourage innovation in conversion technologies to be as efficient as possible, i.e. of the highest quality. the biomass source should be mainly waste water, organic fractions from households and industry, residues from agriculture, fisheries and forestry. degraded soil should be used as well as new non-food non-feed raw materials such as algae.
let me explain why i supported the legislative proposal in the climate package, i.e. the doyle, davies, hassi and corbey reports. these proposals were the subject of very long discussions, negotiations between the council, represented by the french presidency, and the european parliament, represented by rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs from most of the political groups, with the original proposal, for example, for the chemical industry, both czech and european, being completely liquidating. last weekend, a consensus was reached. this was achieved through concessions from member states and meps. clear criteria were set for each industry sector and a gradual introduction of each measure. a compromise was reached which preserves the original ambitious environmental objectives, while setting conditions which are neither restrictive nor hostile to industry.
i support the phasing out of free greenhouse gas emission allowances for a wide range of industries. i regret that the board refused to transfer the proceeds of their sale to insulation. i appreciate that the french presidency was able to reach an agreement between the old and the new member states and to back down in the reference year, or until 2007. i was happy to support a compromise that would allow the kyoto protocol objectives to be achieved and take account of the economic situation. please note that i am requesting a correction to the vote on the final legislative resolution, i was in favor, but the check was wrongly red.
i supported the co2 regulation for cars, as it is the result of a complex trilogue. improvements in engine technology, as well as the use of greener tyres, lights and eco-design, will gradually reduce emissions from 160g co2 per kilometre today to 130g co2 per kilometre by 2015. the regulation will allow small car manufacturers to make small deviations from the targets set. at the same time, parliament rightly insists on the strict application of fines for non-compliance with the commonly agreed rules. i'm joining my colleague kamal. it is a pity that the member states are continually refusing to cancel the unnecessary and therefore unenvironmentally harmful travel of the european parliament from brussels to strasbourg 12 times a year.
i did not support today the proposal to adjust working hours, as proposed by the council and our committee. it is essential that the directive is discussed again calmly with the council. on the one hand, we must allow flexibility in working time arrangements, especially for employees of small and mediumsized enterprises, and also protect sunday as a day of rest. on the other hand, it is necessary to adapt the regime for the provision of emergency services to take account of the different nature of the services. while opt-out is a solution, which unfortunately has been rejected by colleagues, suitable for emergency services doormen, firefighters and other professions, specific and different solutions will need to be found for doctors with regard to patient safety. another way is to exclude healthcare from the scope of this directive, because healthcare organisation is not a wise policy of the european union.
for the group gue/ngl i too would like to begin by thanking and congratulating the rapporteurs, mr mann and mr andersson, for their work, and in particular for the patience they have shown in negotiating the compromises. mr andersson's proposal, in my view, correctly expresses the need to respect the subsidiarity condition, while on the other hand the wording describes well the mechanisms and the time limits within which the system for evaluating benchmarks should operate in the member states. in my view, it also encourages greater activity by all those involved in providing vocational training, including by promoting self-assessment as a complementary means of improving quality. i welcome the fact that the compromise proposals have managed to include what i consider to be very substantial proposals that were adopted in the employment committee, namely a greater degree of incentive for member states to act effectively in this area or to emphasise the role of learners in assessing satisfaction with the learning outcomes, as well as the support for the staff that the learning provides. i think it is important to support point 1 in mr manna's report, which stresses the vital importance of personal and professional development of individuals. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the proposed compromises use the term 'lifelong learning' and thus correctly widen the circle of citizens involved in the learning process, and i will therefore support them.
let me say briefly that vocational education and training in the european union is carried out at national and regional level autonomously, according to different standards, and thus creates a wide range of different fields and qualifications. europe therefore needs common criteria to ensure transparency and transferability between the many educational streams in europe. education and training systems must therefore be sufficiently flexible to respond effectively, in particular to the needs of the labour market. the effectiveness and efficiency of the training offered in meeting these needs needs needs to be regularly evaluated, monitored, improved on the basis of facts. it is positive that the principles for assessing the quality of vocational education and training include recommendations for the introduction of a european qualifications framework. i personally see the european reference framework as a means to provide an impetus for improving the quality of vocational education and training systems in the individual member states.
the positive aspect of the 2009 budget, which has just been adopted, is that it clearly identifies priorities such as support for small and medium-sized enterprises, climate protection and food crisis support for the poorest countries. unfortunately, we have little scope to use it more to tackle the economic crisis, not only because it is a mere 1% of the member states' budgets, but also because of the little flexibility in the rules provided by the 2007-13 framework budget. i appreciate the efforts of members who have been involved in negotiating with the commission at least this adjustment in the light of global problems. unfortunately, the council was not receptive to the approval of more flexibility. after the lisbon treaty, we will have more powers as the european parliament.
i am very pleased that we have succeeded in passing the toy safety directive at first reading and that we have rejected the absurd proposal by the greens and some socialists to require that all toys be tested by independent institutions. they put forward a blockade proposal even though the experience of the us and china has shown that, despite the tests, the toys are flawed on the european market. our ambition is to make manufacturers and importers fully responsible for safety. it's up to the products to make sure that the products meet the standards. where such standards do not already exist, article 18 of the directive imposes tests. the cost of external testing in the czech republic is on average around eur 3000. such a proposal would liquidate small businesses in the union, knowing that in china, toy testing will not guarantee safety anyway. the responsibility must remain with importers and manufacturers, not with uncontrollable laboratories around the world. congratulations to the parents on our gift.
(the president's opening speech was not heard) the deposit insurance which was very flexibly proposed by the european parliament and which i voted for is clear. we want to harmonise the minimum level of protection for small savers by insuring deposits up to eur 50 000 and we want to establish short deadlines for the repayment of deposits so that clients receive clear, timely and truthful information on the status of their deposits with the bank even during the crisis. this is a necessary measure because clients are chaotically transferring their deposits from healthy banks to those that have been bailed out by the state. this proposal is the only way to restore confidence to small savers and stabilise the banking market. i would like to see guarantees extended to smes, because they play an indispensable social role in european society and are always the most vulnerable in times of crisis.
in writing. − if you have mr president, i voted in favour of the report by mrs novak on 'education and training 2010'. i agree with the need to promote efficiency and effectiveness in individual education systems. an effective way to provide all children, including those from disadvantaged backgrounds, with the opportunity to learn throughout their lives is to improve the quality of early childhood education. subsequent primary and secondary education must encourage pupils and students to think creatively, to develop their personal talents and skills which they could apply in obtaining employment. in the field of vocational training, it is necessary to increase the quality and attractiveness of the courses offered and, above all, to link this training to the economy so that the training process corresponds to the labour market not only throughout the eu but also in the region. in the field of higher education, i support the need to modernise the curriculum to meet current and future socioeconomic needs. adult education programmes should focus in particular on supporting those who are least favoured on the labour market and on supporting employers who offer lifelong learning to their employees.
