i declare resumed the session adjourned on tuesday 18 december 2007.
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it's the first time we've all come together in the new year of 2008. i wish you all personal health and well-being and success in the tasks we have to carry out together to lead the european union into a good future. let me make a few comments on our work. on the last day of the european parliament's session here in strasbourg, 13 december 2007, the treaty on reform was signed in lisbon. in a short speech alongside the president of the european council, josé socrates, and the president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso , i expressed the will of the vast majority of the european parliament that the reform treaty should become a legal and therefore political reality by 1 january 2009. for 2008, this objective remains the priority of the priorities. on 21 december, border controls were lifted for nine of the countries that joined the european union on 1 may 2004. it was a moving experience. for centuries, soldiers have forcibly crossed the borders of other countries on our continent, bringing war, misery and suffering to the people. the elimination of the battle-trees between our countries means that we are welcome among our neighbours. we are citizens of the european union together and, as the berlin declaration of 25 march 2007 says, 'we are united in our happiness'. (applause from the centre) malta and cyprus joined the european monetary union on 1 january. this makes our common currency, the euro, the official currency in both countries. we warmly welcome malta and cyprus. (applause from the centre) the european year of cultural dialogue was proclaimed in ljubljana on 9 january in a spectacular event by the council, the commission and parliament. the dialogue between cultures will be a focus of our work this year and in the future. i would like to ask all of you to attend the speech tomorrow by the grand mufti of syria, sheikh ahmad badr al-din hassoun. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. our legislative work this year will be largely shaped by the requirements of climate and environmental protection. as legislators, we have a great responsibility to protect the climate and the environment on the one hand and to safeguard european competitiveness, including our jobs, on the other. we must succeed together in finding a responsible balance between economics and ecology. the european union is founded on values, rights and obligations. on 12 december 2007, the charter of fundamental rights was signed here in this plenary by the presidents of the european council, the commission and the parliament. it was a significant event for the citizens of the european union and also for the european parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. there is no excuse for this behavior. (applause from the centre) freedom of speech is the foundation of democracy and parliamentarism. any member of the european parliament may express his opinion freely and peacefully in all the debates provided for in this connection. it is our common duty to defend this right at all times. however, to prevent speakers from speaking in the european parliament, especially when they are guests, is contrary to the fundamental principles of freedom, democracy and parliamentarism. (applause from the centre) it is against our rules of procedure. this is unacceptable. i shall therefore call on those members who, despite repeated calls from the chairmen to put an end to the disturbance, have continued to do so to take the measures provided for in the rules of procedure. (applause from the centre) the same applies to members who have treated our parliamentarians who have done their duty in an unacceptable manner. (applause from the centre) the new year presents us with very great challenges. with respect and consideration for each other, we will meet these challenges well. i'm sure you will. with that in mind, i wish you all a very happy 2008. (applause from the centre)
the minutes of the meeting of tuesday, 18 december 2007, were circulated. is there any objection?
thank you, mrs. field. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. mr cohn-bendit doubts that, and we shall look into it. it was a decision by a very large majority, and we also said that the list should not be exhaustive and that we would also ask the european parliament's committees in particular to propose further activities, which we could then adopt. so, madam president, you can be sure that the basis for discussion here was as broad as possible and that we are also open to further proposals, which will have to be decided by the conference of presidents or the plenary.
so i would point out again that your group clearly did not agree. we shall review this in the minutes, not to cast doubt on your statement, but to ensure that the minutes are correct. it was a majority decision, as is rarely the case in the conference of presidents.
i am not going to go into that. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would ask that we treat our guests with respect and dignity when they come to us, because we want to encourage dialogue, not hinder it. that's my real request to all of us. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 10 january 2008, pursuant to rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday: no changes. the european parliament has also called for the european union to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism.
the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe has asked for the debate on the council and commission statements on the situation in pakistan following the assassination of benazir bhutto to be closed by tabling motions for resolutions.
does anyone wish to speak in addition to the reasoning for the motion?
in view of the limited speaking time for the wednesday afternoon partsession, the socialist group has asked for the debates to be extended until 6 p.m. in agreement with the council, question time may be extended until 7.30 p.m.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
we will monitor all this very carefully.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are very shocked by the russian government's closure of all the regional offices of the british council. these regional offices were the victims of the deteriorating relations between russia and britain. is it only provocations that civil society in russia can expect? the murder of alexander litvinenko is still unsolved, russia refuses to cooperate. the main suspect, andrei lugovoy, has been in the duma since late 2007. the circumstances that led to anna politkovskaya's death are also unclear. is criticism stifled under a cloak of silence or eliminated outright? the eu must call on russia to respect human rights and the rule of law. we can make a difference by naming our press room after anna politkovskaya!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my concern is directly linked to what mrs ţicău said earlier: 2008, the year of intercultural dialogue. i agree with this and respect that the conference of presidents has taken certain decisions, but i regret to see that the religious representatives speaking here, apart from the pope, are all from outside europe. we have not had enough representatives of european religions to speak here? that is why i think it makes sense - and you have just mentioned it - that romania is a large orthodox country, and that alongside the pope there are also protestant representatives, because there is also an intercultural dialogue among christians, but also orthodox representatives speaking here. i would therefore ask you to consider allowing the ecumenical patriarch bartholomew to speak in this year of intercultural dialogue.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. the report we are discussing here is really just a report on a report, namely the commission's report on the car of the future. but since 19 december we have had a proposal from the european commission on the future co2 assessment of cars. so, of course, the public is also watching how the european parliament reacts to this proposal and how consistent the decisions of the european parliament are with other decisions that have been taken recently. we have recently discussed and agreed the report by my colleague, chris davies, and that is why we should also be consistent. i shall deal with these aspects a little later, because the cars 21 report also covers many aspects which have nothing to do with co2. it is very important to deal with the subject of the automobile here. why would you do that? because we have been talking about the lisbon agenda for years, because we have been talking about the competitiveness of europeans for years. now we have a field where we are competitive. in the premium sector, for example, we europeans have a leading position on the world market. over 80% of all premium cars in the world come from europe. this is a cornerstone of the european economy and also a cornerstone of european competitiveness. cars 21 stands for competitive automotive regulatory system for the 21st century. it is a system that is designed to ensure that the automotive industry is able to compete in the marketplace. this is a commission communication which has been developing proposals for modernising eu car legislation since 2005 in the framework of a high-level expert group. it was about what adjustments we need to make around the car to keep the automotive sector competitive in the future. i cannot answer all your suggestions. we in the european parliament, in the committee on industry, research and energy, have listed 89 suggestions. i shall not go into them, but they cover aspects such as road safety, environmental protection, the internal market, world trade, research and innovation and many other subjects. let me highlight a few aspects. we need the completion of the internal market for tuning and spare parts, for example. it is unfair that german car tuning manufacturers, for example, are not allowed to sell their products, such as rims, in italy because there is a tuning ban there, while italian manufacturers can export to all countries, including germany. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must also make the admission policy more european. there are striking differences in admission. another aspect: we need a simpler system for the registration of used vehicles purchased in other eu countries. the national states have sometimes erected high barriers and a lot of bureaucracy, which make it very difficult to trade in and buy used cars privately. europe needs a common rule on this. it is also an important tool for renewing the fleets. we are making climate change policy in many other areas, we need it here too, so we need an adaptation here too. another aspect is research funding. we need more research money from the member states for the automobile industry. new legal requirements, such as co2 legislation, require the automotive industry to take adaptation measures. to strengthen europe's position, the member states, but also the european union, must significantly increase their investment in automotive research, not only in alternative powertrains, but also in storage technology. we are five to ten years behind our asian competitors in the research of battery technology. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. it is about penalties rather than bans, it is about the central parameter weight, but it is also about realistically estimating when this co2 legislation can start. we have decided in parliament to vote for the year 2015. we also decided to use 125 grams as a base. if i may say this as a comment to the commission, the penalty you propose in your proposal is fifteen times that for co2 coming from the chimney. so the co2 that comes out of the exhaust is 15 times more expensive than what comes out of the chimney. that is why we need a realistic assessment. it's very ambitious. i would like to thank the colleagues who helped to draw up this report.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on international trade. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i wrote the report for the inta committee. we have focused on three main aspects. firstly, we urge the commission to pay more attention to all recommendations, including their impact on the multilateral round - the so-called doha round - and on bilateral agreements. we have been particularly interested in bilateral agreements, as in the case of korea. but other countries, like india or the asean countries, are also interesting. the important thing is that we want market access to be opened only if we can also have a corresponding guarantee from the other side. this applies in particular to the so-called non-tariff barriers to trade. secondly, we want to see more coordination in the field of international harmonization and international standards. thirdly, we urge that, in addition to internal conditions of competition, international conditions of competition, which have changed considerably in recent years, should also be taken into account. we see that we are dealing with a significantly larger number of international competitors.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the convening of the high-level expert group cars 21 was exactly the right thing to do. the result of the work can also be seen. we had two members of parliament - malcolm harbour and garrelt duin - in this group and they did a very good job. as the shadow rapporteur for this report in the committee on the environment, i would like to deal only with environmental issues. but as a member of the committee on industry, i am also firmly convinced that maintaining and increasing the competitiveness of the european automotive industry is closely linked to the question of how climate- and environmentally friendly the vehicles made in europe will be in the future. i therefore welcome the fact that we have quickly launched the euro 5 and euro 6 standards for passenger cars and that the commission proposal for a euro 6 standard for lorries is now available. with this source-based legislation, we are helping cities and municipalities across europe to meet the required fine dust emission levels and thus improve air quality. but it is puzzling to me that when it comes to climate protection, there are repeated attempts to postpone the introduction of co2 legislation to 2015 from the target date of 2012. this is not good. we had the climate conference in bali, and europe was very active there. but when it comes to concrete legislation, we always take a step back. since 1995, car manufacturers have known that there is a need for research and development in the area of climate-friendly vehicle models. i think that 12 years of starting time must be sufficient to achieve the target of 120 g/km in 2012, and this includes complementary measures. this is very important. climate change is certainly not going to wait for us, but we have to act now. and it's important that we peak our carbon emissions by 2015 and then start reducing. every sector, including the automotive sector, must play its part.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the automotive industry is a key industry in europe. it employs 12 million people, it's about innovation and growth and it's a product that enables individual mobility. the european car industry must therefore be our objective to remain at the forefront of the world and competitive. but we must also always remember that in today's globalized world economy, the degree of incentive to innovate and the degree of punishment for doing business is very small, and we end up exporting the best products in the world, not just moving production sites. i just want to focus on the co2 aspect, which is certainly one of the most important aspects we are discussing here. the lifestyle criticism that mr verheugen has spoken of has long been an intolerable part of the european climate change debate. it's in criticizing individual lifestyles. claude turmes just said that. only if we take two-ton limousines off the market, which is what he would love to do, the co2 reductions would be hard to measure, but the economic damage would be huge. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. mr verheugen has just made it clear that he was not interested in introducing a regulation on lifestyle criticism. but if i look at the fines now on the table for minimum deviations from the limit values, i think that is exactly what the commission has done. we are discussing and passing a regulation which is hostile to innovation, because the money which the car manufacturers have to pay is needed for innovation and research.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues for the really fair and open debate. this was a high-level debate on climate change, innovation and - we have seen this everywhere, especially among our colleagues in the gue - job preservation. these are three things we have to agree on. i would also like to thank claude turmes for some clarifications or suggestions. but one thing was unfair, and that was the remarks made by mrs liotard, and i want to make that very clear. this is not about going after some lobbyist. the point here is to fight passionately for a policy which represents us europeans as the leading market. i'm with the commissioner, i'm with you, claude. but i'm suggesting to you, mrs. liotard, that you've been unfair here. it's not right that you emphasize lobbying. i would like to quote the great german sociologist max weber. he said that a politician must have passion - and i'm trying to show you that - but he must also have a sense of responsibility and he must have a sense of proportion. and that balance sometimes seems to be missing when we're hysterical about climate change. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to achieve the objectives of the common agricultural policy. i'll now point to my colleague chris davies, who i'm a little bit proud of. there is no one in the alde group who is greener and more ecological than chris davies. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that is what this is all about, and we should not be fooling people in europe, but we should be doing things that are feasible. i am glad that the environment committee has adopted his report by a large majority. i thank the members of the committee on industry, research and energy for voting in favour of this report by a very large majority, and i hope that many of our colleagues in this house will vote in favour of this report tomorrow.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. there is one thing we can all agree on: the current situation in the eu, with 27 different tax systems coexisting in a single internal market with full freedom of capital movements, has fatal consequences. but that is where the unity ends. tax competition is tax dumping for the rich and powerful and increasing tax burden on the shoulders of ordinary earners and consumers. it is not surprising that this situation is extremely well liked by the wealthy and the corporations. it is surprising and shocking that this reality is also repeatedly mentioned in this house, which should not only be articulating the interests of the top ten thousand. despite the nuances and nuanced assessments, the kauppi report is another example of such embellishment. this concerns the position on the alleged positive effects of tax competition as well as the treatment of the actual subject matter, crossborder loss compensation. it is an open secret that crossborder loss-making is a popular way for companies to minimise tax by shifting profits to low-tax areas and countries. with considerable success, as the statistics show. because, not least, this virtuous shifting of losses has contributed to the steady decline in the share of corporate profits in taxes over the last 20 years. the judgments of the ecj have further facilitated this taxation and thus have massively interfered with the tax sovereignty of the member states. the dumping of corporate taxes was thus further fuelled. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want a different europe and we want a socially just tax policy. that is why our group will reject this report.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. of course it is better if the commissioner is present, because you have a few critical points you want to ask him yourself. then i'll have to do it later. for over 15 years we have been trying, or rather the commission, to regulate the framework for negotiating airport charges in an eu directive. two attempts have so far failed because of major conflicts of interest between airports and airlines and between member states. the conflict of interests is again very great, and i cannot recall any of the 189 amendments tabled in committee which were supported by all the parties concerned. many airlines want the greatest possible cost transparency from the other side, from airports, a regulatory authority that ultimately sets prices, and the application of the 'single till' model. many airports prefer not to change the status quo. the specificities of the member states also make negotiations difficult. the uk, for example, has a strict regulator, the caa, but at the same time most airports want to be deregulated, and the trend is going in that direction. in sweden, portugal, greece, finland and spain, many airports are organised in networks with uniform charges, which means cross-subsidisation and often little transparency. in spain, the level of airport charges is even set by parliament, so it is up to members of parliament to decide. in germany, supervision has so far been carried out by the länder rather than by a national authority. and in the new member states, airport charges are particularly needed for infrastructure development. i will expand on these differences of interest so that we can understand how complicated the negotiations are. that is why what we have done so far has been primarily concerned with balancing interests, because we in the committee believe that we need such a system and that it should therefore be pursued. what is the outcome of the balancing of interests so far? we have reduced the scope to airports with five million passenger movements per year or 15% of the national passenger volume, because the risk of abuse of power is low or non-existent at the so-called regional airports up to five million. secondly, we have established the freedom of choice of the business model for airports, and thirdly, we have also included airport networks as a whole in the scope. fourthly, we have specified the tasks of the regulatory authority and allowed possible delegation to regional structures. the commission has also taken the initiative of introducing a new system of charges for the use of the infrastructure, which is now being introduced in the member states. we want differentiation of charges according to objective criteria, according to different services and according to environmental criteria, and we want a definition of negotiated service levels. the compromise reached was adopted by the transport committee with only one vote against. this is a success in the circumstances and i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their close and constructive cooperation. the commission has also proposed that the principle of transparency, non-discrimination and the obligation to consult and provide information be uniformly applied in the setting of airport charges in europe. this will reduce distortions of competition in the future and make it more difficult to abuse market power. i believe that the directive is thus a major contribution to the stabilisation of the system partnership between airports and airlines and at the same time a strengthening of the european aviation hub. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the use of the internal market for the carriage of goods by road.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i wanted to ask the commissioner a few questions, even though catch the eye is not intended for the rapporteur afterwards, because he did not hear my contribution earlier. just for a second, next time.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would just like to ask the commissioner about the points where we in the committee are clearly different from the commission's proposal. firstly, the reduction of the scope to five million; secondly, the inclusion of airport networks - this is a completely new item -; thirdly, the specification of the tasks of the regulatory authority and also the possibility of delegating tasks to regional structures; fourthly, pre-financing - the commission has not been involved in this, although it is possible according to icao - and finally, the question: what is your position on differentiation of charges according to environmental criteria? these are the questions we'd like to have answered.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, thank you very much for your comments and suggestions. we will have to go a long way together and negotiate vigorously when we have the council's common position. in the last few weeks it has become clear that the council is indeed moving towards us on many points, such as the scope of application, airport networks and the rejection of opt-outs by nation states. but there are also new issues that we have not discussed at all, such as national ceilings on fees. so we have to continue to discuss this internally. firstly, it will be important that we vote as closely as possible tomorrow so that we also have a strong negotiating mandate vis-à-vis the council's position. i would like to thank you very much, commissioner, for the detailed comments you have made. perhaps just one sentence on why the parliament is so concerned about the infrastructure pre-financing. firstly, because it is possible according to the icao, secondly, because we naturally do not want to have any leaps in the charging systems when the new infrastructure comes on the market, and of course also because there is a great need to catch up, not only in eastern europe but also in other new member states. but i know that's controversial, we'll see how we go about it. i am very grateful to you and look forward to further discussions with you and with the other members. thank you again to all the shadow reporters for your great cooperation. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the commission in particular, and of course the council. we have a good report here. we in the committee on industry have attached particular importance to the need to have a sensible system in which the import and export of dangerous chemicals are regulated in a reasonable and legally sound international manner, in such a way that the importing countries understand what we want in the european union. that was the main problem, that we had nice things on it, we had dangerous things on it, but nobody understood what it was really about, which we had added to the international list. we have a good system here with the proposal, which hopefully can now be understood internationally so that it can be applied. of course, what is not understood does not make much sense. it can be dangerous, but if it is not understood, it still does not work. we are pleased on behalf of the committee on industry and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr blokland, very specifically for having negotiated so tenaciously and so sensibly that we have reached a good compromise. i would ask that we not try to add to the list immediately, but that we test what we have so that we can have a legal system that actually works.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank mr blokland. i am glad that the european parliament has taken the lead and closed the biggest loophole. we know that in the so-called third world countries there are more than 1.5 million cases of poisoning and almost 30 000 deaths every year. it would have been devastating if the commission's proposal that dangerous chemicals could be exported without the consent of the importing countries had been accepted if there had been no response within 90 days. it would also be a very questionable understanding of environmental and health protection that we would be exporting if, on the one hand, we were setting milestones for greater safety with the new pesticide authorization currently under way, but on the other hand, we were doing the exact opposite when exporting. the eu must ensure a high level of protection not only at its own doorstep but also in the rest of the world, and this absurd relaxation of export rules would have discredited the eu. but we also need more transparency on the export of chemicals and pesticides. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the transparency of the data on the export of goods. the trade in materials, some of which are prohibited, is at stake, and we need maximum transparency in the eu member states. we therefore need more information on the quantities and the member states from which the materials come.
member of the commission. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the commission gives a high political priority to health and safety at work and shares your views on a large number of your recommendations. i would like to stress that this must be a community strategy and not just a commission strategy. this is indeed the only way to achieve the primary and ambitious objective of a continuous and sustainable reduction in occupational accidents and diseases. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the commission's target in its strategy to achieve a 25% reduction in accidents at work in the european union over the period 2007-2012 does indeed require the active participation and commitment not only of public administrations but also of the social partners' workplace-level prevention agents. it is very important to underline the commitment made by the member states in the council resolution of 25 june 2007. to develop and implement strategies for public health and safety at work, based on national conditions, in cooperation with the social partners. to set national, measurable targets for reducing occupational accidents and diseases, particularly in sectors of activity where rates are above average. the commission is particularly grateful for the european parliament's response to its communication and for its support for the broad priorities and lines of action set out in it. i noted parliament's concerns about the need for proper planning and allocation of resources, and the assessment and reporting of progress, with regard to the objectives of the strategy. the commission will provide details and the precise design of the specific measures to be taken at community level in the social agenda scoreboard. in addition, we will ensure the involvement of the advisory committee on health and safety at work in a tripartite exchange of information on the content of the national strategies, objectives, actions undertaken and monitoring of progress. the results of this procedure will be kept in good time for parliament to be informed. as regards your request for a revision of council directive 91/383, i would like to inform the honourable members that the commission services are currently analysing the situation in several member states on the basis of a study prepared by an external consultant. a report will be drawn up during 2008 and the commission will decide on its further action in this area, taking into account the conclusions of this report. as regards the request for revision of council directive 92/85, i would also like to inform you that the commission services, after consulting the european social partners on possible amendments to that directive, are currently carrying out an impact assessment in order to determine the consequences of certain amendments to that directive. if, after completion of the impact assessment, the commission decides to submit a proposal, it is likely that this proposal will be adopted by the commission within 2008. i share your view that the implementation of community legislation on health and safety, particularly in relation to small and mediumsized enterprises, needs to be improved over the next period, with a combination of measures which will simultaneously encourage employer responsibility and worker participation. as regards occupational health, i expect the new strategy to be a further step towards creating a healthier working environment across the european union, where the needs of an ageing workforce are met and the most vulnerable groups are fully protected. the commission will intensify its efforts to establish appropriate health indicators and other statistical measures to ensure that occupational health risks are properly monitored. we are confident that the priorities set out in the community strategy 2007-2012 and those set out in the report you are adopting today will pave the way for safer and healthier workplaces in the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. thank you very much to mrs willmott for her fair and good cooperation. the report reflects the high importance of health and safety at work in the eu-27. the essential elements of protection are emphasized and weighted. the cost of safety and accident prevention is high, but let me be clear: health is not affordable! it is important that the provisions are implemented and applied in all the member states, that the european union provides assistance and advice on implementation, not that it imposes penalties. i believe that special attention should be paid to small and mediumsized enterprises, which need support in order to be able to compete. we call on the commission to create the right conditions for small and mediumsized enterprises where they do not yet exist and to improve them where they do exist. the protection of workers must not depend on the country in which they work or the size of their establishment. in the short time available i shall just mention a few points of particular importance, such as the improvement in protection against hepatitis and aids and the further, complex but planned elimination of asbestos from the world of work. the focus here is on hepatitis b, and in particular on persons whose occupation is associated with an increased risk of infection by hepatitis viruses, i.e. in the field of medicine, nursing and first aid. in many member states, first aid also involves volunteers in the emergency services, rescue services and fire brigades, who are involved in a second, unpaid profession. overall, the report's rigor, its adherence to the theme and its avoidance of examples that would have led to prejudice in many areas were very important to me. thank you for your cooperation. the epp-ed group agrees with the report.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. taking out a loan is different from buying a commodity. the legal complexity is much greater, the growing national financing cultures and legal traditions play a much greater role, and thus the trust of citizens in this environment is often crucial. in this context, approximation of legislation in this area is limited and should only be undertaken cautiously and gradually. the consumer, as the weaker party to the contract, must certainly be legally protected, but the principles of freedom of contract and the individual responsibility of the adult citizen must also be the standard in this context, and not the rule of the leader and the patron. national legislators must be given room to manoeuvre, particularly in order to ensure that they are flexible in ensuring the protection of consumers on the ground and to respond quickly to new problematic developments in consumer protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. impact assessments would have been indispensable, especially in the interests of consumers, where hundreds of millions of people are affected. legislation should be based on typical situations and not on exceptions. in these circumstances, the european parliament as a whole is to be thanked for rejecting the commission's first proposal, which was totally unacceptable, and for making substantial and decisive changes to it at first reading. secondly, i would like to expressly welcome the new approach adopted by the commission in the amended proposal from 2005, which is to harmonise only certain basic elements in the final stage. i have to criticize the council's common position. instead of looking for a workable european solution, the representatives of the states introduced, defended and compromised their own special arrangements. the result is an over-bureaucratization of regulations. the consumer has no benefit from it! a flood of information didn't help him. there are considerable additional costs, particularly for small loans. the aim of my work was therefore from the outset to try to streamline and to open up more room for manoeuvre for the national legislator. i would also like to thank my colleagues on this point, because all the votes in the committee on the internal market have gone in the same direction and probably all the decisions as they stand are going in that direction. i would like to mention only two main points, namely the substantial improvements and cuts in overdraft facilities and the emerging article 16 scheme, i.e. compensation for early repayment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not think that the commission has any right to interfere in the work of the council. i would like to mention two points which are still important to me and i would like to ask for your support here again. firstly, the minimum threshold for the application of the directive should be raised to eur 500. i know, of course, that the values differ in europe. but the point is not that the directive should apply from 500 euros onwards, but that the national legislator should retain the possibility of applying from the first euro onwards, rather than necessarily from 500 euros onwards. secondly, the consumer should have the possibility to dispense with the explanations provided for in the pre-contractual information, also from the point of view of the effect on the internal market. i think it would be sufficient if the consumer were given a contract text in advance, and that would be sufficient to provide the pre-contractual information, as the commission had in fact proposed in its own proposal. that would limit the flood of paper. i am afraid that otherwise the good idea of this directive, which is to open up the internal market to consumers in europe, to give them more variety of products, more choice, will not be achieved.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. unfortunately, we have to adopt a directive tomorrow which does not meet our own demand for better regulation. there is no impact assessment, although this is a very new proposal, despite the enlargement of the eu to 12 new member states, despite the great differences in the financial culture, in the regulatory environment, in the social differences within the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the member states are now able to react very differently, much more quickly, to the different models that are constantly and daily appearing on the market. member states are also better equipped to respond to the financial crisis. the periods in which they can regulate are shorter than those of the european union. it would therefore have been sensible to limit ourselves to minimum harmonization rather than trying to achieve maximum harmonization. that is the point we are criticising in this consumer directive. we also criticise the fact that a number of derogations have been created for the sake of the member states, which had to be simplified to get the member states on board. unfortunately, it has not improved the rigour of the text at all. there is, however, one exception which we would also like to see, and that is the question of renovation loans. in view of the major challenges of climate change, it would be urgent to exclude from this proposal mortgage-backed renovation loans, which have nothing to do with consumer credit but are to be valued more like mortgage loans.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and, of course, the commissioner, who has played a very constructive role in this difficult matter. mrs wallis has mentioned earlier that this dossier has been 'spinning' in the european parliament and in the european institutions for over seven years, as i like to say. and those seven years were not, in my view, seven years of transparency in legislation, they were not seven years of better regulation, but they were a mess that even today few of my colleagues are able to see. i do not think that we are doing a great favour to the european consumer or to the european citizen who has had to watch this backstage tug of war between the member states. but if what comes out of that is that the consumer, who wants to buy a car, for example, gets more transparency in their decision to take out a installment loan, a personal loan, then i think that's useful. it was mentioned here: it is a market of 800 million euros, the variance of the loan interest is about 6%. there is a lot of music in there, of course, and it is to be hoped that the consumer can also benefit from this flexibility. i have my doubts about that. because if the consumer buys a digital camera for 220 euros and then has to fill out a ten-page credit form in writing, he will hardly be able to overlook the risks involved in a credit above 220 euros. so i think that the result will be that much of what is well-intentioned in this dossier will not help the normal, protectable consumer in the end, but will put him in trouble, so that he is even more likely to avoid a installment loan because he is afraid to fill out this extensive form. i remain in this position and hope that the variance in interest rates will become more transparent to the consumer and that this will create an advantage, even though the procedure was unacceptable in my view.
the commission has already done so. i think we need to come to a conclusion here so that consumers and banks know what will and will not apply to them in the future. i think that the compromise we reached last week, which the liberals also agreed to, is a reasonable compromise in which we have found a viable, consumer-friendly, common solution. that's the important thing! mr. schwab, if you'll excuse me, first of all, it's not ten pages. secondly, i think it is very good that we have a common form which clearly and transparently states to consumers the total amount of credit, the duration of the credit, the right of withdrawal and the annual interest rate, which is then calculated on a common basis in all the member states. that is transparency, and that is the transparency we need, and which will be put to the vote tomorrow with the proposal in amendment no 46. i hope very much that we will succeed in actually implementing this transparency. i think, with your permission, that the rapporteur has done a lot of work, and that is true, but my group cannot accept that we as a parliament are being manipulated into a situation where it suddenly looks as if the council is more consumer-friendly than the european parliament. for my group, this is a situation which is simply unacceptable, and that is why we must ensure that there is a good balance between the right of banks to do business - which is a normal thing in a market economy - and the protection of consumers, so that they also have the information they need to make a rational decision about which credit to take and which not to take. that is the right way, and that is what we should adopt tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i welcome the commission's well-intentioned attempt to establish a functioning internal market with stronger consumer rights, including for consumer credit. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in the event of a dispute between the commission and the member states. in this respect, the outcome of the consumer credit directive is largely unsatisfactory. firstly, the standard information required is too extensive, amounting to some eight pages. i doubt the client is actually using it for in-depth information. in fact, it is a tangible increase in bureaucracy, which at the end of the day is paid for by the consumer. secondly, in early repayment of a loan, the opportunity has been missed to allow the consumer to participate in an extraordinary return that the lender has when the interest rate situation has changed in its favour since the loan was granted. thirdly, the compromise reached practically means the end of the overdraft facility, which is common and widely used in germany. the citizens will be very sorry and will once again be cursing the bureaucratic moloch brussels. less would have been more!
member of the commission. − mr president, i would also like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur, mr lechner, and to all honourable members for raising a lot of important and wise remarks. let me just comment on a few of them. we believe that the threshold is set up very carefully. our common aim is not to deprive vulnerable consumers of protection by directive. that is why we set up a threshold which equally embedded the interests of the new countries and which does not exclude most average credits in the eu-12. it is also, we believe, a big advantage to have a standard info-sheet, which many of you have pointed out as one of the main positive steps in the directive. this will be one of the biggest advantages and we will not deprive the consumers if we substitute it for the contract copy, because consumers cannot easily compare copies of the contract. they often have difficulties understanding the contract copies – and this is borne out by eurobarometer research. as to full harmonisation – actually i would like to stress that this is ‘targeted’ full harmonisation. the reason why it is better than minimum harmonisation, as some of you proposed to discuss even today, is that we think that it is necessary to lower market-entry barriers for financial services providers, and this is one of the main reasons why this proposal for a directive is going ahead. through this, we need to increase consumer confidence. that is why targeted full harmonisation is the best way to do it. the commission would like to reassure mr harbour especially that it will monitor the market. my services have launched a study to collect indicators and data on the present market. a few years later we will use the same indicators and collect the same data. this will allow us to decide on the follow-up. to conclude, i can only repeat that in my view, going through the conciliation procedure would not help us reach a better compromise than the one you have on the table today. consequently, i very much hope that parliament will be able to adopt this text at second reading tomorrow.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it has become clear in the debate that we all have a common goal. i can fully agree with what the commissioner said at the beginning. the question is whether the objectives of the text now on the table will be achieved. i think there are legitimate differences of opinion. the single effective interest rate is certainly a step forward, as is the common uniform right of withdrawal. but let me emphasize again: the consumer protection is a matter of taking a global view - the commissioner was right to say that - and not of adding up all the rules that exist somewhere in europe. more legislation does not mean more consumer protection. on the subject of interest rate differentials in europe, i would have thought it would be a good idea to have an inquiry into the extent to which these interest rate differentials may be due to differences in legislation in the countries concerned and to complexities, and whether interest rates may be lower where there are simpler legal arrangements. i don't know, but it would have been right. competition and general consumer information are also designed to protect consumers, and over-complicated information is not. a brief comment on the trilogue: i have always been of the opinion that we should discuss our differences here in parliament. i don't want a deal to fail. however, i am not in favour of this, after we have always called for transparency - especially in the council of ministers and elsewhere - behind closed doors in an informal body, but rather that each parliament first expresses its opinion, that motions are put forward and that a result is then reached. i want to repeat once again: the text has been considerably improved over the course of six years of discussions. i want to emphasize this explicitly. and parliament has a crucial role to play in this. i'm kind of seeing this as a success of my own work. but i don't think the text is good enough. it will come into force, however. i do not wish to thank my colleagues, the commission or the council, which has always provided very open and detailed information, for the work which has been generally very pleasant and enjoyable.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. it is a particular honour and pleasure to welcome his eminence sheikh ahmad badr al-din hassoun, the grand mufti of syria, to the european parliament today, in the context of the european year of intercultural dialogue. (applause from the centre) as i emphasized last week in ljubljana at the opening ceremony of the european year of intercultural dialogue, this european year of intercultural dialogue is of great importance to the european parliament. i am deeply convinced - and many others are with me - that a peaceful coexistence of cultures and religions both within the european union and with the peoples of all regions of the world, especially beyond the mediterranean, in the middle east, is both possible and necessary! the result of such an undertaking will shape our common future in the long term. we must build together a spiritual and cultural bridge across the mediterranean based on mutual enrichment and shared values. we build this bridge through a constant, honest and open dialogue, in which we listen to each other, share our opinions openly and develop mutual understanding. the core of intercultural dialogue is tolerance. tolerance is not arbitrariness. tolerance means to hold one's own viewpoint and to listen to and respect the beliefs of others. where it is not possible to accept the other's point of view, it is nevertheless necessary to treat opinions with respect and to exchange views peacefully and, wherever possible, to facilitate joint action and thereby reduce tensions. we must emphasize our common features, the essence of universal democratic values. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the european parliament will have several opportunities to hold such discussions during 2008 and beyond. the visit of the grand mufti of syria today is the first opportunity to do so. ahmad badr al-din hassoun, the former mufti of aleppo, is considered a prominent advocate of interfaith dialogue in a country where religious communities in their diversity still live and work together peacefully today. the fact that the grand mufti is accompanied on his visit today by high-ranking religious leaders is a clear indication of this. this was his express wish. your eminence, please. i am very pleased to ask you to speak before the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
grand mufti of syria. − (the speaker spoke in arabic. below is a transcription of the english interpretation.) greetings to you all in the name of our creator, who created mankind from the same soil and through whose soul we have been able to become alive. the source of energy that comes to us is from the one god, the creator; we are his creation and, hence, i greet you as brothers on this planet, my brothers in spirit and in mankind. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members, i have come to you from a country which i had not chosen to be in, but heaven chose that i be one of its citizens. this land, which we call the ‘blessed land’, the land of al-sham, which includes lebanon, palestine, syria, jordan and israel, this land which has encompassed all the cultures of heaven: in our land, the prophet abraham walked, and the prophet moses lived happily there, and in our land jesus (may god’s blessings be upon him) was born, and from our land he was lifted to the heavens. muhammad, the prophet, came also from mecca to our land to be lifted into the heavens. therefore, i would like you to understand the meaning of that land, which was a source of light and enlightenment without which we would not have been christians and followers of abraham and moses, and we would not have been muslims and we would not carry the responsibility of conveying the divine message to the world. therefore, i thank you wholeheartedly and i thank the president of parliament, who allowed me to open this cultural debate in a year which is the year of dialogue between cultures. i say cultures, but really there are no separate cultures, there is but one single culture. cultures have had an impact and enriched the culture of mankind, and culture is from our own creation: we created culture. this parliament was not built by a christian or by a jew or by a muslim, but it was created by man. this is a symbol of culture, of its construction. we all form one single culture, which is called the culture of mankind. therefore we, in our region, do not believe in a conflict between cultures at all. it is a single culture in the universe, and it is not multiple. however, different cultures can exist or co-exist. (applause) so, let us look at where there is conflict between cultures. conflict exists where there is ignorance, terrorism and backwardness, but a cultured person, whatever his religion may be, will hold my hand so that we can build the culture of mankind together. when man reached the moon, the soviet agency at the time and nasa were not all americans or russians, they were also europeans, italians, germans, french, belgians and arabs. they, together, built the civilisation that allowed mankind to reach space. so let us have a look once again at the terminology or the term ‘conflict’ between cultures or civilisations. this is dangerous because civilisation cannot be built separately. those who built the pyramids are our great-grandfathers, and those who built the pyramids in chile are also among our great-grandfathers and therefore, as i said, civilisation is one. a second point. does civilisation have a religion? or is it a human culture in which religion gives its moral values? there is no islamic civilisation, or christian civilisation, or jewish civilisation. religion gives civilisation its moral values, but culture is something that we built. god created religion, but we create cultures. this is what we have built, but religion is the work of god. do not, therefore, limit civilisation because it is the result of our work, whereas religion, as i said, is the work of god. who creates civilisation? mankind – you and i. who are we, you and i? are you different from me? no. you are not the other party. the animal might be the other party, but you are my brother or sister, whatever your religion or language, because my mother is your mother, my father is your father, and the land is our mother and abraham is our father. therefore, let us create a new generation that believes that ‘the other’ is the animal. but man, whatever his religion or wherever he comes from, is my brother or sister, and his blood is my blood. his spirit is mine and his ideas are mine and his freedom is my freedom, and his culture is different from my culture. so let us build civilisation together. we do not believe, in our region, in the multiplicity of religions: multiple religions do not exist. abraham, moses, jesus and muhammad came with one single religion – the worship of god and the dignity of mankind. as for legislation and law, these differ from time to time and from period to period. there can be many legislations, but there cannot be many religions. therefore, your god and our god are the same and single one and we all worship the same creator. hence there cannot be religious conflict. this brings me to say that there is no holy war. i do not believe in holy wars, because a war can never be holy: it is peace that is holy. (applause) so let us teach our children in schools, churches and in religious places and in the mosques that what is really sacred in the universe is man and not the kaaba or the masjid al-aqsa or the church of the trinity but mankind – mankind is the most holy and sacred thing in the universe, and this is more important than any other sacred thing. (applause) why do i say this to you, ladies and gentlemen? because the kaaba was created by abraham, a man, and the wall of mecca was built by a jew, and the church of the trinity was built by a christian. but man – who created man? this is the creation of the creator, and anybody who destroys the creation of the creator should not be respected. any person who kills an israeli or iraqi child will be called upon to respond to his action before god because those children are the creation of god on this planet and we destroyed that creation. can we bring life back to those persons? if the kaaba were to be destroyed, our children could build it again and if the masjid al-aqsa were to be destroyed, we could reconstruct it. if the church of trinity were to be destroyed, the next generation would build it but, believe me, if one man is killed, who can give him back his life? hence i greet and commend europe that invited me to come to this place. so i start with you and call upon you to ensure that the dialogue between civilisations has to be endless and open so that we create states based on a civil basis – not a religious or an ethnic basis because religion is a relation between you and god – but we must live together in this world peacefully. i do not impose my religion on you and you do not impose your religion on me. this is something between us and the creator. so, let us build a new generation that believes that the civilisation of mankind is a common work and that the most noble of all is mankind and freedom – after god, of course. if we would like to see peace in the world, let us start from the land of peace: palestine and israel. so we can tell people, as the pope said years ago, rather than building the wall, let us build the bridges of peace, because palestine is the land of peace. considering how much it costs to build that wall, we could actually allow christian, jewish and muslim children to attend the same school and to live as brothers and sisters in a school of peace. (applause)yes, we extended our hands to you in syria last year. president bashar-al-asad extended his hands to the world and said ‘i want a true peace’. i will not carry a weapon today but i will always carry the words of peace to stand before the world and say, no more war after today. the victor in war will be a loser if he is temporarily victorious because he killed people, but the real victors are those who become brothers to other people. it is not land that is holy but it is man that is holy. let us make a holy world once man becomes the holy person. therefore, please do not believe the media, because the media on many occasions do not tell the truth. many of you have visited me in syria and have come to my mosque, and i went with them to the churches and they saw how we live as one single family, and that we do not believe in simple cohabitation but in living as a family. whether we are muslims, jews or christians we believe in the one house – the house of life. i have lived, as you, as a member of parliament for 10 years in syria and i felt, the moment i entered into parliament, that i did not represent my political party or my group because i was independent; rather, i represented every person who has asked me to represent him or her and i represented every person who has not asked me to represent him or her, because he or she is my brother or sister, and i was a representative of everybody in the country. so, do you represent your countries or political parties or do you represent the human being? please be representatives for us and your people, because mankind is unique in the universe. yes, you have to represent us on the issues of peace and truthfulness and belief. the islamic world today witnesses war in many of its countries. this world must achieve peace, and it has always wanted peace and, if there are certain crises, that is because of injustice. christianity came to ensure peace, otherwise we cannot understand what was the mission of the prophets, such as moses, who called for the achievement of peace. nobody wanted to kill anybody, and anybody who wants to kill a person would be contradicting his beliefs and religion. do not use religion for killing; religion is for peace and life. yes, this is my message from my country, from a land that was blessed by the heavens and where all the prophets walked and lived in. woman is a great person in our land, and she is dignified, whether she is jewish, christian or muslim, although she probably faced injustice because of men. women participate at all levels of our country and the leaders of my country, including the president, call upon the participation of women in all fields of society. this city is a title for peace. i saw how it was built and i said that the miracle of the 20th century is europe. this miracle that witnessed the first world war and the second world war, and then managed to destroy the berlin wall without shedding any blood – not one single drop of blood. all europe came together, and its people came together in one parliament. so, could you help us achieve such a parliament – a human parliament, a spiritual one, a universal one? please help us, because syria and the whole islamic world are waiting for you, whether they are muslims or christians. finally, since damascus is the capital of arab culture this year and you started the year of intercultural dialogue, i would ask you to agree to holding a meeting for cultures in the capital of arab culture, damascus, to say that the world is at one and that we are extending our hands to lebanon, because lebanon has one people, and we should all help the creation of one lebanon and one true palestine, one true israel, one true iraq, a land of peace for everyone. (sustained applause)
i am not going to go into detail. your applause shows that i can express my sincere thanks on behalf of all of you to sheikh ahmad badr al-din hassoun, the grand mufti of syria, for his message against violence, against war, against terrorism. it puts human dignity at the centre, and that is the basis of cooperation between cultures, it is tolerance, which means that we have our own point of view, we don't have to accept the point of view of the other, but we respect it and so we live together in peace on this earth, with respect for human dignity. thank you very much, mr ahmad badr al-din hassoun, for your speech here in the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i refer to rule 171 of the rules of procedure and ask the following on behalf of the socialist group: i am not saying that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the rules of procedure and petitions. i would ask that all further debates, including explanations of vote, be postponed until 10 p.m. tonight. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we have approved the report in the libe committee. we shall agree with him here too, although we share many of the criticisms voiced in the plenary, including by the rapporteur himself. one point has already been raised by the rapporteur. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. in view of the debates we are having within europe, and also in view of the state of debate we are having in europe, it is regrettable that we have not been able to reach this compromise with the council and the commission. other points to be mentioned: we have tabled amendments in the libe committee, all of which have unfortunately been rejected. i'll just mention a few. discrimination against roma, for example, would have been an important issue, but so would the issue of privacy. data protection would have been an important point. we have reached a certain standard here in europe, which we must also uphold internally if we are to be credible. however, it is important to consider the question of the compatibility of the fight against terrorism with fundamental rights, also in the light of the experience gained in the fight against terrorism. this question would also have been worth including in the fundamental rights agency's work programme. they all agree: i want the fra working as quickly as possible. we haven't even been able to agree on a director. in this respect, there is some doubt as to whether the fundamental rights agency will be able to fulfil its mandate. the good news is that there will be very few of these procedures, and when the eu treaty comes into force in 2009, we will have other processes in the future, involving the european parliament in these debates.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not children are not small adults, nor are they so-called natural members of the family or of society, but are separate legal persons with their own rights. all eu member states have signed the groundbreaking un convention on the rights of the child, but in many areas we in europe are just getting started. it is a good thing that the european commission is putting children's rights on the agenda, but the commission's proposal is still too much poetry and too little concrete action for us. i am glad that the report - and once again my congratulations to the rapporteur - brings this commission recommendation to life. it is to be hoped that the commission will do its homework and become more concrete in the green paper 'children's rights 2008'. we need indicators for the implementation of children's rights and precise timetables. let me highlight three issues that are close to my heart, namely the rights of girls, especially girls with a migrant background. the realisation of children's rights is always also a question of equality, of gender justice between girls and boys, and this has been shown in this report. i would like to make one point: i am glad that the committee and the rapporteur have followed our proposal to ban the headscarf for girls in the eu member states, at least in primary school, so that girls have real freedom of choice and the right to childhood is safeguarded. there is also no justification for banning migrant girls from school. secondly, i am concerned about violence against children and the increasing number of cases of child neglect. the key here is to strengthen media literacy in children. the proliferation of pornography and violence on mobile phones has increased alarmingly, and this is leading to a deadening and a spiral of violence that is spinning faster and faster. i ask you, mr frattini, to look very carefully at how we can improve the protection of young people in the media and how we can better protect children from violence. thirdly, the ecological rights of the child - a subject which has not yet been raised - the right of every child to grow up in an intact environment. unfortunately, the commission has not taken into account in its strategy for children's rights that we should in future target the pollutant limits more on children, and not just on adults. this applies to noise and other substances. i would therefore ask you to include the environmental rights of children, because children are the citizens of tomorrow. we all have a responsibility to ensure that the european home is also a home for children!
member of the commission. − the price of food fluctuates because of the seasonal character of agricultural production. those fluctuations are not completely passed on to consumers because the cost of raw materials has, until recently, been decreasing and because of warehousing technologies catering for those seasonal shortages. recently, more systematic food price increases seem to be taking place, and the principal reason seems to be growing demand from emerging large economies, like china and india. we have already discussed the fact that in india last year there were five million more people with a new diet that is based much more on milk, milk products and meat. last summer the situation worsened owing to adverse climatic conditions in many producing regions, and this has been the main reason for the exceptionally high increase in food prices in the european union since september 2007. the commission and the national competition authorities are carefully monitoring the market. anti-competitive practices have been discovered in the dairy sector in the united kingdom and in greece, and fines have been imposed on firms involved in those anti-competitive practices. i feel that, if the latvian national authorities have been informed, then they will be working on the case you mention, especially as it is high on the public agenda. what we really need is a sectoral investigation to see whether there is any kind of cartel behind it, which has already happened in two eu countries.
member of the commission. − i would like to thank the honourable member for her interest in the single market review. alongside our communication on the single market for 21st century europe, we adopted a package of measures to improve the competitiveness and efficiency of retail financial services markets. integral to that package are initiatives to improve consumer confidence and empower them to seek out the best product for their individual needs. although the commission focus on empowering consumers is not recent, current financial turbulence certainly highlights the importance of this matter. i would like to address all three areas mentioned by the honourable member: education, inclusion and redress. financial education is best delivered as close as possible to the citizens that need it, namely at the level of national and regional authorities, non-governmental agencies and the financial services sector. at the end of 2007, we adopted a communication on financial education to raise awareness of the need to increase consumers’ level of financial literacy, promote the provision of high-quality financial education in the european union and provide some practical tools to help achieve these goals. it includes some principles to guide financial services providers and announces some practical initiatives. these range from publishing an on-line database of financial education provision and research in the eu, to an enhancement of the existing dolceta on-line educational tool to help teachers incorporate financial matters into the school curriculum. today, having a bank account is a prerequisite for being able to fully participate in social and economic life, and all eu citizens should have access to a basic bank account. we are currently carrying out a study to identify and analyse policy measures taken by member states to prevent financial exclusion. based on this information, which we hope to receive at the end of this month, we will reflect on how best to ensure that all eu citizens have access to a basic bank account. finally, when buying financial services, consumers need to know that in the event of a problem they can have easy access to redress. while out-of-court dispute settlement bodies exist in many eu countries, not all of these are members of the commission-run fin-net, the aim of which is to facilitate consumer access to redress in cross-border cases. with this in mind, we are working to ensure that all existing out-of-court dispute resolution bodies are part of fin-net. we are also reflecting more generally on how to encourage the creation of alternative redress systems where these do not already exist. those initiatives will not create confidence and empower consumers overnight, but they are a complement to the initiatives we are taking in other related areas, such as information and advice.
i respect mr mccreevy's scheduling problems, but other people have schedules, too. i simply want to know whether or not my question to mrs kuneva is still on the agenda, whether i can go to the group meeting now or whether i should wait here.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. "it's never too late to learn" and "you never learn". the two titles of the commission's communication and action plan on adult education are well known phrases, but if you read them carefully, they are in fact an admission of past failures in european education policy. nevertheless, we are pleased that the commission's communication and action plan comes at a time of growing recognition of the need for lifelong learning and a time when new demographic challenges need to be addressed. economic and social change in the eu requires greater adaptation of qualifications and skills in working life. the challenges of the labour market must be met, i.e. the employability of the individual must be one of the main objectives of adult education. education, and in particular adult education, is also a factor for personal development, self-respect, active citizenship, social inclusion and intercultural dialogue. several studies have shown that the non-economic benefits of learning have important and positive effects, for example, on one's own health, on greater participation in social life by all age groups, and of course also on reducing crime. therefore, my political priority is to increase the motivation to participate in lifelong learning. media campaigns, information and counselling centres, tailored communication for disadvantaged groups are all very important. special telephone numbers and websites have also proved very successful in some countries. in this context, reconciling work, family and lifelong learning is also of great importance. i would like to mention a few key words: adaptation of working hours, flexible working hours, distance learning and informal learning. the use of new technologies must be constantly practiced, especially with the expansion of internet access, to stimulate these new learning methods. the number of public and private day-care centres and childcare centres in the workplace must also be increased. but i also think that solidarity between generations and solidarity between cultures is important. the transfer of knowledge and skills from adults and seniors to younger adults - especially in the craft and business sectors - can be supportive. they can be practical guides, they have to be networked, and i think that's where you can learn from each other. but there is also a family learning approach. parents are motivated to go back to learning so they can help their children in school. voluntary work also needs adult education, so that it can benefit from the experience gained and the quality of the education it offers. the special needs of migrants must also be taken into account. i would just like to mention language courses. we need these language courses for the migrants so that they can learn the language of the host country. but we also need language courses for adults, so that they can learn the language of the neighbouring country or another language, as we have always said. access to higher education institutions for adults with practical work experience must also be facilitated. but what is very important is the quality and the pedagogy of the existing adult education institutions. the need for highly qualified adult education teachers and specific programmes in this field is also evident. in germany, i can only say, there is a university degree that leads to a diploma in adult education. i think we all need to remember that the proposed measures can be financed, for example, by the european social fund or by all the structural funds. of course, i expect the commission to offer the existing lifelong learning programme in both the grundvig and leonardo programmes, in order to get the action plan off the ground on our part. i think there are many ways to do good here, and we should do it quickly. i would also like to stress that the results of adult education must be measurable, otherwise we will not know who is doing what. there are many players in this field, and all of them must be taken into account, the private, the university and also the educational institutions of the public type. so there's a lot to do, and i would encourage you to get on with it!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the fact that education and training can no longer be confined to school and the immediate years thereafter, but must be updated and extended throughout working life, certainly does not require any persuasion in our century. demographic change, for example, speaks for itself here. the excellent report by mrs pack proposes a positive conglomeration of suggestions in this context and speaks quite successfully in this context of the introduction of a learning culture, especially for adults. it is a series of measures which should be taken at different levels. of course, this is primarily a matter for the member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am convinced, as is the rapporteur - and i say this as vice-president of the committee of the regions - that many member states are not fully aware of the importance and use of the european social fund and other structural funds in achieving this lifelong learning objective. they should monitor the structural funds to this end and also ensure that more funds are allocated to those who have the greatest need for lifelong learning. in short, the report clearly calls for the active use of the european social fund by the member states and for the commission to step up specific programmes in this area.
member of the commission. - i am convinced that many of the contributions that have been made are indeed encouraging for commitment to adult education. and in that line, or in that philosophy, as we've alluded to, it's never too late to learn, and the second document says that there's always a good reason or a good time to learn. i would therefore rather say that i regard the doris pack report itself, as well as a number of the suggestions that have been made here, as complementary or supplementary to what the commission itself has proposed, and that is why it is very valuable and welcome. i would like to mention some of the specific measures in particular, as they help and improve what is important in the overall approach: the motivation for participation in adult education; the need for better reconciliation or convergence between work and family life and lifelong learning; the need for intergenerational and intercultural solidarity; the importance of language training or teaching; respect for the specific, specific needs of vulnerable groups and the importance of the quality of teachers we have already discussed this recently and this is one of the decisive factors for study outcomes; better access to higher education and the production of comparable statistics or information. the commission will also deal with what you suggest in the call for an assessment of the employment prospects in adult education and also with the issue of funding adult education, because these are very difficult issues and are, of course, the competence of the member states. in conclusion, one of the outputs of this report, and of the commission's own documents, will be the discussion by the member states and the conclusions of the council of ministers in february next. i believe they will be concrete and serious about the accessibility and quality of adult education. if i may just conclude with one thought - not only the award and the thanks, but also what sounded like a reward of inspiration - as a commissioner, as a politician and as a father, i am convinced that education, that is to say the availability and quality of education, is a decisive factor for the political, economic, social and cultural development of individuals and of society, but secondly, that education is the most important equalizer, i.e. the balancer of what we need for equality for all. thank you very much, and i look forward to working with you.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank all my colleagues for the flowers they have given me. i'd like to give some of this bouquet to jan figeľ. i have been promoting adult education since 1993, and after the initial success of the grundvig programme, we have now achieved the great success of making adult education a priority in all policy areas. i am particularly concerned that all possible incentives should be created to motivate people to take up adult education. many have never had the chance, many need to be motivated. you also have to take away the shyness, the barriers, so that you can participate. i therefore believe that the many community colleges, foundations and charities which are already doing a good job of this should be supported and that the high level - i think it can be raised - must be maintained in these areas. as i said earlier, we must ensure that the quality of adult education is even better. i am glad to hear that a working party has already been set up in the area of your commission, mr figeľ. i'm glad that maybe this can also be linked to grundvig, and we can kind of trigger an initial spark for national governments. so let's start with that. it is now really necessary to follow the many fine words with deeds, and we simply have to refute the old german proverb: 'what hansen does not learn, hans never learns'. this is as wrong as anything can be, and that is why i hope that with our help and with your help we can now try to get the national governments on the horse to start galloping. it'll take a while to gallop.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. we have been discussing this in the coordination committee of the agriculture committee: shall we make a report on this matter or shall we let it go without a report? i was given the task of re-examining it, and we came to the conclusion that we should make a report, which also leads to the fact that we can talk again tonight, which is also valuable. but we have had to deal with a number of points which we have also included in the amendments. firstly, the commission report said that this was quite uncontroversial, even in the council. but we have found that there are some countries, particularly in northern europe, which have little use for these satellite data, because when they are recorded, everything is covered with snow. secondly, the data are collected from private companies which provide the data to the commission and these private companies are mainly active for customers coming from the oil and gas business, a business which goes as far as speculation. what we are concerned about and what we want to bring to parliament as a monitoring body is that the data collected are not really connected with speculative private ambitions, but are actually only needed for - as you say - forecasts of harvest and yields. but you also know that in the commodity futures markets today, that's what's being speculated about, and that foresight could be used for that. i would like to stress the common interest of the commission and parliament, but parliament has a duty of control here, and it is therefore sensible that we should raise this matter and ask the commission to report on what has happened to this data, how it is being used and what its usefulness is. the point is to hold you accountable for the next few years. then, of course, we were a little surprised that now, in continuing this data collection, the financial basis had to be changed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. now we can assume that the guarantee fund will no longer exist when the treaty enters into force, in early 2009, so that we will also take these areas fully under the budgetary authority of parliament. but at least this approach was proposed, and when we adopted the report it was not clear when the treaty would come. so we said: no, we do not want to change this at all, we want to keep it as it is, namely in a budget line which can then be controlled by parliament as regards expenditure. in conclusion, commissioner, i think that we have more important matters to discuss and decide on at the moment, concerning the health check, than what we have to negotiate here tonight. but farmers are very sensitive to the question of whether they are being spied on. you made it clear that this is not about controls, this is not about spying. i'd like to say that, but you have to understand. we must also ensure that this happens. we have discussed this, we have pointed it out, in order to be able to hold our electorate to account.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. the new system gives the rapporteur the last word. you see the european parliament's attitude towards the commission. we are not at odds about the continuation of the matter. i am not suggesting that the system should be abolished, i have merely suggested some improvements - i do not want to repeat them - which would strengthen parliament's control. as regards the data that can be used for climate issues, we pointed out that there are two pilot projects, namely lucas and mars. this also shows that the data collected go beyond the agricultural sector. the explanatory statement therefore calls for a separate budget line to be maintained. and i'll end with a little anecdote to show you what we're dealing with. a neighboring business was visited by the local authority because the satellite system had detected a forbidden gully, or sewer system. you said he had to be lying here and there, that's what the system said. the farmer said he had done nothing. and what happened? there was a plastic foot mat growing into the grass -- which is not supposed to happen -- and that was picked up by the satellite system. and now the law enforcement agency was there, trying to get him on the kanthaken. we have a lot of stories like this, but you've probably heard of them too. and the concern that it's being controlled in a way that's not understood by the public and not controlled by parliament is there. i would therefore ask you to understand that we must also have a report like this debated in parliament and that we must also be attentive in future! we are also going to support each other in this work.
in writing. - the report 'cars 21: a competitive car control system for the 21st century' has my full support. this report can help to strengthen the competitiveness of the automotive industry. in addition to new obligations for industry in the form of environmental regulations, we also need to simplify the industry, cut red tape and apply the principles of better regulation. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. it is particularly important that we favour the parameter 'weight' of the vehicles rather than the parameter 'footprint' in relation to the achievement of the co2 targets for a staggered period. only the weight of the vehicle and the co2 emissions are physically related. the parameter 'footprint' has no such link and is only suitable for placing the german automotive industry at a competitive disadvantage. we have explicitly advocated an integrated approach to take full account of all the possibilities for reducing co2 emissions. we want to see individual driving behaviour, the creation of incentives for the use of clean vehicles, the use of biofuels and the promotion of new vehicle technologies, among other things, contribute to reducing these emissions. it is not just the car manufacturers who are called upon to do this, but everyone involved!
i am not going to go into detail. today is a very special day. it is a special day because for the first time in the history of the european union the representative, the prime minister of this country, namely slovenia, is holding the presidency of the european union a country which joined the european union on 1 may 2004 with nine other countries. and it is the first time that one of the former communist countries, now living on the basis of freedom, democracy and parliamentarism, namely slovenia, has the presidency of the european union. i would like to congratulate the president of the european council, prime minister janez janša of slovenia. welcome to the european parliament! (applause from the centre) but today is also a special day in another way, and that is why i would like to extend a very warm welcome to the president of the european commission, josé manuel dourão barroso, because it was exactly 50 years ago today that the first president of the european commission, walter hallstein, convened his commission. that is why the commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the european commission is also an event to be welcomed. and that is why, for once, i wish the commission well on this special birthday, in this somewhat solemn context. (applause from the centre) i am not going to go into detail. it is a pleasure to hear the report of the president of the european council!
the chairman of the council. - it is an honour and a pleasure to be here with you today, and of course, a source of pride. proud as a slovenian, whose country is the first new member state of the european union entrusted with the leadership of the council of the union. and proud as a european whose union enters 2008 with the signing of the lisbon treaty with the enlarged euro area and schengen. and i promise you that in the months to come, if you invite me, i will be happy to come back to you many times, certainly after each european council. i want to work closely and constructively with the european parliament throughout the six-month period. today is a historic day in many ways. slovenia represents the presidency's priorities in the european parliament as the first new member state, as the first member from behind the former iron curtain and also as the first slovenian country to chair the council of the european union. this would not have been possible if the european continent had not undergone tectonic changes over the last quarter of a century. these have made it possible for europe to be largely united today in a union of peace, freedom, solidarity and progress. all of this was unimaginable to millions of europeans 20 years ago. in may of this year, it will be exactly 20 years since i had a very special personal experience. since it contains much of the symbolism of the changes mentioned, let me share it with you. in 1988 three of us journalists and one noncommissioned officer were arrested, imprisoned, tried, and sentenced by a military court for criticizing the then totalitarian communist regime in yugoslavia and especially the militaristic tendencies of the then yugoslav army. without basic rights of defense, without access to a lawyer, and without public presence. we were tried in the middle of ljubljana, the capital of slovenia, then a yugoslav republic, and tried in a foreign language. despite the secret trial and threats of intervention by the yugoslav army, tens of thousands of people took to the streets and squares to protest peacefully, demanding respect for human rights and democracy. they've reached the beginning of change. after almost exactly 20 years, i stand before you today, in this high house, in the european parliament, in the heart of strasbourg, which i can reach without stopping at the borders. as prime minister of the republic of slovenia and president of the european council, i can speak to you in my native language. if anyone had told me that 20 years ago in a military prison cell, i would not have believed a word of it. but all of this really happened. after only 20 years of the life of one generation. during this period, slovenia has established a democratic parliamentary system and a market economy, has become an independent, internationally recognised state, and is today a member of the european union and nato, the euro area and part of the schengen area. in 1988, 20 years ago, we had about 4,000 euros of per capita income in terms of purchasing power, and in 2007 we had more than 22,000 euros. we're at 91% of the european union average, our economic growth last year exceeded 6%, we have the lowest unemployment rate in history and one of the lowest in the european union. we have the second lowest poverty rate in the euro area, we are the third least indebted member of the euro area, and we are among the top 6 member states in the european union's reform barometer. similar or even greater progress has been made by the other former communist states of central and eastern europe, now members of the european union, since the fall of the berlin wall and the democratic changes. after the abolition of the schengen border between italy, austria, hungary and slovenia in december last year, tens of thousands of people in slovenia and also on the other side of the former border spontaneously celebrated this symbolic act. those of you who were with us at the time, mr president of the european commission, and those who were elsewhere, despite the cold weather, were very happy, and you saw that the reactions of the people were very emotional. and so it was everywhere on the former iron curtain borders from the baltic to the adriatic. on that occasion, i met an elderly couple from slovenia at the former border crossing, among other happy participants. they both had tears in their eyes. they spoke of the decades of hardship of living on the hard border and later of the humiliation of almost every crossing. the lady said she could hardly believe that all this was really happening and that the border would be practically gone. that something is happening that you couldn't have dreamed of 20 years ago, or even 15 years ago. i would like to see the members of the european parliament who supported the enlargement of the union and also of the schengen area present on that december evening. we would have had a great deal of satisfaction. since that was not possible for everyone, let me at least say thank you here. thank you on behalf of that elderly couple at the vanishing border at the former border crossing, on behalf of thousands, tens of thousands, millions, on behalf of more than 100 million europeans in central and eastern europe, who 20 years ago were still on the other side of the iron curtain, even in prisons, without political rights and many human rights, and today we are together in a united europe. with real possibilities for a good life, possibilities that neither we nor our ancestors ever had before. (applause) i would like to thank you. you may not even realize the powerful consequences of your decisions to support the cause of freedom and to stand with us. in all of human history, there's probably never been a decision like this. a decision that would bring so much good to so many people. thank you on behalf of all of us here today, and because you, who were not forced by any means to make such selfless choices, won freedom and solidarity - because you cared. as members of a generation not born in the european union, we probably have a slightly more emotional attitude to everything that has happened in recent years and decades. we do not take the european union for granted, we know that there is a different, much worse alternative, and we are prepared to do everything to preserve, develop and strengthen it. our main objective is to see europe continue to progress in as many areas as possible over the next six months. we identified these key areas long ago when we worked with germany and portugal to draw up the 18-month programme for the presidency. it was a unique experience, the trio was great, and so was the contribution of the european institutions. this parliament has already been informed of this programme and is also aware of the important progress made by our partners in the trio in implementing this joint programme last year. slovenia will endeavour to complete all that has not yet been done. our starting point therefore remains the programme in question, as we want to maintain the continuity of the european union's policies. we will also consider any new challenges that may arise. as the last country in the trio, we'll make sure the transition to the next trio goes smoothly. the main achievement in the implementation of the programme so far has been the agreement on a new treaty on european union, signed in lisbon last december. allow me to express my appreciation to chancellor angela merkel and prime minister sócrates for their personal commitment to this result. we must remember that the german presidency embarked on this project a year ago in uncertain and difficult circumstances. the berlin declaration and the agreement in principle it contained to give the european union a new treaty basis was the first breakthrough on the road to lisbon. after the successful agreement on the mandate for the intergovernmental conference at the june european council, our portuguese colleagues continued the successful work of the german presidency. under their leadership, the intergovernmental conference was successfully concluded and a new lisbon treaty was signed. i would like to take this opportunity to highlight the important role and contribution of the european parliament, and in particular of your representatives at the intergovernmental conference, in the drafting of the new treaty. i would also like to underline the important role played by the european commission in reaching agreement on the new treaty. i've been following this work closely, i know it, so i can speak firsthand. parliament's president hans-gert pöttering and commission president jose manuel barroso offered strategic assistance to the two presidencies last year with great personal commitment. the synergy of efforts between all three key eu institutions made it possible to succeed and sign the lisbon treaty. it will ensure greater efficiency and democratic functioning of the enlarged european union. decision-making will be facilitated in many new areas, and the role of the european and national parliaments will be strengthened. but with the signing of the contract, our job is not done. we have entered the period of ratification, which is as the experience of 2005 shows the most sensitive phase of the entry into force of the new treaty. i would stress that ratification is the sole responsibility and competence of each member state. i would like to congratulate hungary in particular, which has already done so. we hope that by the end of our presidency, most member states will follow suit. the slovenian parliament will decide on ratification later this month. the aim is to bring the contract into force on 1 january 2009. this means, among other things, that we will have to do a lot of work in terms of all the necessary preparatory actions. we are therefore working closely with the next president, france, to ensure that everything is ready in time for the treaty to enter into force. we will also work closely with the european parliament in this respect. ladies and gentlemen, the european union's progress in economic reform in the member states and in building the internal market has been encouraging in recent years. during this period, the union economy has strengthened, with a significant increase in productivity and employment. in particular, the next three-year cycle of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs should continue along the lines set so far, with a focus on investing in people, modernising labour markets, increasing entrepreneurial potential, providing affordable and reliable energy sources and protecting the environment. the timely adoption of integrated guidelines, for which the eu institutions are responsible, is essential to launch the new three-year cycle effectively at the spring european council. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to take this opportunity to reiterate the importance of constructive interinstitutional cooperation. implementing well-designed reforms in the member states, supported by the institutions at the level of the european union, where the implementation of common policies adds value, is the key to continuing the economic growth achieved so far. it can be challenged by many problems, so continuous reforms and adjustments are a necessity. even now, we face some more difficult challenges, key among them rising oil and food prices and the still-resonating financial market turmoil triggered by developments in the u.s. mortgage market. the slovenian presidency will devote all necessary attention to mitigating its effects. to this end, a comprehensive union programme of action to strengthen the stability of financial markets will be finalised in the first half of the year. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. investing in people, knowledge, research and new technologies remains one of the cornerstones of the lisbon strategy. a society based on creativity and knowledge is increasingly becoming a necessity for modern europe. but investing in knowledge alone is not enough. this year we have the opportunity to have a thorough debate on the kind of internal market we want for the union. we must ensure that there are no barriers to the flow of ideas and knowledge. at the spring european council, we therefore want to add a fifth to the four freedoms of the european union, where the union has made remarkable progress so far - the free flow of knowledge. this will be facilitated, inter alia, by the increased mobility of students, researchers and professors. the benefits of the union's internal market must be made more accessible to consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises. further rapid progress in the area of the effective establishment of the internal market for services and innovation is essential for the implementation of the european union's reform strategy. we want to do everything we can to make progress in the liberalisation of the internal energy market. i would also like to report to you at the end of our presidency on a successful agreement in this area. we hope that we will also be able to take the necessary steps forward to provide our citizens and businesses with a better, cheaper and more reliable supply of energy. ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the future of the eu, we must also talk about the enlargement process, which is not yet complete. enlargement is one of the european union's most successful policies. two years later, in 2006, the european commission, in its communication on enlargement, made a convincing case that the largest enlargement to date, the one in 2004, has benefited both the old and the new member states of the european union. just looking at a map of europe gives us the impression that the expansion is an unfinished story. it is essential that this process continues in accordance with the commitments made and on the basis of fundamental principles, first and foremost the principle of meeting the criteria for membership. the slovak presidency will work on this basis to continue accession negotiations with croatia and turkey. a special chapter is devoted to the countries of the western balkans. the thessaloniki agenda, which laid the foundations for the integration of the western balkan countries, was the last presidency of the european union held by a country bordering the region, greece. we believe that now, five years later, is the right time to confirm and consolidate the european perspective of these countries. the presidency intends to encourage their progress along this path. let me emphasize that we are not advocating lower standards, nor shortcuts of any kind. no, not at all. we want the european union to be more active in this area and to be more involved in helping countries in their reform processes. we must not forget that a firm and tangible european perspective is an indispensable lever for the necessary changes and reforms in these countries. we therefore want to strengthen this perspective, including through concrete actions in various areas. at the very heart of the western balkans is kosovo. in the 1970s, kosovo achieved autonomy and became part of the federal system of what was then yugoslavia. the position of kosovo was practically equal to that of the federal republics. fifteen years later, milošević first unilaterally revoked that status, then carried out an attempt at ethnic cleansing that was only stopped by the international community. after the intervention, peace was restored, but the question of kosovo's permanent status remained open. this is one of the most pressing issues facing the union today. it would of course be desirable if the issue of kosovo's status could be resolved in a way that would be fully acceptable to both parties directly involved. unfortunately, the lengthy negotiation process shows that the possibilities for such a thing are exhausted. nor does it appear that an agreement on this issue within the un security council is possible in the foreseeable future. on the other hand, we all know that the rescheduling of the solution could drastically destabilise a large part of the western balkans region. and that would be the worst possible outcome. kosovo is first and foremost a european issue. the slovenian presidency will build on the decisions of the december european council. we have the foundations on which a consensus has already been formed, we have the political agreement in principle of the european union to send a civilian mission to kosovo, we agree that the status quo is not sustainable and that the kosovo issue is a specific problem that cannot be transferred to any other situation in the world. in this context, the presidency will coordinate solutions that will enjoy the widest possible support within the european union, while ensuring long-term stability in the region. and kosovo is not an island in this region. all the countries of the western balkans are important for europe, for the european union. for slovenia, the region is our immediate neighbour even more than for some other eu members, and the current situation in the balkans represents an unfinished story in the geopolitical transformation following the end of the cold war. we want a happy ending, and as the european union, we are responsible for it, and we owe it to the peoples and cultures of this region. the stability of the region is of paramount importance for the european union as a whole, and can only be achieved within a european perspective. serbia has traditionally played an important role in the western balkans. it is crucial to promote its european path with the right approach and despite possible short-term turbulence and hesitation. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia was granted candidate status as early as 2005, but still has no date for negotiations. it has carried out many successful reforms, but it has some to complete and we must help it to do so. she must not become a prisoner of the wider situation in the region. the early resolution of kosovo's status is also of great importance for its internal stability. we also highlight the role of albania, which has had a special history after the second world war and which we now value for its contribution to stability in the region and its constructive attitude towards the issue of kosovo's future status. in the same category can be placed montenegro, which has also seriously set out on the path of reforms with the aim of being included in the thessaloniki agenda. the post-dayton structure of bosnia and herzegovina, with its international presence and the internal political instability of recent months, shows that this country needs special attention. much has been done, support for the european perspective is growing, but further help is needed. we must not forget the refugees who have not yet returned to their homes, as well as the great crimes that have not yet been punished. the sanctioning of crimes against humanity, peace and reconciliation are fundamental to the european future of bosnia and herzegovina and the region as a whole. there are many reasons for further strengthening our cooperation with neighbours, strategic partners and others. i have already mentioned the external border of the european union today. beyond this, we have important and valuable partners who need to be better involved in our diverse activities. the european neighbourhood policy is a welcome lever to strengthen an area of stability and prosperity beyond our borders. the eastern and mediterranean dimensions are equally important. we must not forget ukraine, moldova, the south caucasus or north africa. we need intensive dialogue, and new situations are constantly calling for new forms of concrete cooperation. these are very welcome. we want to strengthen institutions and processes such as the barcelona process and euro-med. but we do not need duplication or the institutions of the european union of competing institutions covering both part of the european union and part of the neighbourhood. the eu is a whole and only as a whole can it be sufficiently effective in bringing peace, stability and progress to its neighbourhood and beyond. we will also strengthen cooperation with our strategic partners in the council. during our presidency, we will organise four summits: with the united states, the russian federation, japan and the countries of latin america and the caribbean. with the countries of latin america and the caribbean, we will establish cooperation in achieving sustainable development and combating climate change and poverty. we want to consolidate and, if possible, formalise our partnership and cooperation with the russian federation during the slovenian presidency. during the slovenian presidency, the european union will be a reliable pillar of the middle east peace process. the eu will contribute to the implementation of the annapolis and paris commitments. we want both israelis and palestinians to live in safety, freedom and prosperity, and we will work for the coexistence of two peaceful states. the time is now ripe for a new and strengthened role for the european union in the world. europe enters 2008 with the lisbon treaty signed, the enlarged euro and schengen areas, solid economic growth, a strong euro and over three and a half million more jobs than at the start of last year. we have therefore every reason to lead the council of the european union with ambition, with optimism and, if our friends in paris do not mind, with vision. it's always needed. because if you don't know where to point the rudder, every wind is wrong. but there are many winds, especially the winds of change. the last two decades have not only shocked europe, but the whole world has been changing. and it will continue to grow even faster in the years ahead. some of the things that have happened, we haven't fully evaluated yet. we talk a lot about the economic rise of india and china. at the end, or at the beginning of the british presidency in 2005, i listened to a speech by the british prime minister, tony blair, in this house, and he pointed out these changes, pointed out that two new economic superpowers, india and china, are gaining strength. by the way, just this week, the two countries signed a series of mutual economic and trade agreements. these new players are investing more in knowledge, research and development, and improving their competitiveness. and it was rightly concluded that this is forcing the european union to think and act so that its competitive position will not deteriorate. over the years, we have often listed our shortcomings and discussed measures to overcome them. many of these measures have been implemented, some unfortunately not, but i do not want to go back to the objectives and commitments of the lisbon strategy. i would like to conclude by saying that it is not enough to speak of the changes facing the european union in a global world only in terms of competitiveness and the fight against terrorism. both answers are correct, but they're not enough. at the global level, the european union is facing the following key challenges, which will sooner or later have to be addressed in addition to those we have heard so far. the first such challenge is the question of reforming the un and creating a new world order. the european union can play a key role in this reform. another such challenge is the fight against poverty. this is one of the absolute priorities. international development aid provided by the european union is substantial, but not always used most effectively. if we want it to be more effective, we need two things: first, to focus on education, or raising the level of education in poor communities, and second, to buy the food and other products that we donate through development aid in the countries and regions to which we direct aid. only in this way can we effectively help to strengthen their agriculture and economy and help to eliminate the causes of poverty in the long term. in international development aid, the word 'competitiveness' must be replaced by 'cooperation'. we should rejoice in the fact that the underdeveloped are becoming more developed and the poor richer. the more developed countries there are, the more they can contribute to the fight against poverty. the third challenge is the fight against climate change. the european union has become a global leader with increased credibility and also a great deal of influence, as a result of the conclusions of last year's european council. and that role must be maintained. we will also do this by applying the same criteria we use internally to our external counterparts when it comes to burden-sharing in the fight against climate change, when we negotiate with other global partners. of course, the fourth such challenge is intercultural dialogue. it's needed now more than ever. in the long run, without it, there are no conditions for world peace and for responding to the greatest security threats facing the modern world. we are therefore pleased that 2008 is also the year in which the european union pays great attention to intercultural dialogue. we also welcome the participation of the president of the european parliament in the opening ceremony in ljubljana at the beginning of the month and the many important events organised by the european parliament in this context. this is a very important contribution to, first, raising awareness of the need for this dialogue and, second, to take concrete steps forward. we sometimes hear that all these things are not the real priorities of the european union, that we should be dealing more with domestic problems, but i believe that this is too narrow a view, because how we deal with these four key issues in the future, how the european union ensures its greater role and influence in the global world, is what most depends on ensuring peace and security for our citizens, a sustainable and secure supply of energy to the eu, and also managing the migratory pressures on the european union. on this basis, the union will be better able to act as a global actor, and its citizens will have greater guarantees of peaceful and secure life and stable economic and social development. ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by promising that slovenia will, or rather slovenia has, taken on this task with all responsibility after three years of intensive preparation. perhaps our presidency will not be as grand as the french, not as resounding as the german, and perhaps our bureaucracy will not have as long and excellent a tradition as the british. we may also make a mistake, perhaps saying something too directly, perhaps even naively. but we promise to work responsibly, to devote ourselves to the content. we're not competing for a spot in the spotlight. that's not important to us. we know where we started 20 years ago, when slovenia was underestimated by many. we know what it took to get us here today. and our greatest wish is that, as a result of our contribution, more europeans will be happy every month. that one day, any random stranger walking down the street in any european union city will be asked if he is worried about the future of the european union and will be able to answer without hesitation: 'i don't care what happens to europe tomorrow, because i know that europe doesn't care what happens to me either. ladies and gentlemen, we may not be here today, but we are close. on the right track. - thank you. - thank you. (applause) i would like to thank you.
i would like to thank the president of the european council, mr janša. it is wonderful that slovenia is holding the presidency. the group chairmen will present their positions shortly, but i can say for the whole parliament that the european parliament is on slovenia's side to ensure the success of the european union, and we are therefore confident that the slovenian presidency will be a great success. i now ask the president of the commission to speak to us.
president of the commission. − mr president, prime minister, members of parliament, my first word goes to the slovenian presidency. indeed, it is the first time a member state of the last enlargement has assumed this very important responsibility. slovenia is a great example of the success of the enlargement. it was the first country to adopt the euro. the example of slovenia demonstrates that the member states which joined the european union in 2004 and 2007 are now at the core of european integration. it also shows the very important european credentials of slovenia. i wish to express to prime minister janša my full support for the next six months for the very important task of being president of the european council. you, prime minister, dear friend, and your country, are symbols of the struggle for freedom, a fundamental value for europe. and thank you for reminding us of these great celebrations of schengen. i was very moved to be with you and with others on that border between slovenia and italy, and i will not forget the words you used at that moment, reminding us that, about 20 years ago, people were killed there by the yugoslav army when they were trying to reach freedom, to reach italy, to reach the european union. it was indeed a very impressive journey that i undertook with prime minister socrates and the president of the european council, and at the end of december we visited germany, poland and the czech republic; we were also on the border between estonia and finland, slovakia, hungary and austria, and we saw the emotion expressed in the eyes of so many people. i think it is important to remind ourselves about this, from where we are now. listening to you today, prime minister janša, could only reinforce my firm belief that this enlargement of 2004-2007, which united europe in peace and democracy, is indeed one of the greatest achievements of european history, and we should be proud of it. the commission will work very closely with the slovenian presidency on central issues of its programme, such as the stability of the western balkans, kosovo, and bosnia in particular, but also enlargement, the european neighbourhood policy, asylum and immigration, cooperation with strategic partners and intercultural dialogue. let me concentrate on three issues that are very much linked with our responsibility. i would like to focus on three priorities: the treaty of lisbon, the package on energy and climate change, and the renewed lisbon strategy. the year 2007 leaves the european union in good shape. progress towards the conclusion of a new treaty met our expectations. the union followed the roadmap that was presented by the commission in may 2006: first the berlin declaration, which celebrated the 50th anniversary of the treaty of rome and outlined a vision for the future of the union; then the june european council, where we agreed – under the german presidency – on a precise mandate for the igc; and finally, the signature of the treaty of lisbon in december. the process of reaching agreement showed a remarkable degree of consensus between member states and european institutions on the way forward. we have a credible and balanced treaty, and i believe that it provides strong foundations for the future. we have avoided much of the disunity and disagreements of previous institutional debates. this leaves the union in good shape to ensure we deliver our political priority for this year. the political priority for this year is the successful ratification of the lisbon treaty. i call on all member states to proceed swiftly and decisively to ensure ratification of this european treaty. next week, the commission will adopt the climate change and renewable energy package. our proposals meet the ambition set by all heads of state and government in last year’s spring european council, who called for precise and legally binding targets. the commission is now acting on that mandate. i see with great satisfaction that this is also a priority, both for the slovenian presidency of the council and for parliament. we will have to work hard to have the package adopted by the end of 2008. our package will complement the proposals presented last year on the energy internal market. a european energy market will give more options and better prices to european citizens, and it is essential to meet the three central challenges which the european union faces in energy: competitiveness, sustainability and security of supply. we knew from the very beginning that transforming europe into a low-carbon economy is not an easy task. but this is the moment to be serious, responsible and coherent with our commitment. the commission will follow a balanced approach to efforts asked of the member states. they start from different places; they have different circumstances; some are more able than others to finance investment. we also need to minimise the costs of adaptation for european industry and to address the challenges faced by energy intensive industries. the commission is well aware of these realities, as our proposals will show. but do not expect us to compromise on the european interest, which is to lead global efforts to fight climate change, to ensure energy security and to provide a competitive advantage to our economies. both our international credibility and the credibility before european citizens depend on the fulfilment of the targets established in march 2007. bali was a great success in setting out a roadmap to agreement, but our package next week is a clear demonstration of our willingness to put our money where our mouth is. the energy and climate change package should be seen as an opportunity for europe in economic terms. it will encourage innovation and it will increase competitiveness. it is a mistake to set the fight against climate change against the competitiveness of european industries. the union should lead global efforts to tackle climate change, and european industries should continue to be world leaders. at the same time, we will also create new markets and new jobs and will have the ‘first mover’ advantage in many of those sectors. it is true that our package aims at a more environment-friendly europe, but it will also contribute to a more industry-friendly, a more job-friendly and a more consumer-friendly europe. it will be a win-win initiative. three years after the relaunch in 2005, the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs is working. it has contributed to a better performance of the european economy, in particular to the creation of 6.5 million new jobs over the last two years. we expect the creation of five million jobs up to 2009. structural reforms are also helping economic growth and improving the prospects for european long-term prosperity. these are very encouraging achievements. as we launch the next lisbon cycle, we need to take ambitious decisions in the spring council on areas such as research, innovation, the business environment, professional skills and the qualification of labour. the commission is making proposals to turn the fifth freedom – the free movement of knowledge – into a european reality in order to speed up innovation and make it available to a higher number of european citizens. we also need a small business act for europe to foster the growth of the small and medium-sized enterprises. those small and medium-sized enterprises create nine out of ten new jobs. this is a priority for the commission in 2008.last but not least, europe needs active labour policies: policies that give people the skills to realise their potential, and policies that allow our citizens to secure their employability. investing in people is the surest way to guarantee our citizens that they will remain employed in spite of moving from job to job. we need to offer prosperity, not just for some, not even only for the majority, but for all. this is why investing in people and modernising labour markets remains one of the four priority areas for the new lisbon cycle. we must promote the entrepreneur spirit of europeans: the creation of jobs, innovation and competition are keys to european success. economic forecasts for 2008 and 2009 are already slightly less optimistic, and we should take these signals seriously. we know that the cause of this is some financial instability coming from the other side of the atlantic. yet we should fight negative discourses. our economic fundamentals are sound and solid. we also know that economic downturn could blunt the readiness to pursue economic and social reforms. it may be a natural reaction, but it would be the wrong lesson to draw from past experience. global competition and the prosperity of our citizens require that europe continue its reform process to be a more competitive economy. this is the only way to keep our model, our european model of social cohesion. one of the keys to success in 2007 was the commission’s ability to work well with parliament and the council. we would never have had agreement on the lisbon treaty or solutions for difficult dossiers like the european institute of technology and galileo without this partnership approach. the triangular institutional partnership between parliament, the slovenian presidency of the council and the commission will be crucial to our success in 2008. with a ratified treaty, an agreed energy and climate change package, and a delivering lisbon strategy of growth and jobs, we will certainly have in 2009 a more confident and a better prepared europe to face the future. finally, let me thank president pöttering for his congratulations on the 50th anniversary of the first meeting of the european commission. indeed, it has been a long journey since 1958 for this institution. the european commission has been at the centre of the european integration process as a source of dynamism and ambition, as a reference for all those who believe in the european project. today i am proud to be leading this institution at the beginning of the 21st century as we face new challenges and require new solutions. the european commission will remain loyal to walter hallstein and all the founding fathers who, 50 years ago, launched this great institution as a central player in our common project. in close cooperation with parliament and with the council, we will continue to promote our common goals: a strong europe, an open europe, a europe of freedom, prosperity and solidarity. and we are quite sure that, working hand-in-hand with the slovenian presidency and with prime minister janša, we will achieve concrete results for our citizens.
i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. on 16 january 1958 walter hallstein said - and i quote, it is a short sentence - to the members of the commission: 'your work will only bear fruit if you cooperate well with the other institutions, especially the council of ministers and the parliamentary assembly'. so much for the quote. today we are the european parliament, and what was true then, in 1958, is true in 2008, and i have no doubt: together, the european institutions, if they work together, will also succeed!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to reiterate on behalf of my group, mr prime minister janša, what i said to you on two occasions in ljubljana: we, the socialist group in the european parliament, are prepared to support your presidency with all our means. it is - and you were right to say so - a historic presidency. the presidency of a state which has emerged - and this should not be underestimated - from the dictatorship of the communist parties, with a prime minister who was himself a victim of that dictatorship, is indeed a presidency which not only needs the full support of all democrats, but which has a great chance of winning back the hearts of the people, because it gives us here in parliament, but also to everyone in europe, the chance to show once again that change is possible and that freedom always wins and democracy always wins! your country is proof that no dictatorship in the world will survive for long, it may last 10 years, it may last 30 or 100 years. in the end, democracy always wins, and that's a good sign. their soothing introductions, in their great objectivity, should set the tone for the whole of 2008. i do not know what will happen in the second half of the year, but at least we have talked about politics today, and that is something which gives us great pleasure. that's perhaps the first difference from the second half of this year that we've talked about politics today and not about private life. but it was already striking that we found some differences. one difference i would like to make is that, yes, the enlargement of the european union is not complete. yes, the enlargement of the european union is under negotiation. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union. you have made it clear that you want to pursue negotiations with turkey with a view to membership. the council presidency in the second half of 2008 does not want that. what we want is clarity from the council. are there now negotiations with turkey with a view to accession or not? this is one of the key points which you, as president of the council, will be best able to clarify first in the framework of the troika. the second difference is - and we heard this with great interest - that you consider the institutions of the european union to be strong enough to organise the neighbourhood policy on their own. - thank you. this is a clear rejection of the institutions of the union of the mediterranean by your presumptive successor in the office of president of the council. very well, we'll support you there too! (applause from the centre) we see that there are some fractures in the council, but you can be sure that at least the socialist group is on your side, mr janša. the president of the council has spoken of the opening of the schengen borders. this is also an important point, and i thank you for this commitment to the great opportunity that the associated freedom of movement offers to our citizens. i also thank you for the clear commitment - especially from a state like slovenia, a state with your country's history - that you see this as an opportunity for the freedom of your people. because by doing so you are also sending a signal against the extreme right in europe, which is abusing every one of these freedoms with its rhetoric of fear against europe, scaring people of some unthinkable developments instead of encouraging them to embrace the opportunities that freedom brings to people. (applause from the centre) i have a request to make to you, mr president of the commission. in germany there is a great debate about the relocation of nokia. you have just said that the strength of the european economy comes from small and mediumsized enterprises. that is true, but we also still have a huge share of industrial jobs. now in my country, the minister for economic affairs of north rhine-westphalia is claiming that this move of nokia's operations from bochum in germany to romania is being financed by european union funds. i do not think so, but i ask you to check it and make it clear that this is not the case, because even such rhetoric, so bitter and painful it is, if it is not true, is only water on the mills of those who are against the european unification project. that is why it is very important to clarify this point. (applause from the centre) a final remark to the president of the european parliament and the president of the commission. yes, walter hallstein was a great man. he has made a great contribution to the european union as one of its founding fathers, as one of the presidents of the commission, but the distance that hallstein's epigones have already travelled from his founding work can be seen in you, mr president, 50 years later. mr hallstein was a fervent supporter of turkey's accession to the european community. you are rather skeptical, and so are all your colleagues. in that respect, yes, walter hallstein was a great european! (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, mr martin schulz! the house's practice does not allow - or at least it is not customary - for a proper reply to be given to the president, even to humorously intended contributions from group chairmen. if i were in any other capacity, it would have been a pleasure to answer you, but i thank walter hallstein for his kind comment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we expect you, as chairman of your group, to behave in a parliamentary manner. make demands on yourself, not just on others! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to congratulate the slovenian presidency on its extensive programme, on the final phase of the programme of the three presidencies, but also on the successful development of its own country. you are part of schengen, you are part of the euro area, and it is really a historic council presidency, in which i ask you not to do as all the others before you have done, by presenting a programme that cannot be fulfilled in six months even as a large country. and you, as a smaller country, have the solidarity of the big ones, including the european parliament, but i ask you not to take it too seriously. the reform of the un will certainly not be possible during the slovenian presidency of the council this half year. there are very urgent problems to be solved, you have mentioned some. the most difficult will be the kosovo question. there, too, you are in a particularly difficult position. another is the further development of the internal energy market, the agreement with russia - these are priorities which you can really devote yourself to. and if we succeed in pushing ahead with the ratification of the lisbon treaty, then at the end of this six-month presidency you will be able to say: yes, we have succeeded as the first country from the former communist area to make this presidency of the council a positive example of prosperity, freedom and peace. finally, a little note on mr schulz, who is no longer here: he spoke here of the socialist group - in germany he does not say that - but we know that he did. in the end, he warned against right-wing radicalism, as if communism were a right-wing system! if i am quoting him correctly, he has also given you the task of bringing turkey forward. we have already complained to the commission that it treats croatia and turkey equally. don't get caught up in that. leave it to the big states that have not been able to solve it. if you focus on the western balkans, you will be doing a lot of good for europe and you may be more successful in that than in solving turkey's problems!
i firmly reject these attacks on the secretary-general of the european parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the alps are important for europe this year. slovenia holds the presidency of the council of the eu, switzerland and austria are hosting the european football championship all looking up at the mountains. i congratulate the presidency on taking office. it's an important presidency. the ratification process of lisbon is quite rightly your first priority. in kosovo, the esdp is being put to the test. we expect you to tell us in parliament - if we cannot get a security council resolution - that resolution 1244 is a watertight legal basis for all esdp action. my group chairman has said that we are against an accelerated stabilisation and association agreement for serbia without cooperation with the icty. we are celebrating the fact that slovenia is the first member state from the candidate countries to take over the presidency. we liberals have always been very strong in our support for this enlargement. we defended it even when the wind was against us at home. but we're not in a very celebratory mood right now. i am from north rhine-westphalia, and in bochum yesterday, 2,300 people learned that nokia was closing its production plant and moving it to romania. then the impression was given that this was being done with eu funds. i say this to the fdp in the strongest possible terms: the relocation of jobs within the european union must not be encouraged with eu funds! we will do everything we can to ensure that no eu subsidies are involved in this case. i see the president of the commission nodding. i hope we will get a clear opinion from the commission on this. this is a very important issue that scares people, fear of europe. this can't be! we will also ensure that any national subsidies in romania are subject to an examination under state aid law. this is a problem, and we hope that the qualified and motivated people in bochum will soon find work again!
mr poignant, i have to say that i am very pleased. it would be one of the most beautiful events to hear you sing the marseillaise and the european anthem.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission! i too am glad that slovenia is taking over the presidency of the council. i was the rapporteur-general of this parliament for the enlargement round of the twelve and it gives me great pleasure to see a country from this group take over the presidency for the first time. slovenia is also the most successful of the new member states - both schengen and euro countries - and has proven that these new countries are doing very well in europe. and it must be said that small countries are often the most successful in terms of the council presidency because they go into the business with full commitment. i wish you the best of luck with that, too. they have a variety of tasks: they must accompany and promote the ratification of the crucial treaty of lisbon and prepare the implementation of that treaty, which is at least as important. you have a serious problem with kosovo, where you have a special opportunity to do it for us because you know the region. but it also shows that the european union is often the one who is driven in foreign policy, that we are being played between the americans and the russians. when i see that at the same time as we are talking about strategies for central asia, gazprom is concluding gas contracts with kazakhstan, i have to say that we are not really taking a strategic approach to the issues that are crucial for our future, and i think that we may have to improve a little here. let me make one final comment. i too, from north rhine-westphalia, would be grateful if the president of the commission could clarify the issue of nokia. of course, there can be transfers. germany has benefited more than any other country from the european single market or the enlarged european single market, to put it bluntly. but it is very difficult to explain this to the people concerned if their job losses were financed by european funds or if undue national subsidies were used to do so. we ask for clarification, because if these rumours were to spread further, the european idea would suffer greatly.
we have ten minutes to catch the eye, one minute each at the most.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. so it is interesting to see who makes the most use of it.
the chairman of the council. - thank you, honourable members, for a very lively and interesting debate, questions, suggestions and proposals. a great deal of what you have said will be gladly taken up by the bureau over the next six months. i was pleased to hear your support for our priorities, and was particularly moved to hear that the slovenian anthem was even quoted here, not by my colleagues from slovenia but by a colleague from france, or when slovenian products such as elan skis were mentioned, and so on. in short, it has been a great pleasure to follow this debate and i shall be happy to answer some of the questions, but unfortunately time does not allow me to answer all of them. the ratification of the lisbon treaty is certainly one of the key political priorities of the european union in 2008. the importance of this treaty was first realized at the time before it was signed. everyone was talking about the crisis. the meaning of this treaty is the same now that we have signed it, but of course it has not been ratified, and here is our responsibility now. more specifically, the concrete responsibility of each member state to ratify in accordance with the procedures laid down by the constitution or national law and, if possible, to do so within the time limits we have set ourselves. neither as one of the member states nor as the presidency during these six months wishes to interfere in the internal affairs of any member state. there have been some misinterpretations of some of the statements, especially in some countries. we have never said otherwise, and we have always called for solidarity from all the others in dealing with sensitive issues that could affect the ratification process in those member states where the subject is sometimes controversial. the progress of the european union does not begin with the slovenian presidency, but we are confident that it will continue in all areas. the priorities listed are not in order of priority in the sense that the next one will be addressed after the first one has been completed. we will try to do our utmost in all the areas we have listed as priorities, as well as in the others. i am glad that the president of the european commission was a little more specific in what i was running out of time to say. the environmental and energy package will certainly be one of the key challenges in the coming months and also until the end of this year. we must now prove in practice that we are serious about the objectives we set ourselves last march. i would like to reiterate that i have no doubt that only healthy economic growth can be the real basis for prosperity, that it must be a priority, the lisbon strategy is clear on this point, but i would also like to stress that the story does not end there. this is where the story of social justice begins, and both are important. but you have to remember that you have to create first and then you can share equally. as regards the questions that have been raised most frequently, relating to the situation in the western balkans, i would like to answer some very specific questions. first, the legal basis for resolving this issue. we would not want the european union to start a long debate about what the legal bases are, which are stronger, which are weaker, now that we are at the end of a long period of finding solutions by consensus. there is no need for europe to be divided because others are divided on this issue, and the unity of the european union in tackling this issue will be one of our priorities. i would point out that a similar question and debate on legal grounds in the mid-1990s resulted in over 100,000 deaths in bosnia and herzegovina, a million displaced persons, and that lost time is difficult to make up, but we can learn from it. when it comes to bosnia and herzegovina, it was never said that it was a bigger problem than kosovo in terms of security, but it was said that in some places it was a very serious problem, like the return of refugees. in bosnia and herzegovina there are still a very large number of refugees who have not been able to return to their homes. and in terms of the refugees returning to their homes, there are a lot of moves that are planned that need to be made in this country that cannot be made without that happening. that is one of the challenges that we face, and i'm afraid some of the words have been misinterpreted. so, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the parliament, mr president of the commission, the priorities that have been set are our common challenge, and i welcome your support in making them a reality together. i would like to stress once again the importance of cooperation and the synergy that can be achieved through the cooperation of all three key institutions of the european union - the european parliament, the european commission and, of course, the council. we'll do everything we can to maximize this synergy. i look forward to many more visits to slovenia during the presidency and to fruitful and, as it turned out, very lively discussions with you. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president of the european council! i would like to thank you very much for the convincing presentation of your programme for the slovenian presidency. all the contributions to the debate by the group chairmen responsible and also by other members of the european parliament have shown that you can count on the european parliament's full and unreserved support. i wish you every success in your work, on behalf of all of us.
president of the commission. − mr president, thank you for this very interesting debate, where i think there was a very large consensus supporting the priorities that were presented by the slovenian presidency. during my first statement i highlighted some – because i could not go into detail on all aspects – of the priorities for our work during these six months: the ratification of the lisbon treaty, the new cycle of the lisbon strategy and also our climate and energy package. specifically on this point, i was very encouraged by the support that many of you gave to our work on this matter. it is very important that we now deliver on our commitments. the heads of state and government agreed on ambitious targets – a 20% reduction in the emission of greenhouse gases and 20% for renewables. we cannot have the targets and then not deliver on the means of achieving those targets. it is a question of coherence and of credibility, and i was very encouraged by the support given to this during today’s debate. i would like just to answer one question that was brought to the debate by mr schulz, mr lambsdorff and mr brok regarding a specific problem that is now being discussed in germany – the question of possible funding for relocation of a company in europe. i can tell you that the operational programme on competitiveness for romania has a specific clause banning the use of structural funds for the cofinancing of delocalisation. the european commission has not received any project relevant to this issue, so the commission can confirm that no european regional development funding is implicated in this relocation. of course we consider that it would be unacceptable to use funding from european union funds for relocation inside the european union. (applause)at the same time it is true that the european union, through the phare programme, has funded an industrial park in romania where several companies are now investing. this is important and i will draw the attention of all my colleagues here, especially our german friends, to this debate and how important it is to have a responsibility in this debate. we have to make a distinction between delocalisation outside the european union and relocation in europe. if investment goes from finland to germany, it can also go from germany to romania. let us be honest about it. we have to make clear that this is not delocalisation outside the european union. as you remember, the commission and i have proposed a globalisation adjustment fund that is already working precisely for cases where some jobs could be affected by delocalisations outside the european union. it is very important that european leaders at all levels in the european union – in the commission, in the european parliament, but also at national level – also have the courage to explain the benefits of enlargement. (applause)germany is the country that is now exporting more to the new member states. the enlargement of the european union is creating jobs in germany too. german companies are also investing a lot in the new member states. so it very important from a european perspective that we all explain that enlargement of the european union is not only good for the new members but it is also an opportunity for the european union as a whole. (applause) at the same time, i agree that we have to check that no structural funds money is used to finance a specific delocalisation of a company. that would be unfair competition. but i call on all those who are pro-european to stand up and defend this united enlarged europe, and also to exploit the benefits that we all, in all the new member states, are getting from this more dynamic europe that we can build today. (applause)
i am grateful to the commission president for this clarification. we wish the slovenian presidency every success. we're going to the press conference together. this is where the votes are being taken. i thank you for the very intensive and good debate. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to take the opportunity to clarify a point which was raised in yesterday’s debate on the proposal for a consumer credit directive. this point concerned the new version of article 8 concerning the obligation to assess the credit-worthiness of consumers. both amendments 46 and 45 foresee that member states whose legislation requires creditors to assess the creditworthiness of consumers on the basis of consultation of the relevant database may retain this requirement. as i understand it, this also means that the sanctions foreseen in this national legislation for a failure of the creditor to fulfil these requirements could also be retained.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. after six years of deliberation in the committees on this directive, i would like to make a few comments. i would like to say first of all that this is not to be criticised, but that this long period of time shows the great seriousness with which the european legislator has dealt with this complicated matter and how much we all care about the protection of consumers in europe. i am confident that with today's vote the legislative procedure will be concluded, which is also in my view despite all the differences in the matter here and there. i would like to make it clear that all the common amendments which are now before us, without exception, improve the council's text, the common position, in my view. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. in the interests of clarity, i would say that we have decided, for the sake of consensus and in order to reach a conclusion here, also in article 16 (2), which until recently was in fact disputed only because of wording issues, to agree to the motion by the socialists and liberals, so that this question too is then settled by consensus, as we have also withdrawn some other motions for the sake of consensus. i would like to express my sincere thanks to the commission, the council and my colleagues - we have had very intensive discussions, even disputes - for the cooperative and pleasant cooperation. as regards the remaining proposals from us, i would stress that in my view they are merely an additional improvement to the common position and would in no way affect the protection of consumers and the benefits they would derive from the directive, because that too is a high priority for us. i would like to conclude by expressing the hope that the positive expectations which have been placed on the directive will be met. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i would like to make a statement of my vote on the excellent report by mr angelilli on the eu strategy on children's rights. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the victims of such crimes are also found on their own doorsteps. in the border area of germany, the czech republic and austria, for example, prostitution of women and increasingly children increased massively after the opening of the borders. however, this issue has been neglected at eu level for a long time. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the report takes these areas and embeds them in the overall strategy. although much remains to be done to combat child abuse, this is an encouraging sign.
in writing. - i would like to make a statement of vote on the angelilli report on the eu strategy on children's rights. it is a very good report. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the victims of such crimes are also found on their own doorsteps. for example, in the border area of germany, the czech republic and austria, prostitution of women and increasingly children increased massively after the opening of the borders. however, this issue has not been a priority at eu level for a long time. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. the report takes these areas and embeds them in the overall strategy. although much remains to be done to combat child abuse, it is an encouraging sign.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i should like to begin by thanking the council, the commission and also my colleagues in the european parliament. we have a great deal of agreement among the institutions. this makes me personally very happy, and i say this on behalf of my team of over 150 election observers, more than 50 of whom were stationed in kenya for over a month. this unity here is a good sign. some of these observers - i want to say this here - are now on their way to pakistan or have already arrived there, where the next difficult election is coming up. election observation is sometimes a hard and dangerous job. i want to thank these people very much for their commitment. what you stand for is the europe of common values. we can be proud that - the commissioner has just mentioned it - other observer missions have joined our judgment, such as the commonwealth delegation and the international republican institute from the usa. i believe that the work of the monitoring mission has thus laid the foundations for a joint effort by the european union, africa and the united states to find a solution to the crisis in kenya. the european parliament will indicate in its resolution the ways in which it considers appropriate. i myself, as chief observer, did not participate in these discussions. the neutrality of our mission must, in my view, be clearly maintained to the end. the final stage is the submission of our final report, which we are currently working on. this consistent neutrality was our strongest point, together with the professional work of our observers on the ground. and part of that neutrality and professionalism is that we're working on evidence only. we have concluded in the result that there is doubt about the outcome of the presidential election. we never said as an observation mission that a particular candidate won the election. what we said is that it's not possible to determine who the winner is. i would like to quote in english from the kenyan election observers who wrote the following: in our view, considering the entire electoral process, the 2007 general elections were credible in as far as the voting and counting process is concerned. the electoral process lost credibility towards the end with regard to the tallying and announcement of presidential results. this is according to the kenyan national observers, who had 16,000 to 20,000 people stationed. that's exactly what we're judging. now, i want to say something that applies to myself, to the team, and to everyone: we hope for a speedy resolution of the crisis, for an end to the violence and for the return of refugees to their homes as soon as possible!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we all agree that what is happening in kenya is tragic and that the violence that continues today must come to an end. the crisis in kenya is deep and, in my view, not just political. it may well have an impact on the situation in the neighbouring african countries. it is true that there are agitators in kenya who are trying to stir up ethnic hatred in order to gain power. but if you read, for example, the kenyan free press these days, it is very encouraging to see how many journalists are constantly trying to stand up for the unity of the country and the unity of the kenyan people and to oppose the fragmentation of society. the problem is that the failure to involve large sections of the kenyan population in the economic recovery of kenya is a problem that can lead to violence. we must put much more emphasis on our development cooperation efforts to bring about change here and in particular to fight poverty in kenya in a very concrete way. i also think it is problematic to discuss the withdrawal of budgetary aid to kenya because it is fuelling fears in kenya about the future. i would like to thank commissioner michel for the clear support that the eu has given to kofi annan and other african union mediators in helping to resolve these processes in kenya through african politicians.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the extent of corruption in kenya is not new, and as a consequence many member states - indeed all member states - have in recent years stopped budgetary aid and switched to project aid. this is actually one of the criticisms i would like to make to the commission, since the commission has apparently not taken note of these concerns of the member states and has continued with the budgetary aid. i am also in favour of continuing aid in an appropriate form, but not in the form that the existing structures are given the opportunity to manage the money through budgetary aid. i am also very much in favour of supporting the institution that is now legitimated, namely parliament, in the future. it is not automatic that all elected parliamentarians are clean and free of corruption. i'm not under any illusions about that. but we should direct a considerable part of the support to kenya's political institutions, to the support of parliament and to the strengthening of the working capacity of our colleagues. we have a chance that these newly legitimized colleagues will have a chance to manage kenya better in the future than the previous government has managed.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the committee on budgets welcomes the commission's proposal to transfer europol from intergovernmental to community status. if europol is to be fully financed by the european budget in the near future, then the budgetary rights of parliament must also be guaranteed by the structures. the committee responsible has thankfully accepted all our amendments to this effect. i also hope that the list which commissioner frattini has just read is not an exhaustive list, because i still have a number of amendments to make. we are also aware that this would mean that part of the administration would be financed by operating resources. we now call on the council to come to the table with us immediately and agree with us on the financing of europol. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. before i get into the subject, i would like to thank mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra for the constructive and excellent cooperation. we have worked very well together, and, moreover, despite the criticism of the rapporteur by the socialists in individual cases, we have also worked very well with our colleagues in the socialist group. we have no reservations whatsoever about the expansion of europol, which was set up in 1994 as the european drugs agency and was transformed into europol as we know it in 1999. this is necessary to protect our people and to combat organized crime, which is not bound by borders, whether at sea, on land or in the air. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but it's also important to understand that there are certain ground rules in police work. immunity for europol officials, as provided for in the annex, is not comprehensible. that's the way to put it. it is not clear why european police officers can have more powers than others in the form of europol officers. the fact that there is no parliamentary control of police cooperation is also incomprehensible. finally, we want to create a functioning authority which can be held accountable when it makes mistakes, not the sheriff of nottingham. the same applies to the judicial review of europol. it is inconceivable that a police authority in europe can operate without its actions being subject to judicial control. we therefore, as liberals - perhaps mr pirker has misunderstood this - have tabled an amendment to include a revision clause, as mr fava has already said, so that the european parliament can deal with this again six months after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. moreover, we here - at least as the liberal group - also expect a clear commitment from the council that this revision clause will be taken into account and incorporated in the negotiations. we do not want to use rule 53 or rule 168 of the rules of procedure - that is, referral back to committee - despite the structural majority, because we too believe that we need this authority now and that its development should not be delayed. but if we are forced to, we must do so.
i have to say, madam president, i felt that the minister had misunderstood this, and i would like to point out very briefly that the revision clause does not in any way jeopardise or affect the ratification of the treaty, but only ensures that once ratified, parliament will be re-examined on the europol report. after consulting other permanent representations, i do not think that this danger is generally recognized.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. benazir bhutto is said to have told her son: "the realization of democracy in pakistan is our revenge on military rule". ladies and gentlemen, let us ensure that this legacy of benazir bhutto is not only a mandate to her son, but to all of us and to the international community to ensure and help that there are democratic conditions in pakistan. the situation there is not good, as many speakers have said before, and the way in which this attack on benazir bhutto has been handled is downright appalling. i too would urge us to ensure that there is an international investigation into this assassination attempt. scotland yard may be doing some preliminary work on this, but i think it would be good if this investigation were to be carried out on behalf of the un. the commissioner and the president-in-office of the council have said that stability in pakistan is in our interest - very much so - but we are always looking at the minority of terrorists. if you're in pakistan, you'll hear that the military system is creating instability, and president musharraf has a fair share of the blame for the situation getting worse. he was here in parliament last year. we have told him all the criticisms, nothing has improved, much has deteriorated, and i do not understand why he can come back to this parliament next week. the civil society in pakistan sees this as a secret complicity in the west finally accepting the military system and mr musharraf as a person. i think we should be very clear next week.
the chairman of the council. - i repeat, and i repeat with all my strength, it is not within the competence of the council, or even within the council's custom, to take a position on or comment on individual television programmes - which does not diminish the gravity of the problem you are talking about, certainly not. but i personally see solutions in the direction that your question suggests, namely, ratification of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. and it is for this very reason that i referred in my introductory reply to the resolution adopted by the council in december 2007 calling on the member states to ratify the convention.
the chairman of the council. - i still don't know, sometimes it usually turns on by itself, sometimes it doesn't, so i apologize for the time gaps. the council does not, of course, exclude, nor can it exclude, the possibility mentioned by mr posselt in his question. as is known, the european council decided in december 2005 to grant the former yugoslav republic of macedonia candidate status. in accordance with the council conclusions of 12 december 2005, that is to say a few days before the european council, this country is required to implement effectively the stabilisation and association agreement. on this basis, the commission also prepared progress reports and these reports for 2006 and 2007 do not contain recommendations for the opening of accession negotiations - arguing that the relevant criteria have not yet been met. the presidency expects that in 2008 the leadership of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, from across the political spectrum, will jointly step up efforts to achieve results in all the various areas where progress is needed and, in the light of developments in the country, in particular the progress made in the last month, i assess that it is possible to make a step forward this year in setting the date for the opening of accession negotiations. the slovene presidency is very keen to do this, very keen to make such progress, but of course it depends on the country itself and its success in meeting the benchmarks and making progress on reform.
thank you for the very good answer. let me make a personal remark, for once: when slovenia became independent in 1991, i was the only eu citizen in ljubljana to attend the independence celebrations. i was also in ljubljana during the short war, thank god, and later i was rapporteur for the association agreement in this house. i just want to say that today is a historic day for me. i'm very happy. i apologize for the personal remark. i would like to ask you, mr president, whether you think that the name issue between macedonia and greece is a bilateral issue and whether a bilateral issue can have an impact on the accession negotiations.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we cannot discuss the south caucasus without thinking of our former colleague, ursula schleicher, who has shown particular concern for this region and to whom we owe the replacement of the colonial term 'transcaucasus' by 'south caucasus'. these are three countries which are very different, with ancient cultures, but which have suffered from colonialism and neo-colonialism until very recently. that is why we must be very sensitive in this area. the armenian genocide in western armenia has led to turkey considering an unacceptable blockade of present-day armenia, that is, eastern armenia. georgia was a colony of russia and the soviet union in a special way, which is why separatist forces in georgia are still being used and abused by moscow to destabilize that country. azerbaijan is in a similar situation. and for all these reasons, we as the european union must play a strong role in this region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that is why we have a unique opportunity here to mediate, to democratize and to stabilize, and we must reconcile very contradictory principles and interests: on the one hand, of course, the stability of the frontiers, but on the other hand the right of self-determination of peoples. we must support minority rights as broadly as possible, but at the same time prevent destructive separatism. we must protect the interests of raw materials and geopolitical interests, but at the same time we must see that these are not colonies, but partners who have their own interests and their own dignity and who must finally be recognized in that dignity. the polfer report therefore responds very well to this difficult challenge, and i also thank the commissioner for her great commitment to this region.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, thursday 17 january 2008. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the commission's statement on the outcome of the internet governance forum held in rio de janeiro last november.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me start with the next steps, which are more concrete. following the rio meeting, consultations will be held in geneva next month to collect views on the outcome of rio and the preparation for the next meeting in new delhi. the commission participates in the advisory group which assists the un secretary-general in the preparation of the igf. as has been our practice since the world summit on the information society, we will of course inform members of the outcome of this meeting. i would now like to answer some of the specific questions raised by meps, starting with ms trautmann. we welcome the fact that ms trautmann addressed, in her speech at the opening session, the issue of the ‘internet of things’ and the possibility of bringing this up at the igf next year. with regard to the second part of ms trautmann’s speech, regional igfs have emerged in a number of places, and this appears to be a useful way to focus on questions of internet governance that are of particular importance for a specific region. the commission strongly supports this idea. moving on to mr savi, we could not agree more with his statement, and this is why the commission is committed to the development of the e-application with the broad programmes and legislation. to mr czarnecki, the commission is committed to all the initiatives on child protection. we promoted the item on the igf agenda and we are about to propose a renewed programme on child protection on the internet.
the debate was concluded by the tabling of a motion for a resolution, signed by six political groups, pursuant to rule 103 (2), which will be voted on at 12 noon today. the debate is closed. (the sitting was suspended at 11.40 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
mr president, after the parliament in its infinite wisdom has adopted compromise amendment no 62, the alde group's amendment no 61 is superfluous and is therefore withdrawn.
i would suggest that we start with the explanations of vote, break off the sitting at 1 p.m. and then the explanations of vote which have not been dealt with will be tabled this afternoon, at the end of the debate, after all the votes have been taken. (applause from the centre and the right)
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. our group has nominated mr hu jia and his wife, zeng jinyan, for the sakharov prize. the couple, who were under house arrest, participated via webcam in a european parliament hearing on the human rights situation in china. hu jias's re-arrest is a demonstration of what he himself warned against. does china want to show that it despises the opinion of the european parliament? human rights must be embedded as a cross-cutting issue in all eu-china relations. we too must be coherent and consistent and not simply sacrifice our values on the altar of good economic relations. we therefore call on the council and the commission not only to take a stand for hu jia with the chinese government but also to call for human rights at the next eu-china summit. china must end the systematic intimidation of human rights activists. if china does not change its attitude, the question of the conditions under which participation in the olympic games will take place will have to be re-examined. russia is one of the next hosts of the winter games, and human rights are not respected there either. (applause from the centre)
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. seven months before the olympics, china is demonstrating how little it cares about respect for human rights. the hope that the ioc decision would improve matters in the middle kingdom has been dashed. in october and november 2007, the state security service abducted and ill-treated lawyers gao zhisheng and li heping. in late december, he jailed human rights activist and cyber-dissident hu jia, accusing him of calling for the undermining of state power via the internet. on 10 october, he attended a press conference on human rights at the european parliament in brussels. he was on the phone with us live from china. we have him to thank for this brave act. last year he and his wife, zeng jinyan, were nominated for the european parliament's sakharov prize. in his blog, he writes about political prisoners and the victims of land grabs related to the olympics. in a letter, he thanked german chancellor angela merkel for receiving the dalai lama. this was clearly too much for the official chinese. in an open letter, 57 chinese intellectuals called for hu jia's release. our president, hans-gert pöttering, has joined in. it is a slap in the face when human rights defenders are imprisoned not least because of their contact with the european parliament. we must use all diplomatic means to secure his immediate release from prison. china promises the world the greatest olympics ever. the price for this must not be censorship or disregard for the rule of law.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the hideous mass rape in the congo is systematic, and therefore it is also used as a military strategy, and this is not just war, this is sexual terror against women. the brutal rape is now used by every warring party in eastern congo, whether local tribal militia or national army, as a sign of power and a means of intimidation. it is the most vulnerable members of society, women, children and even babies, who are barbarically abused, deliberately wounded, maimed, infected with hiv or other infectious diseases or killed. we know, we have heard, that this brutality is beyond any human imagination, and we urgently need the fact that rape is finally condemned as a crime against humanity, as a war crime and also as torture. but when rape victims return to their villages alone after major operations - often without all female genitalia - traumatized, they find no protection there. i therefore can only support what mr borrell and mrs scheele have just said: we must also use european funds for women's homes, which are a kind of refuge for women after their hospital stay, where they can then try to build a new life. because alongside physical violence, the psychological violence inflicted on the victims is immeasurably cruel. we know that most of the attacks are committed by rebels, but almost one fifth of the registered cases are attributed to government troops and police, and it is indeed shameful that not a single perpetrator has been arrested or even charged. and that's why it's not enough to just say it. we need political action by the un and the european union if we are to ... (the president withdrew the floor.)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am one of the few people in this room who have heard president sadat's great speech in the european parliament. this speech could be considered the guiding document of the year of intercultural dialogue which we have just begun. it was one of the greatest speeches ever given in this house. president mubarak has also been an important and trustworthy partner of the european union for decades, despite the many mistakes and shortcomings that have naturally occurred in egypt. i therefore cannot understand the language used by the president of the egyptian parliament in his response to this resolution. we say in a reasonable and moderate way that we consider egypt to be one of the most important partners in the mediterranean, but we criticize on concrete points and on the basis of clear facts that there is also a lot to change on the way to democracy and the rule of law. this is our obligation to our peoples and to the egyptian people. i believe, in fact, that the severing of relations that is threatened would be exactly the wrong way to go. we must talk to each other, and that is why i am voting in favour of this resolution, which is drafted in a reasonable language, and i am appealing to the egyptians not to see this as an interruption of the dialogue, but as a clear signal for the beginning of a more intensive dialogue with egypt, which we want to have on the basis of this resolution.
i have to say, madam president, could it be that the people who have been asking for roll-call votes for the last few days have not done so this afternoon because almost all of them are not here? (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. do you remember bali? i'm sure you do, mr dimas. the european union was almost synonymous with international efforts to protect the climate, international solidarity, sustainability. it was a wonderful feeling. i've been proud of you many times, mr. dimas. i was even proud of the german federal minister for the environment. it has become clear to me once again that the european union can win back the consent of its citizens to really good global climate action. but this consent, mr barroso, is very easily lost, especially when words and deeds are understandably separated. i have read a great deal about the debates in the commission. i think that if you do not stick to your proposals on emissions trading, you will be breaking a very important instrument. i believe that if clean coal continues to dominate, if nuclear power is promoted covertly, if fossil fuels are central and not another transport policy, if efficiency - the priority of priorities, mr piebalgs - is increasingly a shadow existence, then we will not be able to achieve good climate protection. (applause from the centre) the attacks by european industry on the proposals are intolerable. after all, it was the free market that created this climate problem. it wasn't china and india that were over-exploiting and emitting far too much co2. we did. the free market will not solve the problem. the free market must be regulated in the interests of climate protection. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're ready to do that. we believe that only with ambitious proposals from the european level can we make progress in the international negotiations on the question of external security. we can't go to posey with weak instruments. we must also take the lead in poznan and copenhagen. i look forward to working closely with you, mr dimas. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. you know that i am very much attached to the economy, the environment and common policy. today you have developed a little further the vision of angela merkel and the heads of state and government. the vision of spring was just right. she had come at the right time. but it needs to be brought to life now, and you haven't let the cat out of the bag. i haven't heard much about numbers today. i would like to do that because we want to solve this problem together with the parties concerned and not against them. the programmes you have put on the table in the last 14 days and today will have a profound effect on the economic and industrial policy of europe. that is why i believe we need a lot more shoulders and not just the big pillars. i am a little disappointed, mr dimas, that waste policy, and in particular landfill policy, is not playing a major role here. we can save millions of tonnes of co2 in europe for the benefit of large-scale industry that operates globally if we are brave enough. we've all learned in the last two years that we have a lot more than just a climate problem. we have a resource problem in the future. our children will ask us terrible questions, commissioner and president, if we do not respond with more courage. of course we must be fair to the companies and the environmental associations, and i would emphasize the five priorities you have set out. we cannot put the multinationals in their shoes and expect them to win the competition. i can't do that. we must put butter on the fish, as we say in my language. there is only one ets: the best known and most reliable system is the ets. we must learn from our mistakes, but we must keep it short. we're not doing anyone a favor by being too generous. it's got to be close, it's got to be fair. then i'm with you. the european union should not be so afraid of this climate change issue. we should use it as an opportunity, as an opportunity for our environment, as an opportunity for industry and as an opportunity especially for future generations. (applause from the centre)
i hereby declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on wednesday, 23 january 2008.
i am not going to go into detail. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the union. (applause from the centre) the slovenian parliament voted in favour of the treaty by a very large majority. the maltese parliament even voted unanimously in favour of the treaty. this is an important political signal. the member states are thus making clear that they want to move swiftly forward with the ratification of the treaty so that it can enter into force on 1 january 2009 as planned. i congratulate slovenia and malta on this forward-looking decision. (applause from the centre) the slovak parliament, as you know, postponed its vote yesterday for reasons of internal policy. i call on all political leaders in slovakia to live up to their great political responsibility.
i called to comment on the minutes. i would have expected the chairman of the ind/dem group to have understood the president's remarks and to have reported to the minutes. he specifically didn't, so we're moving on.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 17 january 2007, in accordance with rules 130 and 131, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: brussels: at the request of the gue/ngl group and in agreement with all the groups, i propose that a statement by the high representative for the common foreign and security policy, who is already present and whom i warmly welcome, be placed on the agenda as the second item on today's agenda, following the statements on the situation in iran. (parliament adopted the proposal) ) it was also requested that the debate be concluded by the tabling of motions for resolutions and that these motions be put to the vote during the february partsession.
i have to say, mr. hannan, if you quote, it would boost your credibility if you quote everything. article 19 also states that the president has all the powers to preside over the proceedings of parliament and to ensure that they are conducted properly. in order to obtain legal advice and not to be left to my own devices, i have taken the democratic route and consulted those who understand the rules of procedure best, namely the committee on constitutional affairs. and the committee on constitutional affairs has given me, the president, or my representatives, the interpretation on which we can proceed. i have no understanding of what it is to call this undemocratic, because it is a democratic and fair parliamentary procedure that is being respected here. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the statements by the high representative for the common foreign and security policy and the commission on the situation in iran. i would like to extend a very warm welcome to the high representative, mr javier solana, in the european parliament. mr high representative, you have the floor.
high representative for the common foreign and security policy. − mr president, i do not want to interfere in the debate which is taking place, but i take the floor at your invitation. let me start by thanking you for the invitation today. it is the first time that i have spoken before parliament in the year 2008. we are all sure that 2008 is going to be very exciting, to say the least. i want to continue with a deeper cooperation with parliament, with yourself and with the distinguished members of this chamber. today we have a very important debate – a debate on an issue that is one of the most important issues on the agenda of the international community. i would like to make a short statement about it and spend the time necessary to see whether we can together understand – and not only understand but make some progress on the solution of – this very complicated issue that is at the top of the international agenda today. let me start by making a few remarks. iran is a key country in the middle east. it is important in strategic terms, and is also important as a regional actor. we would like, therefore, to have a constructive relationship with iran; but, as you know, there are many difficulties with this. iran is a very vibrant society, full of talented people. it has an exceptionally high proportion of women graduates. persian is one of the major languages on the internet, especially for blogs, as young people seek a means of self-expression. the political scene in iran – as you well know – is of great interest these days. there are elements of democracy there which are not present in other countries of the middle east, though the election process still leaves much to be desired. for the majles elections in march, to give you an example, 30% of candidates were disqualified, with those having reformist tendencies suffering the most. some will have the opportunity to appeal but others will not. nevertheless, an imperfect democracy is better than none, and it is right that we should engage with iranian parliamentarians. i am very grateful to the european parliament for sending a delegation there to meet with their colleagues in the iranian parliament. members of this parliament are also right to be concerned about the rule of law and human rights in iran. iran is almost at the bottom of the world press freedom index. it has increased the number of executions. there are, unfortunately, numerous reports of torture. such things are unacceptable and only damage iran’s image as a civilised country. all those who campaign for human rights in iran, for example in the one-million-signature campaign for women’s rights, deserve our support and admiration. this morning i had the happy opportunity to comment on that with mrs souhayr belhassen, who is, as you know, one of the most important figures in the international federation of human rights. with greater freedom, greater accountability and more even-handed justice, iran could be one of the most creative and most dynamic societies in the middle east. the european union had, in the past, a human rights dialogue with iran, but since 2004 the iranians have been unwilling to participate. however, we have many areas of common interest with iran that are not yet fully exploited, the most obvious of these in the energy sector – but there is also more that we could do together on drug trafficking and against terrorism. it would be good if we were able to work better with iran in the region. but for the moment, as you know, this is difficult because it is difficult to see iran as a constructive partner. in almost every area we seem to find ourselves pursuing different, sometimes contradictory, policies. we want a two-state solution in palestine. we want the annapolis conference to succeed. iran is still the only country in the middle east that does not accept the idea of a two-state solution. it is a key supplier of arms to hamas. president ahmadinejad’s remarks concerning israel and his support for holocaust denial are entirely unacceptable for all of us. iran, as you know, is a destabilising factor in lebanon. it is the most important supplier of weapons to hezbollah. it has also worked with groups pursuing violence in iraq. all these activities make iran, from our point of view, a troublesome and difficult actor in the middle east. but it remains one that we need to understand and engage with better. there have been periods of cooperation with iran, for example in afghanistan, that have been fruitful, and i believe we should continue to seek such opportunities. but, as you know, one of the most important subjects of concern is the iranian nuclear programme. were iran to develop a weapon, this could be a cause of radical instability and danger in the middle east. it would also be very damaging to the whole non-proliferation system. even the suspicion that iran is pursuing a nuclear weapon can destabilise the middle east. our objective is to remove those suspicions. in the end this can be done only through a negotiated solution. we welcome the fact that iran is working with the international atomic energy agency to deal with some of the so-called ‘outstanding issues’. in the current phase with dr elbaradei, as you know, iran has to answer questions about important issues like weaponisation, and especially other issues related to contamination, which are very important. but even if these questions about the past are answered, this does not provide the transparency we are asking for concerning iran’s present activities or its future intentions. present transparency requires iran to ratify and implement, as we have said many times, the additional protocol. confidence about iran’s future intentions is more difficult. supposing iran had a weaponisation programme in the past, how can we be sure today that the present enrichment activity is exclusively civil? it is especially difficult when we see no signs, at this moment, of iran signing a contract to build a nuclear power plant apart from what they have done with the russians in bushehr, for which the russians have supplied the fuel. all we hear about is enrichment. when i ask – and you asked the other day – representatives of the iranian government what they plan to do with enriched uranium, i never get an answer. you had the proof of that a few days ago. the fact is that iran can develop a civil programme only with the assistance of the countries belonging to the group of six countries which are negotiating with them – or trying to negotiate with them – with the exception of japan. no other country in the world can supply a country that wants to deploy or to develop a civil nuclear programme without the cooperation of countries, or companies that belong to those countries, that are in the group of six countries plus japan. none of us have a problem with an iranian civil programme; indeed, we are offering to help. but none of us will do so unless we are certain that iran’s intentions are exclusively peaceful. this is why we are trying continually to achieve a negotiated solution. so far, unfortunately – as you know – we have not been successful. also, unfortunately, it is impossible to do nothing while iran continues to ignore the agency resolutions or security council resolutions. work is, therefore, going on in new york on a further resolution. the objective of these resolutions is not to punish iran but to persuade it to come to the negotiating table: as far as i am concerned, the sooner the better. the european union and the permanent members of the security council are fully united in this. we had an important meeting last thursday. perhaps i could add one further comment that goes beyond iran itself on this matter. in a world where there is an increasing interest in nuclear power, we need to find ways of assuring countries that they can obtain nuclear fuel without having to do their own enrichment – which is expensive for them and gives rise to proliferation concerns. i myself strongly support the idea of the creation of international fuel supply assurances, perhaps in the form of a fuel bank. this idea has been played around with by many of our partners and many important figures in the international community. there are many good ideas in this area. i believe the time has come to turn these ideas into action, into reality. as i said at the beginning, iran is a key country. i have been engaged for years now in normalising relations between us. we will all gain from this – iranians and europeans. i believe in this, and i will continue relentlessly to work towards this objective, which i think will benefit the people of iran and the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, in the current climate i think it is inevitable that discussions about iran focus on the nuclear programme. the international community is united in the search for a satisfactory solution. that means working through the appropriate channels with the iaea and the united nations security council. it also means supporting the persistent efforts by high representative javier solana on behalf of the three plus three, with the full backing of the european union, because international unity remains central, and it was shown at the last meeting in berlin. when i received dr saeed jalili, the iranian chief negotiator, last week, i reminded him of our principled position. nobody has ever denied iran’s right to the use of peaceful nuclear energy, but there was a serious need to rebuild trust and show genuine political will to find a solution. unfortunately, whereas the european union was making its best efforts, i could not see such political will yet on the iranian side. until we see such political will, there will unfortunately be no possibility of our enhancing our relationship, including launching or relaunching the trade and cooperation agreement talks and talks on energy. this is what i explicitly told dr jalili at our meeting. i am confident that parliament shares the same views and that it continues to firmly back high representative solana and the three plus three to achieve a sustainable solution – and a diplomatic solution which, whilst preserving iran’s inalienable right to develop nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, also provides objective guarantees on these activities being exclusively peaceful in nature. although the development of the eu’s relationship with iran is conditioned to a large degree by progress on that issue, in the commission’s view more than one track should be pursued with iran. in this respect, i wish to express my appreciation for the work undertaken by the delegation for relations with iran under the dynamic chairwomanship of ms angelika beer. ms beer, i particularly wish to commend the mission which you led last month to tehran. ep contacts, for instance with the iranian majlis, are an important channel of communication between the european union and the islamic republic of iran. your meetings with high-level officials such as the foreign minister, mr mottaki, as well as with a wide spectrum of iranian society, are and were very precious. meetings with women activists, families of imprisoned students, trade unionists and minority groups constitute an important testimony to the importance the european union attaches to a fully free, democratic and pluralistic iran in accordance with the international conventions to which the islamic republic of iran has freely adhered. people-to-people contacts constitute an excellent means to overcome prejudice and negative stereotypes and to foster mutual understanding. it is, for instance, very important to support the further development of academic, cultural and artistic exchanges between europe and iran: two ancient beacons of civilisation which have a lot to offer each other. this is why i am particularly glad to report the successful launch this academic year of an erasmus mundus external cooperation window, linking up europeans with students and professors from iraq, yemen and iran. from teheran to shiraz, to mashhad to alzahra, the web of iranian universities participating in this consortium looks particularly promising. the first academic batch has already allowed over 50 iranian students and professors to study in europe. i strongly hope that this set-up will work both ways and european students and professors will also go to iran.beyond that, we are pursuing our cooperation with iran in a series of sectors such as the support to afghan refugees or the fight against narcotics. in this respect i would like to draw your attention to a recently launched call for proposals for grants to non-state actors and local authorities in iran. the programme – by the way a first with iran – aims at promoting and strengthening an inclusive and empowered society. it includes educational activities and development activities with a focus on actions against poverty. finally, the programme supports cooperation between civil society and local authorities and activities to strengthen their capacity. this call is now open and runs until 11 february. on another note, i welcome the decision taken by parliament in plenary on 13 december last year to allocate a eur 3 million envelope for a television news service in farsi. promoting the production and broadcasting of information with a strong european angle can play an important role in fostering better mutual understanding with the iranian public. i wish to conclude on an important note: the issue of democracy and human rights. in front of this parliament last week, dr jalili insisted on the importance of human dignity. i, of course, can only concur with him, but unfortunately when i met him myself, i could only tell him about my deep concern about the deterioration of human rights and the human rights situation in iran. last year iran carried out at least 297 executions, according to an afp account compiled from press reports. the total was a sharp increase from 2006 when 177 executions were carried out, according to amnesty international. i do not speak of other very cruel methods of killing people. so i had to express my hope that the eu-iran dialogue on human rights could resume. i also expressed the hope that there would be a wider spectrum of candidates than in the past for the forthcoming parliamentary elections. the european union remains strongly mobilised on this front. the latest statement on the death sentences in iran issued on 25 january is just another case in point. we are fully in line with parliament in saying that, without a systematic improvement of the human rights situation in iran, our relations with iran cannot develop properly.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not we are dealing in our resolution with the human rights situation and the nuclear conflict with iran. the house has been very clear on the subject of human rights for many years. the high representative has already referred to executions and torture today. on this occasion, i would like to mention the names of ahwasi political activists who have been sentenced to death, with the demand that the sentences not be carried out. the two kurdish journalists are zamal bawi, faleh al-mansouri, said saki and rasoul mazrea, and two kurdish journalists, abdolwahed 'hiwa' butimar and adnan hassanpour. may this european public protect them! as regards the nuclear conflict, mr jalili, the iranian chief negotiator, did not provide any clarity to the foreign affairs committee last week on the real intentions of iran. questions from 24 colleagues were answered en bloc and only very cursorily. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the best way of responding to these non-responses is therefore to unite the international community, and that is why our resolution also welcomes the agreement reached in berlin on 22 january on a draft for a new un security council resolution. russia and china are on board. this is the important signal to iran. this resolution provides for further action as a common approach of the international community. i think it is right that we should seek dialogue wherever possible, but also that we should make clear in this context what we stand for: on the one hand, human rights, but also cooperation, but only when confidence in our community has been restored.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking both javier solana and mrs ferrero-waldner for the good preparation, the exchange and the dialogue before the trip, but also in the period afterwards! i also want to point out - and we should be clear - that this debate is being heard in iran. it is an awakened, pluralistic society that is trying to get its information, and that is the path we support with the farsi channel. we know that the ahmadinejad leaders are also following this debate, and therefore it is right to say clearly to ahmadinejad and all his supporters here once again: we know that the large number of candidates for the 296 parliamentary seats - there are over 7,000, and 2,000 of them are to be excluded - shows that ahmadinejad is politically backed up against the wall. our solidarity is with civil society, women, trade unionists and all those who are threatened and whose names have just been read. (applause from the centre) there is a second point for which we have called for this debate today, and for which i would like to thank you very much. there's a dead end. iran has hit its head against the wall and does not know how to move forward, is no longer able to make offers. but i also ask: have we europeans really used all the possibilities? the result of our journey across party lines and factions is that we must find our own way of negotiating, and that can only be done without preconditions, and not by putting a gun to the other side's chest. one thing i understood very clearly from all the people we were able to meet and who need our support: sanctions weaken civil society and strengthen ahmadinejad. that is why 'just keep it up' is not a political solution but a dead end. i would therefore like to make one final point: we do not want nuclear weapons anywhere! i said i don't want nuclear power. but if it becomes sarkozy's policy to conclude only nuclear energy agreements worldwide without any safeguards, such as npt agreements, then european foreign policy becomes a proliferation risk and does not contribute to containment. (applause from the centre)
thank you, mrs. beer, and good luck with your obviously broken arm.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not according to the us intelligence, there is a new situation. we must now have a moratorium on the nuclear question. we need to get this case back to the international atomic energy agency and away from the un security council. there is a very vibrant civil society in iran, despite all the repression, for example against trade unionists. the rejection of candidates for the european parliament elections is intolerable. i am clearly against any tightening of sanctions. this is counterproductive, especially for the democratic opposition. there are still threats of war against iran, especially the united states. my group is quite clearly against any threat of war and against any planning of war. mr. solana, your employee robert cooper is quoted in the british guardian as saying the following about the new nato nuclear weapons document: perhaps we will use nuclear weapons before anyone else. but i'd be careful not to say that out loud. mr solana, does this statement relate to iran, and when will you distance yourself from this statement? once again, no war and no escalation against iran, but negotiations!
i welcome to the gallery a delegation from the european committee of the polish parliament, led by its chairman, mr andrzej grzyb. the delegation is on a three-day study visit to the european parliament. i had the pleasure of meeting her yesterday. welcome to the club. (applause from the centre)
the following is a continuation of the statements by the high representative for the common foreign and security policy and the commission on the situation in iran.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as we have just heard, there are representatives in the european parliament who do not give priority to changing the behaviour of the iranian regime, but to destroying it. i think one thing must be made very clear, and that is the compelling political logic: those who want the regime destroyed and who direct their policies towards it will not get a change in the regime's behaviour. and that is what we must aim at when we talk about the nuclear question. the diplomatic side would be greatly strengthened if the united states were to participate directly in the talks, because it can offer something that the european union cannot offer on this scale, namely security guarantees. mr solana pointed out that the findings of the american intelligence services do not justify the conclusion that there is no potential threat from the iranian programme. in fact, there is a problem. and you can't solve this problem by taking away the pressure. we cannot take this issue away from the security council, because at some point the iranian regime could say: thank you for that, we have enough highly enriched uranium, we are now withdrawing from the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and producing our own nuclear weapons. if that happens, we will have no choice but to return to the nuclear deterrence strategy of the 1960s and 1970s. what we should exclude from this debate - and this must be equally clear - is the so-called military option. whatever is meant by the term 'the west', whether it is only north america or europe, the pursuit of the so-called military option would be a political disaster for decades, not only in the muslim world but also for states like india, which helped bring this issue to the un security council.
member of the commission. − mr president, this was, of course, a very important discussion. why? because there is a huge civil society in iran that certainly would like to have a different way of life, but there is still a very difficult regime. i think we all know that the nuclear issue is the huge stumbling block at this moment. it spoils all the possibilities for development and also for a bilateral relationship, which would have very great potential. this is what i said repeatedly to mr jalili: ‘why do you not take this? why is there no possibility of entering into a dialogue with you? why do you not show some political will on this?’ i think this is what we have to do – try to appeal to the population as well, to see if there is perhaps a chance to change things at the next elections – knowing that it will be very difficult. but i think it is interesting to see that the opposition is, at least, coming together again. it has been split. it has been in a resigned mood. now there is, at least, a new will to go for elections and perhaps change the situation, at least of the government. but of course, as i said before, the screening of the candidates by the council of guardians is now under way and is crucial. as ms beer said, if 7 000 candidates can run for 290 seats, too many candidates have already been rejected. two thousand of them will have been rejected. therefore i strongly hope that an appeals procedure will indeed redress the situation. the iranian electorate deserves to be able to choose its representatives from amongst a wide spectrum of parties and opinions. of course it is clear that we are not supporting any specific party, but it is important that there is the establishment of a genuine pluralism. having said this, i completely agree with all those – and i did not go into all the details – who said that we have to do a lot on the human rights front, even if we cannot go forward with regard to the nuclear issue. we have, of course, supported all the un resolutions; canada has introduced such a resolution. this has been adopted, clearly showing where iran – unfortunately – stands today. i would like to say, to some of the members of parliament who have mentioned that we should use the eidhr instrument, that we are already using it via implementation through the un, unicef and unodc: for instance in the areas of juvenile justice and young people addicted to drugs, and on the question of justice. but it becomes more and more complicated in this very rigid atmosphere. i have been trying to have one diplomat in one embassy in tehran, to ensure a smoother coordination of joint projects. this is, of course, only a small step, but hopefully a meaningful one, which could pave the way, at least a little, for the development of our cooperation. unfortunately, however, iran remains evasive. last week, when i personally mentioned this, i did not receive an answer.
high representative for the common foreign and security policy. − mr president, very briefly as i had the opportunity to answer earlier. there are not many new questions and, as i have already said, we basically share the views expressed. concerning a question put by mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, a debate is now taking place in the security council, so i do not think i should be elaborating on that. you asked me what i would like to see. i would like to see a resolution which is not needed because the dialogue that we are asking for is a reality. you know which elements have to be put in place in order to have a meaningful dialogue. concerning other reflections about enlarging cooperation, there are many other fields in which we can and should cooperate. afghanistan and drugs have been mentioned. this is an important issue on which we would very much like to cooperate. other questions have been put about the group of six in the united nations. i cannot speak on behalf of anybody. i can speak only on behalf of the six with which i am negotiating. i have received support from everybody, from all the members of the group, including the european union – there is no doubt about that – but also the other members of the security council who are not members of the european union. la question de madame béguin sur l'énergie nucléaire. je ne veux pas entrer aujourd'hui dans le débat sur l'énergie nucléaire en général. nous aurons le temps pour cela quand nous parlerons de l'énergie. mais je vais vous dire la différence claire entre le nucléaire pour la production d'énergie électrique et le nucléaire pour autre chose, que vous avez bien séparés. la différence fondamentale, c'est que, pour la production d'énergie électrique, le nucléaire a besoin d'un enrichissement de x et que, pour la production d'armes de destruction, on a besoin d'un enrichissement qui va bien au-delà de cela. la deuxième question, ce sont les déchets. il est très important de savoir ce qu'on en fait. vous savez que, dedans, se trouvent du plutonium et d'autres choses, qui sont utilisables. les entreprises qui offrent la technologie sont aussi chargées de prendre tous les déchets. donc, la situation est tout à fait différente de la situation que nous envisageons quand nous parlons de l'iran et du processus d'enrichissement autonome. j'aimerais dire, mesdames et messieurs les membres du parlement, que j'ai fait, dans ma première intervention, une description de l'iran que j'aimerais voir: je pense que cet iran est possible, que cet iran est souhaitable et que cet iran est un pays dans lequel nous devons nous engager. c'est un pays vivant, un pays avec beaucoup de profondeur, intellectuelle, culturelle, etc., que nous aimerions voir s'engager avec nous pour travailler ensemble dans plusieurs dossiers: dossier de l'énergie, dossier des droits de l'homme, dossier du moyen-orient, dossier nucléaire … pour cela, il faut que nous commencions à avoir réellement un dialogue sérieux sur tous les dossiers ensemble. pour le reste, je voudrais vous remercier pour l'attention accordée à ce débat important et, je vous le dis, monsieur le président, je suis prêt à venir vous parler du dossier iranien, ou d'autres dossiers, quand vous m'inviterez.
thank you very much, mr. high representative. the debate was closed by the tabling of six motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 31 january.
the next item is the statements by the high representative for the common foreign and security policy and the commission on the situation in gaza.
the chairman of the council. − the establishment of a us missile shield and its deployment on the territory of the european union were not discussed by the council. therefore, i cannot give the council's position on this matter today. i'm sorry to hear that. however, i would like to recall that the decision on the possible deployment of military forces or military equipment is a matter for the national competence of each member state. and that is why member states decide on such matters independently. let me also clarify that there has been no discussion between the european union as such and the united states of america on the establishment of a missile shield. nor did the two parties envisage any cooperation in this area. the council of the european union has therefore not planned to address this issue, either in talks with the united states or with nato. as you know, missile defence is a matter of cooperation both within nato and within the nato-russian federation council.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will be very brief today, because the commission has very little competence in this matter. but let me say that interaction between the united states of america, russia and the eu member states in the areas of security and defence has wider implications for these important partnerships. that is clear. therefore, although, as i said, we really do not have competence or responsibility in this question, we hope that a balanced solution can be found that is, in the end, satisfactory for all. we have welcomed, from the very beginning, the high-level talks that started in moscow last october, followed by expert meetings. and we see in the recent direct dialogue between moscow and warsaw an opportunity to clarify respective positions in respect of national sovereignty. in conclusion, in whatever forum these issues are discussed, be it nato or be it the osce, i think it would be important that decisions on the future of the european security architecture should also involve the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. when we talk in europe about missile defence, the discussion usually revolves around the installations planned by the united states in poland and the czech republic. many people are unaware of the fact that this is merely an addition to an already existing system whose job it is to protect the united states of america. but for us in the european parliament, the first question to be asked is what this means for the security of the european continent. the united states has already spent over 100 billion dollars on its missile defence system, and every year it invests another 10 billion in the expansion of the system. the united states is far more distant from potential sources of danger than we are in europe. the current situation is something like luxembourg spending money on dike construction, while the netherlands does not think it is necessary. we must ask ourselves whether there is a threat and whether it is necessary to respond to it. the debate with javier solana, which we have just heard, shows that the situation in iran is still worrying. we also know what threat the unstable situation in pakistan could pose. we in the subcommittee on security and defence have had intensive discussions with representatives of the united states, including general obering, who is responsible for missile defence. it became clear that the american system would theoretically be able to protect part of europe, but not all of europe. in particular, cyprus, malta, parts of greece, romania, bulgaria and southern italy cannot be protected by this system. but from a european point of view, we must not allow our continent to be divided into different zones with different levels of security. we must therefore define our common european security interests in this context. we are aware that there is no forum at present for such a debate and for defining these common european security interests. it is clear that very intensive coordination with russia is also necessary here. we expect the nato summit in bucharest in april to put forward proposals for a common system and we expect that our specific european security interests will be taken into account in an appropriate way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. one of the greatest anti-war novels is about brave soldiers schwejk by jaroslav hašek! the council and the commission's position, however, is better than schweik's, better than franz kafka's, better than the ostrich's. we cannot have this bird-and-straw policy! we must discuss this on the floor of the european parliament, among ourselves, but of course also with the nato countries. we have to discuss this with the czechs, the poles and the russians. this is a process which is necessary throughout europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the missile system proposed is designed to prevent the second strike capability, that is technically clear. that means it's also an attack system. that should be taken into account in the debate. whether the missile system is built by the usa or by nato together with the usa or in any other way, it remains a rearmament programme! the point that is significant to me is that the european union has not found a common position on this. the european union's common foreign and security policy is completely ridiculous on this point! daniel cohn-bendit can quote the reform treaty as long as he's funny. as long as you act as you are doing now, that is, you don't take a position, you're just making a fool of yourself. what we need to do is make it clear that we don't want this missile system. the european parliament has a clear majority against this missile system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore like to see a resolution adopted here that clearly says no to this missile system.
the chairman of the council. - i would like to thank the honourable member, mr cohn-bendit, for recalling the fact that slovenia ratified the new lisbon treaty yesterday, as the second member state. but that's not the case yet. as is well known, we need 24 more ratifications and the slovenian presidency hopes that these ratifications will be completed in time and that the new treaty of lisbon will enter into force within the timeframe we have set. but this, and i would like to stress this, will not bring about any substantial change or innovation in the fundamental assumptions on which european security and defence policy is based. in particular, the fact that this policy is based on national competences which member states retain in the field of national security and defence. the european union already has a european security and defence policy, and this already provides the framework for such discussions in the council or whether such discussions will take place in the council depends not so much on the presidency but on the will and the interests of the member states. i would like to assure the council that it will be kept fully informed of today's debate and the views expressed therein.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are at the end of a long debate which we have had here in the european parliament over four legislative periods, starting in 1992 with the publication of a european commission white paper on the development of postal services, with the adoption of a first directive in 1997, with the further development of that directive in 2002, and now, at the beginning of 2008, after more than fifteen years, we have hopefully managed to adopt a sensible regulation which will help us to combine the interests of consumers, the interests of the companies which were previously monopolistic postal service providers, the interests of competitors who want to enter this interesting market, the interests of workers in this sector, that we can combine all of this together. we have worked very hard here in the european parliament in recent months. madam president, i can only point out that the clock is wrong, i have not spoken for three and a half minutes. i think we have succeeded here in the european parliament in finding a good compromise between all these interests. i should like to thank all those who have helped to achieve this compromise, including, of course, my colleagues in the european parliament, and in particular brian simpson, with whom i have a 14-year friendship in the postal services. we have been following this important issue together since 1994. i should like to thank the commission for its very constructive role, both in its proposals and in the actual negotiations. i am sorry to say that i have to thank, not the slovenian presidency of the council, but the portuguese presidency in particular, which succeeded in formulating a common position on 1 october last year. what i am proud of, what we can be proud of together as the european parliament, is the fact that in its common position the council has taken over what we have worked out as a parliament between the political groups and has used more than 95% of it as the basis of the common position. this is a great success for the european parliament and shows that it can responsibly solve such difficult issues as the opening of postal markets, which justifies the fact that it is given further powers by the reform treaty. that is why we have identified in the second reading committee whether there are still areas in the common position where we can make improvements. we have not made this easy for ourselves, because of course every compromise has points where, at some point or another, we could perhaps do something better. but we found in a large unanimous vote in the transport committee in december that virtually all the points we had stressed as parliament had been taken into account by the council and that we could not do better. we can only make things worse. i am therefore able to say today as rapporteur that the committee's recommendation is, by a large majority, to adopt the common position unchanged, and i would be glad if we could do so tomorrow. we would also have set an example by having reached this difficult issue of the liberalization of postal services, which has been moving us in this house for fifteen years now, without a single conciliation procedure. i would just like to remind you that we have always managed to reach an agreement at second reading. this would be the culmination of a long legislative process. i would like to thank all those who have worked constructively with us and ask for your support.
i have to say, madam president, it is obvious that there are very wide differences between the positions of mr ferber and those of mrs wortmann-kool and other members. i think it is wrong to think of privatisation, liberalisation of public services as the appropriate response to globalisation. i also expect that more and more people will be looking at this question differently. in a decision taken in leipzig over the weekend, 80 per cent of those entitled to vote opposed privatisation, thus ensuring that the city could not undertake any further privatisations for the next three years. i would also say that it is not true that the directive we are discussing today actually contains safeguard clauses to protect people - workers - from social dumping. it has been shown that the resistance to the introduction of minimum wages in the postal services sector in germany came precisely from those companies which had denied dumping wages and built their business on them. i also think it is problematic if public bodies also pass on their contracts to such companies.
the chairman of the council. - today's lively debate has shown and proved that there are many different views on the regulation of this oldest and classic public service, and rightly so. it is also right that there are different views and concerns. however, it must be stressed that the proposed text is a balanced compromise between, on the one hand, the opening up of the internal market for postal services, ensuring competition, the added value of competition, and, on the other, the protection of consumers, their rights and also the protection of the rights of vulnerable groups of consumers, including those living in more remote areas. in short, the council has found this to be a good compromise text and i would like to express my support for these positions. we also understand some of the amendments, but the discussion in the preliminary discussions has shown that there are also final compromise solutions. we therefore think that this text is a good one, and i certainly wish you a lot of wisdom, political wisdom, in supporting this text in the end.
member of the commission. − first of all, i would like to thank all the participants in this debate and to underline that this debate has shown the particular interest that members of the european parliament are taking in this dossier. this interest is closely linked to the crucial role that postal services play in the european economy and in the daily lives of the citizens of the european union. i would like to stress that the completion of this long process will ensure that the high quality of the universal service will be maintained for all union citizens and for the business environment. the main objective of the postal reform is to provide benefits for all users of postal services and consumers, including groups with special needs. in this context, i listened very carefully to the speeches of various members of the european parliament on the continuation of the provision of free services for blind and partially sighted people. the european commission has a special sympathy for these concerns. we are convinced that the opening of the market will not change this and that international obligations will continue to be fully respected. i would like to stress that the common position also specifically states that the opening up of the market will not prevent the free provision of services to blind and partially sighted people. the european commission is obliged, in accordance with article 23 of the directive, to draw up a report on the application of this directive, including to provide information on the groups you mentioned above. the directive as it stands, to which the european parliament has made a very important contribution, is, in the view of the european commission, the best legislative framework which, while respecting our international obligations, will lead to a high quality and sustainable postal service in europe. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the report as drafted by mr markus ferber and adopted by the committee on transport by a very large majority should be supported.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. just a few remarks. firstly, i would be glad if the colleagues who are making great speeches and explaining the world here would at least stay until the end of the debate. i'm a little disappointed in you. i am referring specifically to mrs lichtenberger. secondly, i would point out that we are talking about liberalization, not privatization. the question of the legal organisation of property is not of interest to the european union and is not addressed in this directive. thirdly, i would like to point out the following: when the postal service was first established 500 years ago, it was private companies that provided the postal service. and then the state said it could do better. so, please, let's not twist history here. fourthly, i would point out that there is also the abuse of state monopolies. i am glad that mrs zimmer has drawn attention to this problem. it is a region where, until 1990, the state had abused its postal monopoly against innocent people. i think that should be made clear here. let me be very clear: we have not forgotten the blind in the legislation! they are in, but they are in in the spirit of this directive. we say as the european union: dear member states, you are responsible for the universal service, you are responsible for the financing of the universal service obligations and you are also responsible for the licensing and authorization procedures to ensure that certain services, such as the blind post, can also be maintained permanently. i am very grateful to the commissioner for announcing that the commission will also take this issue into account in the report under article 23 of this directive. we have not forgotten anything. we have not forgotten the blind. but i am wondering why the blind should have free access, guaranteed by the european union, and the wheelchair users not. that is another thing to consider.
the chairman of the council. - i am honoured to be with you again today and to present to the council, as president, an assessment of the outcome of the bali climate change conference. i am very pleased that the european parliament has been very active and involved in the debate on climate change. a strong european parliament delegation, led by mr vidal-quadras, vice-president of the parliament, and including eminent representatives of the european parliament, was also present at the bali conference. i would also like to express my support for the first interim report on climate change presented to your committee on climate change on monday. as the honourable members are well aware, the conference, particularly in the last few days, has been held in a very, one might say, electric atmosphere, an atmosphere of uncertainty. when it was already apparent that the negotiations were about to fail and that no agreement would be reached, the united nations secretary-general ban ki-moon intervened in the proceedings and his intervention was also significant. the difficulty of the negotiations is also shown by the fact that they were extended by one day and that they lasted the whole of the last two nights. the final agreement concluded a long-term cooperation under the convention, known as the bali action plan. on this basis, negotiations will begin in march or april this year, with the aim of reaching a global and comprehensive agreement on tackling climate change beyond 2012 by the end of next year. let me mention some of the essential elements of this agreement. first, the part relating to international mitigation or reduction measures. it stresses that the efforts of all developed countries to reduce emissions must be comparable. this means that the united states will be included in the reduction of emissions. however, it should be stressed that the plan does not yet provide for quantified commitments as provided for in the kyoto protocol for the period 2008-2012. second, developing countries should contribute to reducing emissions in the context of sustainable development. here, the assistance of developed countries through technology transfer and appropriate financing is very important. the mitigation will also include measures and positive incentives to prevent deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries, which contribute a significant share of global greenhouse gas emissions. the third element is enhanced adaptation measures, which will also include international cooperation. fourth, it includes enhanced measures for the development and transfer of technologies to allow for adaptation and mitigation in parallel with economic development. in order to mitigate and adapt to climate change more effectively, it is therefore essential to ensure that developing countries have easier access to environmentally friendly technologies. and then the fifth movement. this concerns increased financing and investment for climate change mitigation. in this context, incentives are provided to developing countries to implement national mitigation and adaptation measures. further negotiations will take place under the auspices of the newly established ad hoc working group on long-term cooperation under the convention. she's meeting four times already this year. the negotiation process will be intensive, requiring a great deal of effort from the negotiators over the next three years. negotiations on the post-2012 commitments of the developed country parties to the kyoto protocol, which have already begun, will also continue. this too is due to expire at the end of next year. they will run in parallel with the negotiations under the bali action plan. we assess that the conclusions reached at the bali conference are appropriate. they contain the essential elements that we in the european union stand for. we consider the greatest achievement to be the inclusion of all countries, developed and developing, in the collective reduction of emissions. we also welcome the fact that adaptation is equally included. we expect the bali action plan to move the transfer of climate-friendly technologies to developing countries from a deadlock. ladies and gentlemen, the conference provided a broad framework for further negotiations. this compromise represents, in a sense, the maximum that could be achieved given the current level of global consensus. the negotiations ahead will be very difficult, both technically and politically. we believe that the end result will be successful if we can maintain the trend that has been present over the last year, with climate change increasingly high on the political agenda. the achievement of an effective international agreement will require perseverance and patience, as well as a great deal of political will, since the most urgent measures are sometimes the ones that take the longest to be implemented.
member of the commission. - the madam president, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking you for this opportunity to discuss the outcome of the climate change conference held in bali at the end of last year and what is to follow after an agreement has been reached to open negotiations. first of all, i would like to express my appreciation for the active role played and the support given by the european parliament both before and during the conference. the contacts and meetings we had with your delegation throughout the conference proved extremely useful. i would like to stress in particular the very important role of the european parliament in informing decision-makers from other countries. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction. this has been particularly useful in bali and will prove even more useful in the next two years. now, to come to the results of bali, i would like to start by saying that bali is an undeniable success, as it has agreed to start negotiations with all the major countries to conclude an agreement on climate change for the period after 2012. an agreement to be finalised in 2009 and covering all the key elements that the european union has been working hard to achieve. in other words, it gives us the basis - and the impetus we urgently need - to start negotiations with a view to an agreement on climate change that is at our level of ambition, that is, an agreement that leads to drastic reductions in global emissions, initially by 2020 and even greater reductions thereafter. so, overall, this result is satisfactory to us and is fully consistent with the goals we had all set for bali. the fact that the united states participated in the discussions in bali is a clear indication that it now intends to play an active role in the negotiations. on the other hand, it is equally important that the decisions taken in bali stress for the first time the need for active action by the developing countries. the leading and mediating role played by the european union, combined with the insightful and constructive role of certain developing countries such as brazil or south africa, was crucial in ensuring this outcome. now our goal is to reach agreement on a future framework for climate change at the copenhagen conference of the parties in 2009. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let's not hide, the road to copenhagen will be long and difficult. first of all something of useful importance: the european union must continue to play a leading role, as it did successfully in the preparation of the bali conference, opening its cards before the conference, showing the way forward and convincing its views before this important meeting. the european union had a significant influence on its positive outcome. this is an important lesson in the run-up to copenhagen. the commission's proposals on the climate and renewable energy package, adopted last week, do just that and demonstrate that the european union is determined to move forward. i count on your support and your determination in the legislative process that is beginning to be established so that the package of measures can be adopted before the end of this parliamentary term and well before copenhagen. it is vital for the next two years to maintain this high political importance of the issue, which proved extremely useful in 2007. we will need to take every opportunity to ensure that the attention given to this issue, both in the european union and, more importantly, internationally, does not fade. an agreement before the end of 2009 will obviously require us to work more closely and even more strategically with our key partners. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this means that we must use all available international channels, including the g8 meetings, the meetings of the major economies and the bilateral dialogues, to secure and strengthen their consensus and to steer them decisively in this direction. we all know that some of our partners will not be easily convinced. there is still a great deal of reluctance in the united states. on the other hand, we also know that there are developments at the moment at the level of the states, in business circles and in general in the way public opinion is perceiving the issue. climate change is now a central issue in the political debate, as we can see in the ongoing presidential election campaign. climate and energy will be among the priority issues on the agenda of this year's g8 meeting under the japanese presidency. this should not only help to make the policy of the european union more visible, but also provide valuable opportunities for exchanges of views with our partners in the industrialized countries. at the moment, there is a lively debate in japan about climate change. let us take this opportunity to reach out to them and make a convincing case that being ambitious is not incompatible with economic growth and competitiveness. one observation in relation to these parallel processes is that it is clear that the un will remain the main negotiating stage for an agreement on climate change after 2012 and it is where the final agreement should be reached. more specifically, given the limited resources and means at our disposal, and the very short time remaining, we must ensure that all these international steps and processes are used strategically to support and complement the un process, and not to undermine it in any way. we simply cannot afford to have overlapping efforts and waste time at a time when the united nations process is already under way. we also need to work more closely with our partners from the developing countries to formulate concrete ideas about their participation and contribution to a future agreement. as was made even clearer in bali, the issue of development will be at the heart of the negotiations, and in this respect we are facing the main challenge of confidence building. the developing countries, at least the more advanced ones, are willing to take action. if, and only if, developed countries meet their existing and new commitments both in terms of emission reductions and in terms of the means available to developing countries, whether in terms of access to technology or financing in general. with this in mind, we will need to work closely with emerging economies to find the right mix of instruments and incentives to ensure sufficiently ambitious contributions from these economies, which will further lead to even more serious efforts by them after 2020. the commission will continue to support the efforts of the european union to develop a common foreign and security policy. finally, i would like to say that the climate and energy package shows our determination to move from words to deeds, while demonstrating that this can be done in a fair and cost-effective way, which will provide opportunities for everyone to benefit. i believe that this is the best way to have a positive impact on our partners.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. you had an excellent team in bali. you have worked to the point of exhaustion, and i would ask you to extend this gratitude to your staff. i believe - as a european patriot - that the real success of bali was that the european union took very decisive decisions in march last year, namely three 20% reductions, and on this basis life on this continent will unfold in the coming years. i do not want to go into the individual successes of bali now, because my colleagues will certainly do so in the future. i am glad that we have succeeded - in addition to the progress made with the americans - in making it possible for the 38 countries that signed kyoto, the other g77 countries to commit themselves to do something now and not always to say: 'if one of us does nothing, the other does nothing'. this cat-and-mouse game is over! it was only possible with the help of the americans. let me say a few words, mr commissioner and mr president-in-office, about the things that will happen to us in this debate. in bali, we learned that we're not getting anywhere if we're always talking about co2. i think we need to create a lot more awareness for a sustainable debate, and it has shown that we have more than just a climate crisis, but also a resource crisis, but that can also be turned around in a positive way. i think we need to put sustainability in our vocabulary more than we have in the past to raise awareness. but, mr president-in-office, i shall be with you shortly. we are already seeing that our member states are beginning to shake off the 20 - 20 - 20 targets and are moving heaven and earth to avoid having to achieve them. i think that you have a very special challenge to meet together with us in order to achieve these objectives, because if we go on to potsdam and then to another northern country, we have to stand. i hope that the commission and parliament will be the guarantors of our progress on this issue.
i have to say, madam president, if we look at the bali conference, we have to say that it was the largest, most expensive and most elaborate climate conference ever, and it really only produced one result, which is that we continue to negotiate. something else didn't really come out. an honest survey of bali forces us to make the following analysis. first, the unfccc has convinced much of the global public of its climate scenarios, but not of the consequences to be drawn from them. the second is that while europe is pushing ahead on its own, there is little willingness internationally to commit to binding co2 reduction agreements. this is not just true of the united states, but also of japan, canada, australia and many other countries. a look at the four remaining serious us presidential candidates makes it pretty clear that there is almost no commitment to a un process on climate policy anywhere. we - and by that i mean the eu - should rethink our strategy. what happens if copenhagen fails in 2009? there are cost-effective alternatives to an international agreement: technology transfer, the protection of tropical forests through a reasonable incentive system, carbon capture and storage or the development of nuclear energy. in the end, the law of market scarcity will also drive the us and china to save energy and avoid co2. the new industrial revolution will come if the price of oil continues to rise. we don't need to force it by law.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. first of all, i would like to thank and congratulate my colleague, fiona hall. it is the right response to a very important and correct initiative of principle by the commission. i must commend commissioner piebalgs for putting himself at the forefront of those who are committed to energy efficiency. because energy efficiency is actually one of the greatest sources of energy independence. it is also a source of innovation, because if we do everything that we are calling for in the report, then we will also be at the forefront of innovation and the lisbon process on a global scale. however, i do notice the exaggerated criticism of lifestyle in some places. i would like to give an example from this report: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. outdoor heaters are mentioned here, or, in popular parlance, radiators, heat mushrooms. the climate hysteria is indeed totalitarian in some respects! we've just finished getting smokers out of the cafes. i think it's right, i think it's all right, i have no problem with it! many hosts have now done the clever thing of putting these fire mushrooms outside. a new culture has developed. people have developed social evenings, smoking outside, and now european politics, we few people here, are telling 490 million people what to do and not to do in their free time! we're trying to change the lifestyle again. i don't think the public will be buying this for a long time. it is right to set high climate targets, but to regulate lifestyles in detail everywhere - we really have to ask ourselves if we want to do that. or do we want to tell the christmas markets we know from germany and luxembourg, from belgium and austria, that they should no longer have outdoor heating? i would advise all of us not to lose sight of our fellow citizens and not to interfere where society is so sympathetic, namely in private life.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the european network for territorial cooperation is intended to implement and manage cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation activities. yes, the network is intended to improve the quality of our citizens' daily lives, to increase the competitiveness of our companies, to extend the reach of our research and education centres and, last but not least, to protect the environment. the support of the actions does not necessarily require a financial contribution from the eu. this instrument will enable regional and local authorities to set up a transnational association with its own legal personality, which is a major innovation in terms of the possibility of implementing territorial cooperation. the etc offers a unique opportunity to create synergies beyond institutional levels and to ensure better, coordinated investment and a consistent and efficient use of resources. on 5 july 2006, as we know, this instrument was created by a regulation of the european parliament and of the council. by 1 august 2007, all member states should have adopted additional laws, regulations and administrative provisions. the fact that only five or six member states have adopted national provisions to date is a cause for great concern. the victims are the potentially engaged participants who seek to collaborate across borders with good ideas and innovative projects. the question is therefore justified and we expect the council to provide urgent information on this matter.
the chairman of the council. - i am delighted to be here with you today and to take part in such an important debate. the implementation of justice and home affairs policies is of paramount importance to our citizens. with the development of our society and modern technologies, security has become one of the most important concerns of our citizens. i think that the council, the commission and parliament have the same objective in this respect: to ensure that the conditions for cooperation between the member states are such as to ensure an appropriate level of security for our citizens. two years ago we started to consider two legal acts that would allow us to make a major qualitative leap in our cooperation. the first is the decision to establish europol as a european agency, and the second is the transposition of the prüm treaty into european law. the new legal basis will enable europol to respond more rapidly to changing trends in terrorism and organised crime and will further enhance its analytical capacity and capabilities to support member states, which will make a significant contribution to the more effective fight against organised crime and terrorist organisations operating in several eu countries. the transfer of the prüm agreement will allow for the faster implementation and exchange of data from national dna, fingerprint and registration plates databases. the two previous presidencies, the german and the portuguese, had done their utmost to ensure that both acts were adopted by the end of our three-way presidency. and according to the programme i presented to your colleagues on the libe committee a few days ago, we plan to reach political agreement on both acts by june this year. given the importance of those acts, it would not be justified to postpone their adoption. if we have, we have brought them into line with the member states and with all three institutions to the level we are at at the moment. as regards the acts still pending, the presidency is prepared to cooperate as closely as possible with parliament on a case-by-case basis, in the spirit of shared responsibility for the adoption of those acts. this means that the two institutions share responsibility for the security of eu citizens as well as for all other areas. the proposals for acts currently before the council are, on the one hand, of a general scope and are aimed at combating all forms of organised crime and terrorism. this concerns in particular the procedures for collecting and exchanging data, as well as cooperation within europol. on the other hand, we deal with acts that concern a specific problem or specific criminal activity. in addition to the proposal to transpose the prüm treaty and the europol decision, we are also currently building on measures to prevent the entry of undesirable persons into the territory of the european union. i am personally committed to accelerating the development of the second generation of the schengen information system, and we are preparing to adopt as soon as possible the acts that will enable the use of the visa information system. in the field of external relations, we are working intensively with the western balkan countries and russia to prepare regional assessments of the threat posed by organised crime. the council started this month with the first of two proposals for directives in the area of legal immigration. after the first meeting of the working groups on the proposal for a directive on highly qualified workers, the presidency felt that there was a broad consensus on the application of this directive. we expect to proceed in such a way that by the end of our presidency we can isolate the key political problems and hand over this area to the french presidency in such a way that we can then continue to work effectively. the proposal for a directive on the return of illegally staying third-country nationals has been under discussion by the parliament and the council for two years. the debate focuses on a number of specific issues on which the institutions differ considerably. the presidency will continue to make every effort to reach an agreement with parliament to enable the adoption of this directive as soon as possible, preferably at first reading, but we must be careful that this directive does not further worsen return procedures and thereby reduce the effectiveness of our policies to combat illegal migration. in deepening the dialogue with the country of origin and transit, the council will continue to advocate the continued implementation of global approaches to migration, with a focus on their inclusion and also geographically balanced. we will therefore concentrate our attention on north africa as well as on south-east europe.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome the president of the council and thank mr deprez for his introduction. it is clear that we are not just discussing an overview of the results of 2007, which i believe were positive in our sector: we have opened internal borders to over 400 million citizens of the european union with the enlargement of schengen. we have established and implemented the fundamental rights agency; we have reached a very important agreement with parliament on the visa information system. we have worked on immigration, as minister mate recalled, and on terrorism. just to give you a statistic, in 2007 the proposals that fall within my area of responsibility and that i presented to you were almost 20% of the entire system of strategic initiatives of the european commission, which means that this area has assumed and is assuming a really enormous importance. we have accomplished everything that was in the strategic plan. today, in 2008, we face an equally important challenge. as you know, the commission has identified 26 strategic proposals for 2008, of which eight, or almost 30%, concern the area of freedom, justice and security. we shall be dealing with the external borders this year: in february there will be a package of proposals to strengthen the security of the external borders, along the same lines and with the same criteria as we have done for the schengen information system and the visa system. we will make an overall assessment of frontex, which will allow us all to draw inspiration for the future as well. we will, i hope, make advanced and ambitious proposals in civil justice; we are discussing with the slovenian presidency what is called e-justice, that is how to improve citizens' access to civil and criminal justice through the use of the most modern technologies. we will certainly continue to deal with immigration. the initiatives of last year, which have gained general political support, will be discussed and developed during the year. this year there will be the action plan on asylum, asylum seekers and the european refugee treatment system; we shall have the two proposals together in july and november. we will propose a european strategy for the prevention of violent radicalisation, one of the key factors in a political strategy to combat terrorism, and this will happen in june. but i believe that the political issue raised by president deprez deserves a political response, which i shall gladly give. the year 2008 is a year of transition. it is a year of transition towards the lisbon treaty and its ratification, with a view to its entry into force which we all want in january 2009. it is clear that the three requirements, on the one hand, to work together with parliament to accompany this transition and, on the other, not to delay initiatives which are mature and have consensus, and at the same time not to anticipate what the treaty of lisbon will say and do when it comes into force, must be combined. so i think that we need an interinstitutional political agreement. it is clear that this can only be done if the council, the commission and parliament agree on the working method, even before the specific priorities. the consequence is that if there is political agreement on the method of work, we can define common priorities together and the priorities will be on initiatives which have immediate added value for the citizens, which have sufficient consensus and which achieve the balance we want between the interests at stake: the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a union of the people, a union of the people, a union of the people, a union of the people, a union of the people, a union of the people, a union of the people, a union of the people, a union of the people, a union of the people, a union of the people, a union of the people, a union of the people, a union of the people. i believe that the optimal working method is the one we have started to explore with the council: i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present a report on the situation in the european union, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this matter. i am therefore open to this, i am open to a political dialogue with the council and parliament to identify in the priorities for 2008 and 2009 those which we can offer as an immediate response to the citizens and those which merit further consideration. i believe that in this way we will demonstrate, without prejudging the treaty, that when the institutions work together, we can achieve faster and better political results. this is the path that i think we can all take together.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the debate today concerns european internal policy and i think it is right to do what our vice-president of the commission, mr frattini, has already done, which is to take a brief look back. 2007 was a big year for european domestic policy. the opening of the schengen area is a great success and we can also tell our citizens that it will not lead to less, but to more security if all the investigative authorities in europe have access to a database system. but we must look to the future. i read here that the informal council meeting in slovenia, under the slovenian presidency, discussed sis ii. as far as i know, the central system is now being put back on the back burner. the commission's parts seem to be ready, but now a new political group of home affairs ministers is being set up to deal with sis ii. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so why do we have to move it further? i'm worried that after the expansion, we'll fall into a big hole because everyone is satisfied that the expansion has worked. i would point out that we have introduced an evaluation of the systems in the ep after six months and will insist on it. the second specific area in which i would like to call for action is the question of police cooperation. you know that the prüm treaty unfortunately did not incorporate all the elements into community law, but that it did not incorporate essential aspects of police cooperation. that is why further steps are needed here. in the field of border control, we await the commission's proposals. i look forward to proposals on the entry and exit system, because it will be very interesting to know how many overstayers we have in europe. one last point: we get the new contract. i would therefore like to give our committee chairman, mr deprez, my support. we shall win the people's confidence in this treaty by taking the decisions which are being taken in the field of internal policy out of the back rooms of the council and into the light of this house. there, people will see how the decision is made. so please use the outstretched hand of parliament. we're ready to cooperate!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the council has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the european council's common position on the european union's security policy. but we can work as much as we want in europe on the common area of freedom, security and justice if the legal systems of third countries seem to prevent us from doing so. i believe that the commission, and above all the member states, should pay closer attention to the extent to which the legal system of the united states, for example, has an impact on the budgets of european citizens. the commission and the council will be faced with a question from me and some colleagues asking how it is possible that us postal transfer data, which are intended to be used only for customs purposes, are being passed on to security authorities. the secrecy of the mail is one of the last bastions we have been able to secure. i hope that the commission, in cooperation with the council, will tackle the problem of a global approach to combating terrorism and organised crime not only from the security side but also from the side of freedom, the protection of citizens and the resolution of problems in conflicting legal systems.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i have to say, mr. farage, first, you have the right to request a continuance of the case. no one is questioning that right. but we had a short discussion yesterday on the question of substance after a speech by mr hannan. i am very clear that the content of your statement, in which you speak of dictatorial measures, is inappropriate. if you accept the majority decision of this parliament, accept the majority decision of the committee on constitutional affairs! everything here is done by law and order, and you should be good democrats and accept that.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not we have discussed this question very intensely in our group. we believe that the accusations of authoritarianism are totally unjustified, particularly by the wording of the amendment requiring the president to consult the house again before taking a decision. quite the opposite! i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we therefore ask that the matter be taken up and voted on in accordance with your proposal.
i was a little hasty. a formal request had been made. the motion may be tabled by one member in favour and one against. we heard the opposing speaker. there's someone else who can speak for it. i assume that mr hannan is trying to support mr farage. that's why he's the only one who gets to speak now. there you go, mr. hannan.
mr hannan, i do not think we should make these comparisons our own.
i didn't feel that heat. maybe it had to do with an inner reality in you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the resolution adopted today is another, albeit still too hesitant, step towards a genuine roma integration strategy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this concrete example shows once again how inadequate the measures taken so far have been. there, as in many other european countries, the socio-political efforts are still lacking. a genuine integration of the roma into our society would be a good proof that the basic pillars of democracy, the rule of law and human rights remain the foundation of the european community.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 31 january 2008.
i am not going to go into detail. the parliament of kosovo yesterday proclaimed the independence of kosovo. this decision was expected and reflects the will of the citizens of kosovo to take peacefully into their own hands their political destiny and the institutional structure of independence. the european parliament, following the ahtisaari report, voted about a year ago in favour of sovereignty for kosovo under the supervision of the international community. the negotiations between belgrade and pristina were extremely difficult and unfortunately did not lead to a solution which was politically satisfactory to all parties involved. as so often in politics, there was no magic formula. the heavy burden of recent history has contributed to this. but the developments in kosovo are not unprecedented. the situation of kosovo as a un protectorate is unique and represents an incomparable special case. i would like to appeal to all concerned to exercise discretion and calm in this situation. i am convinced that all serbs and albanians in kosovo want above all to achieve stability and prosperity in their region. this is also the primary objective of the european union and of the european parliament. it is our task and obligation to encourage political leaders in kosovo to assume their responsibilities and to establish democratic political institutions that respect the rights and freedoms of all citizens within the framework of a multiethnic kosovo living in good neighbourly relations with its neighbours. i also welcome the council's decision to send the eulex mission to kosovo, headed by yves de kermabon. the mission will provide legal and police assistance to kosovo in order to ensure a smooth transition. i also welcome the appointment of pieter feith as the european union's special representative in kosovo. this shows the clear and unanimous commitment of the european union and the will to do something concrete for lasting stability in the electoral campaign. i am also confident in the wisdom and prudence of the decision which the general council will take at its meeting this afternoon. the countries of the western balkans have a european perspective. their accession will not be possible in the near future, but each of the countries has this prospect. in this respect, we should help the people of both serbia and kosovo to overcome their differences in the context of european integration, as has already been done in other parts of europe. the debate scheduled for wednesday is a first opportunity to do so.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 14 february 2008, pursuant to rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday/tuesday: no change. wednesday:the ind/dem group has asked that the vote on the report by mr corbett and mr méndez de vigo on the treaty of lisbon (a6-0013/2008) be postponed to a later part-session.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. early march will see presidential elections in russia. there's not much evidence of a good outcome. what happened in the lead-up? the opposition has been systematically obstructed and silenced, the freedom of the press has been severely restricted, and the electoral procedures have been curtailed. just one example: kremlin critic and russian opposition politician garry kasparov was arrested by police again last week on trumped-up charges. what will happen during the election? there will be no transparent election because russia has blocked the osce's election observation. and what will happen after the election? it is highly unlikely that the human rights situation will improve under putin's enthronement of dmitry medvedev. the eu must take the lead here. the russian people cannot be left to their own devices. (applause from the centre)
mr. chairman, i suggest you read my statement again. that might clear up some of the misunderstandings.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i am very pleased to be here today to speak on behalf of the commission on this key issue of transparency. i must thank mr pomés ruiz for this own-initiative report and the committee on budgetary control for its valuable contribution. the report addresses five main issues. first, the report gives guidance on the publication of information about those receiving eu funds through grants and contracts. we are working to implement the terms of the modified financial regulation on transparency. these terms were included through parliament’s efforts and came into force in may 2007. with regard to direct management, the commission launched a website last year, with a single portal giving access to all relevant sites in the various directorates-general. although we continue to update these sites, the portal still seems a rather confusing and complicated entry point. the commission services are working to improve this. regarding shared management, the role of the commission is to ‘finalise and agree with member states on the common standards of these sets of information before april 2008’. i am quoting here from the draft discharge report by mr jørgensen. the member states will remain responsible for the data. the commission assumes responsibility for the standards applicable and checking that member states respect the terms of the financial regulation. the second issue in mr pomés ruiz’s report is the issue of recoveries. i clearly said in the committee on budgetary control in january 2008 that ‘the commission has so far been unable to give parliament a comprehensive picture of all our recovery efforts’. i gave an estimate for the recoveries made in 2006 and announced improvements to our own systems, so that, this year, the abac accounting system will include more detailed and complete data on recoveries. we are discussing the methodology for doing so with the european court of auditors. information about recoveries would be incomplete without reliable input from the member states. for agriculture, the picture is encouraging. tomorrow, the commission will adopt an action plan to strengthen our supervisory role regarding the structural funds, addressing this issue among other things. the third issue in the report relates to the declaration of financial interests and, in particular, to the results of an independent comparative study launched in july 2006, in the context of the european transparency initiative, and published in 2007. the study concluded that most of the european institutions are regulated more intensively than institutions at national level. the commission and the european investment bank have the most comprehensive ethical rules of the eu institutions. while the study noted that the commission has a relatively well developed system for notification of conflicts of interests, it suggests that consideration be given to enlarging the mandate of our ad hoc ethical committee to include a broader advisory role. i invite you to examine the study and draw whatever conclusions you think are relevant for the european parliament. the fourth issue raised by mr pomés ruiz concerns the composition of experts groups advising the commission. i would like to thank mr pomés ruiz for recognising the value of the work done so far. we will study the recommendations you make for further improvements. the fifth and final main issue concerns governance within the institutions. last friday, 15 february 2008, was the deadline for member states to send in ‘annual summaries’. as of noon today, we had received 22 replies from the member states. we are assessing the compliance of these reports with the obligations under the financial regulation, and we will report to you as soon as we have a clear picture of this, including with regard to the quality of these reports. in conclusion, i can declare that we are taking transparency very seriously and that the european transparency initiative is delivering on many points raised in the report. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the transparency initiative is perhaps the barroso commission's greatest success. i thank you for your words, commissioner, and i thank you also for the fact that you have put forward the idea of standardizing the publication of the names of the beneficiaries of subsidies. this was a very important point of discussion between parliament and the commission last year. you should know that this house and the epp group are always on your side on the issue of transparency. because we want to know whether we are achieving our policy goals through the grantees - the money recipients. we are concerned with achieving the policy objectives and nothing else. but to do that, we need to know more than we know now. commissioner, you are working on a new code of ethics. we believe that the institutions need these rules and that the commissioners themselves need a new code of conduct. but to avoid any misunderstanding, i would remind you again that it is not the commission's place to lay down rules for parliament. we make our own rules. we are not officials, unlike the members of other eu institutions, although a linguistic inaccuracy might give this impression. we have a proposal to amend paragraph 22 and i would like to ask for your support. we want to replace the list with a reference to the previous rules. there 's always something about a census . we want to leave it deliberately open whether we need that many, whether we need more or fewer criteria. we are not satisfied - and this is part of the report - with the large-scale recovery of funds wrongly paid. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because on this large construction site, everything is not transparent. i would ask you to really tackle this problem now. the recovery must not continue to depend on as many accidents as before. we welcome the structural funds action plan this week. but it still needs to be fed with credibility - for parliament and also for the commission's discharge. our rapporteur, javier pomés ruiz, has presented a good and interesting report. i am sure that this report, which is parliament's opinion, will also help the commission in its further development.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, mr musotto’s report covers two years of efforts to improve the protection of the financial interests of the european union. a sound system of financial management needs to focus on expenditure and the control and fighting of irregularities, and especially those committed with fraudulent intent. the report contains many of the same preoccupations as the discharge report, with the protection of financial interests being viewed, of course, as a core element of sound financial management, but the focus is different. i would like to warmly thank the rapporteur, mr musotto, for a very focused report, which concentrates on the main issues and makes many calls on the commission to strengthen efforts. allow me to comment on four of them. firstly, the role of member states: the report makes use of the wealth of figures and statistics on irregularities by member states, and their financial impact. it does not hesitate to point out that some member states perform better than others. i would stress once again that a high number of irregularities does not necessarily mean a high level of fraud, but it can be a good indicator of effective and thorough controls. when i presented the commission report in july, i emphasised the need for member states to ensure a correct, complete and timely communication of data on irregularities. a good flow of information between the member states and the commission is essential for effective recovery and joint action against fraudsters. many of them are doing this, but for some there is still room for improvement. the commission, with the support of the european parliament, will not shy away from reminding them of their responsibility. i fully agree with the invitation expressed in the report for the council to take up the annual reports and consider them at ministerial level. the eu’s financial management system is complex, because responsibility is shared with the member states. the increased focus on the national declarations, placing responsibility for spending with the member states, should go hand in hand with cooperation over tackling irregularities and fighting fraud. i very much welcome the report’s focus on systemic and general issues rather than on individual cases, for which, as you know, olaf is independent in its investigations. the commission fully agrees with the european parliament on the need to analyse in greater depth the structures existing in member states in charge of combating irregularities, to support them and facilitate cooperation and the exchange of information. this will be taken up in the 2008 report. this year’s commission report highlights the topics of risk analysis and risk management, exclusion databases and early-warning/whistleblower tools. in addition, the report examines the steps taken by member states to improve recovery of amounts not collected or wrongly paid, as well as the mechanisms under national law for recovery by offsetting. the report also contains information on amounts recovered and the financial corrections, in particular when a payment has not been made in conformity with community rules. the role of organised crime, such as the mafia, in undermining the eu’s financial interests is a subject close to the heart of the rapporteur. olaf has contributed to the organised crime threat assessment (octa) produced by europol. i am happy to report that i have asked both bodies to continue to cooperate on the matter. value added tax and customs fraud is where the big money is. sadly, it is an area where cooperation with member states is often difficult. i will be very brief, and refer to what i will say on the newton dunn report, and thank the european parliament for its ongoing support in underlining the useful role that cooperation at eu level can bring in this area. my fourth and last comment will be on the revision of the olaf regulation. the commission tabled a proposal in this regard in may 2006. i remain convinced that it raises the main important issues relating to the effective functioning of the anti-fraud office, namely the flow of information, procedural rights and the complaints mechanism, the role of the supervisory committee and, more generally, governance and accountability. i very much hope that we can enter into interinstitutional discussions on finding solutions in the very near future and make progress on these important points. the musotto report reiterates the desire to group together anti-fraud legislation. from a political viewpoint i fully support this, but technically it will be a challenging task. the commission will be ready to forward the requested analysis to the european parliament by may this year.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the epp-ed group is responsible for the fraud report for the first time and we thank mr musotto for putting the work of olaf and cooperation with the member states at the centre of his report. he had to be diligent: 630 pages of statistics anti-fraud material from 2005 and 2006. his record is very mixed, and i think we really need to step in here. the member states do not attach sufficient importance to the detection of irregularities. the council has once again refrained from taking part in a very important debate, which for it, as the second arm of the budgetary authority, is also about the money it is co-managing and co-spending for the taxpayers. the rapporteur proposes that formal action be taken against germany and spain for breaches of eu law. spain shall transmit data on irregularities only in paper form. the data are also very incomplete, especially on irregularities, as the 18th structural funds report shows. germany is a very special case. it takes longer to report than the other member states and is the only eu country to report irregularities without a name. how can olaf do its work without knowing the names? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are respected. germany also impedes olaf's investigations on the ground, for example in relation to customs offences and export refunds. we ask the commission to report to us on each member state and its willingness or unwillingness to cooperate, at the latest at the next olaf rotation report. in the view of our group, the forthcoming reform of olaf's legal basis must be used above all to improve olaf's working conditions with the member states. i would like to thank olaf itself and the staff working in a very difficult field. i think the results of the office can really be seen. but i am also convinced that these results could be better than they are if we worked better with the member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak again. i should like to thank mr bösch not only for his praise of our rapporteur but also for his fairness and helpfulness. mr bösch has been working on the fraud report for many years. we have this honour now, and i think it was and is a very strong sign from the committee on budgetary control that we are in agreement here. we have focused the whole thing on the member states. the commission should also take with it the message that we want to help it to clear up its ambiguities with the member states. if you look at the figures on the issue of recovery, you have a lot of different opinions. that is why we are having this discussion in the current discharge procedure. i would therefore ask the commission to have the courage to say that it does not know certain things so that we can help it. because i believe that if we work together on this issue, we can also succeed together. i would like to thank mr bösch once again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would also like to thank the rapporteur and, of course, our shadow rapporteurs, who have done a valuable job on a very technical dossier. the new customs code will replace the existing code and the regulations referring to it with a modernised code, streamline existing customs procedures and lay the foundations for accessible interoperable customs procedures at the european level. we welcome this, because it means that companies will have to adapt to the current developments in information technology and deal more quickly and safely with the increasing quantities of goods crossing the eu's borders. the trade unions and chambers of commerce rightly warned at the beginning of the excessive bureaucracy of eu security initiatives that have been flown in from the united states, and we have finally found a relatively solid, unbureaucratic solution through the discussions in parliament and also through intensive contact with the commission departments, to whom i expressly thank for this. an important point for companies, which is now being implemented, is the establishment of central customs clearance in the framework of a single point of contact. we have also been able to assert the requirement - and i am very proud of this - that the status of approved operator is, in the end, a truly privileged status, which benefits only those operators who meet the criteria set out. as a member from south baden, i should like to point out that the customs code can cause considerable problems at national borders, at the borders of the european union, with non-member countries, if appropriate precautions are not taken in good time. i know that the commission wants to take this precaution, and i hope - i am speaking of switzerland - that the member states of the eu-switzerland joint committee will also play their part here. switzerland is one of the most important buyers of eu goods. the four eu member states directly adjacent to switzerland account for 41% of switzerland's total exports and 59% of its total imports, and therefore action is needed. we cannot accept that within the framework of the customs code, kilometres of queues are being built up at the swiss border just because the swiss customs procedure differs in a few minor points. i would like to ask you, mr kovács, once again, very warmly, to take up this problem and to speak forcefully to the member states, who must be held accountable. it is also a question of an economic centre in the heart of europe which must not be cut off from international trade.
member of the commission. − mr president, my point of departure is that i am not only pleased but also very proud that we have reached this point, because i agree with all those speakers who consider it a very great achievement for the union as a whole. first of all, i would like to express my thanks for your support for the modernised customs code and for your interest in future developments. as you have recalled, the adoption and subsequent entry into force of the code will not be the end of the story, since its application will depend on the finalisation and application of its implementing provisions. the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny will be used for the adoption of these provisions. it will give parliament the possibility to check the way the commission intends to implement in detail, with the assistance of the customs code committee, the general provisions resulting from the code. besides this procedural requirement, the commission intends to keep parliament, through its committee on the internal market and consumer protection, properly informed about the state of preparation of the draft implementing measures and the time-schedule envisaged for the application of the modernised customs code. concerning the problem of switzerland and the european union, which mr schwab raised, on 1 july 2009 the security amendment to the community customs code will be fully implemented. this means that all goods entering or leaving the community shall be the subject of a pre-arrival or pre-departure declaration. the authorised economic operator will benefit from the facilitations envisaged in the code. as with other third countries, we are currently negotiating with switzerland on the mutual recognition of control centres, the results of controls and the status of authorised economic operator. the negotiations are ongoing, and we are looking for a mutually satisfactory solution to be in place by 1 july 2009. now let me finish by inviting you to join the celebrations of the 40th anniversary of the customs union on 1 july 2008. the customs union was the first cornerstone in building the internal market and remains one of its essential components. i am looking forward to continuing our discussion about the future role of customs in the context of the celebrations. thank you very much, once again, for your support.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, addressing radicalisation into violence is at the core of the commission’s counter-terrorism policy, and i therefore welcome the report being discussed today and the very vital issues it tackles. i also welcome the progress in interinstitutional cooperation in the area of recognition of the enormous challenge we face in developing a coherent eu policy that prevents, interrupts or reverses radicalisation processes. after a series of initiatives in recent years, since my first communication on the subject in september 2005, a communication will be presented to the council and parliament in july this year, identifying good practices in the member states and making concrete recommendations for the way forward. i notice that the report makes a recommendation to the commission in this regard. we have devoted time and resources in the last three years to better understanding this phenomenon, its trends, its manifestations and its dynamics. we have commissioned four separate comparative studies which are now being completed. we have sent a questionnaire to all the member states and are currently analysing the answers received. we have organised a conference on the role of education in preventing radicalisation, which brought together educators, religious leaders and policy-makers to brainstorm new ideas. we are working on drafting the communication at the moment. the first three studies – on trigger factors, narrative and mobilisation tactics – are to be approved in the coming month. a fourth study on civil society engagement (best practices) is likely to be published around the time of the communication’s adoption in july. its main results will by that stage already have been incorporated into the communication. analysis of the questionnaire sent to the member states is ongoing and will also feed into the reflection on the communication. we can therefore now formulate our policy with much deeper insight into the problem. our communication will deal with important issues like the narrative used by violent radicals and radicalisation in prisons and in other places of vulnerability. we will also be talking about the role of education, and civil society engagement in countering radicalisation. members will be aware that, in relation to incitement, we have presented a proposal for the amendment of the framework decision on combating terrorism that is one part of the ‘terrorism package’ introduced last november. that instrument aims to introduce into the framework decision offences parallel to those covered in the council of europe convention on the prevention of terrorism: public provocation, recruitment and training for terrorism – including via the internet – and in particular internet instructions on how to produce home-made bombs. the commission is strongly committed to supporting the victims of terrorism. we have, since 2004, demonstrated our support through financial assistance to numerous projects intended to help associations of victims of terrorism and to promote solidarity among european citizens. we envisage creating, in 2008, a european network of associations of victims of terrorism, in order to represent victims’ interests at european level and to strengthen european citizens’ solidarity with victims of terrorism. in conclusion, in order to tackle the terrorist threat at european level, it is absolutely necessary to implement a global prevention policy on the factors leading to radicalisation and recruitment, in order to explore its deep roots, while never justifying terrorist behaviour. jihadist terrorism remains the biggest threat to democratic societies, including thousands of millions of honest muslim people in the eu and in many other parts of the world.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it's actually sad that we have to have a debate about terrorism again. radicalisation and terrorism are not in keeping with europe. the europe we are building is a europe of tolerance, and that is why it is always sad to have to talk about this subject. we have a lot in common. terrorism is identified as a major threat. the recruitment must be stopped. we must respect fundamental rights. dialogue is the key to tolerance. we must be especially careful about the internet. it has special significance in communication. in foreign policy we see counterterrorism work as of particular importance. we need better networking of services in europe in the fight against radicalisation and in the fight against terrorism. i would like to thank our vice-president for having suggested and summarised this. it is therefore a great pity for my group that the outstretched hand of our rapporteur, mayor oreja, was not taken, that a compromise was not possible in the end. we have therefore defined a number of key points for tomorrow's vote. for example, if there are petitions to strike out that define that the violation of individual liberties and the rule of law leads to terrorism; i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is very pleased that the council has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. if you want to fight a threat, you have to know where the threat is coming from. that is why we must also mention jihadist terrorism as the central challenge in this report. if that is deleted, we will not be able to agree to the report. we will not support further dilution. that is why i hope that we will get good results tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank mr deprez and mr guardans cambó for what they have said. i think that is very much in line with what our group thinks is right. the report is entitled 'factors favouring the support of terrorism and the recruitment of terrorists'. it is right that we should be praised for dealing with this. but this is not the first time we have done this. the european parliament and the union as a whole have so far spoken out against hate speech and have taken preventive measures to curb the financial flows of terrorist organisations. i think these are sensible measures. i think that the report is very much in tune with the situation. i think it's a little overrated to think of the internet as a haven for all evil or a sanctuary. it's certainly a space where social events are mirrored in the same way as real life, and i don't think you should be focusing your energy on curbing that for good. you're not going to make it. the question is, what can we do instead? audiovisual services have been mentioned. the question arises, then, why is the european union not taking action when certain broadcasters on its territory broadcast hate programmes directed at children? in one hezbollah program, for example, a character dressed as mickey mouse - whatever - attacks jewish settlers. it is a means of teaching palestinian children their history. it is not the case that a member state has intervened to eliminate this problem. instead, the walt disney company claimed the rights to mickey mouse, and the series' ending was then twisted to show mickey mouse being killed by a jewish settler. and this was broadcast on european soil! why is hezbollah still not on the european union's terrorist list? we just had an interesting conversation with dick marty about that. i believe fundamentally that more building blocks are needed to contain terrorism fully. this certainly includes tackling its root causes locally in the countries concerned, including through the creation of health systems, infrastructure and education systems. we cannot leave such resources to terrorist organizations like hamas in the gaza strip or hezbollah, because these social sanctuaries are the places where these organizations also recruit supporters.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was asked by colleagues from the alde group how the epp-ed group would behave. i would like to reiterate that 95% of what is summarized in the report is supported by the epp-ed group. i would also like to stress that i regret that both the alde representative and the pse representative, spanish colleagues, have attacked the epp. it is a pity that domestic issues are the reason why we cannot find common ground in this parliament. if you want us to get a big resolution of the whole house tomorrow, please vote for the epp motions. we're not changing the substance of the motion, but we're taking the domestic issue out of it. anyone who wants the epp's outstretched hand can show it tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think it's charming that you're allowed to speak again, in another debate it was handled differently. nevertheless, even if mr pirker and i do not agree on all points - we argue often, happily and passionately - he is quite right when he says that such debates must not be misused for national purposes. not only does this disturb, but it often leads to wrong compromises. i am sure that the spanish colleagues in this house will answer this differently. i know from personal experience that this is something that is very often dragged into the national debate. i am also getting tired of the fact that we are - it is not the first time - a ping-pong ball between the ppe-de and the pse when it comes to such things. i am glad that the liberals were still able to act as mediators, and that they were still functioning. the colleague from northern ireland is no longer here. this annoys me in that he said something that i think is incredible, namely that terrorists do not have the same basic human rights as everyone else. but that's precisely what separates us from terrorists, that we have a universal acceptance of human rights. that impression must never be created here, that this house could ever see it differently.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. i am glad to say that the reform of the trade defence instruments that you have proposed has failed. you, commissioner, have tried to push forward the tdi reform by including this project in the global europe strategy. even if one assumes that there is a need for such a system, it is clear that the aim should be to strengthen these instruments where they make sense, rather than to eliminate them in practice. but the latter was the intention of your communication of november 2007. they have also bypassed the vast majority of stakeholders who support the existing system, as opposed to a small minority who want to undermine it. the fact that the commission itself has abandoned the reorganisation project shows that the vast majority of member states, and many of your own colleagues, considered the proposals unacceptable and that they were too much in the interests of a small but very vocal lobby. who would have benefited from this reform? i would like to say that i am not in favour of the european workers facing unemployment because large companies are exploiting the comparative advantages you have so much praised in emerging countries, or the workers in those countries who are exposed to unacceptable working conditions, or - i say this to you as an entrepreneur - the companies which produce in the european union according to the rules and do not want to increase their profits by applying poor environmental and social standards in some third countries. the proposals had nothing to do with fairness and justice in global trade relations and between companies. the only beneficiaries of this would be the large importers, who are naturally annoyed by attempts to curb their abusive practices. on the one hand, it is the wholesale and distribution chains that hide behind consumer interests and are happy to forget that consumers are also workers, citizens and taxpayers, and it is also those in the eu who are primarily thinking about their income from capital investments, without taking into account that the union must be further developed primarily through mutual solidarity and support. the system of trade defence instruments is not perfect, but it is the best functioning system in the world so far. i did not invent this, but you - the commission - commissioned a study in 2006 which states that. we should wait to see what changes are coming about in the world trade organisation before we reform this area. such a reform must take account of the way our trading partners operate, rather than unilaterally renouncing any legal possibility of protection against dumping. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i regret to add that i do not agree with the commission's approach to the application of the trade defence instruments during 2007. many member states and other stakeholders have protested that the commission simply applied the changes it proposed before the council and parliament had a chance to comment. in the past few months the trade dg has simply and profoundly abandoned some of the principles of institutional cooperation which had hitherto been in force. the result is that no new cases have been opened at all. i can only hope and ask you not to continue this type of cooperation between the commission and parliament in the future. i would also ask you to present your key plans under the trade defence instruments framework to our committee on international trade and to have a serious discussion with the members.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the subject of today's debate has been overwhelming for many in the past few days and weeks. a lot of people in the council committee almost had a heart attack when they read the first draft of the reform. the commission has stopped the initiative because you, commissioner, seem to have been overwhelmed by the need to present a proposal for reform which could be supported by a majority. our parliament's administration was overwhelmed and put today's debate on the agenda with the nonsensical title commission statement - reform of trade protection instruments, and the list of speakers does not say much better than reform of consumer protection instruments. the public, when i look at the stands, has retreated into a restaurant or home. i hope that we can keep a record of this in the chamber. i very much regret that the commission has not succeeded in presenting a proposal for reform which could have found the majority in the council and parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what's the big deal? firstly, will the commission inform parliament in good time of any resumption of the reform and will it involve us closely? i refer specifically to the co-decision rights under the treaty of lisbon. secondly, will there now be a back door reform without a decision by the council and parliament? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the trade defence instruments should be applied in accordance with the rules currently in force and the practice of the past. thirdly, why are you making personnel changes in the relevant department at this time? we will be following very closely the behaviour of the commission and the trade dg over the coming weeks.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, i am sure you have a difficult job. you have one of the most difficult departments to manage in the world. the trade/external trade sector is facing completely new challenges. we've been talking about globalization for many years, but i think we're just beginning to understand what it's all about. you said, when you gave your famous churchill speech in berlin, that europe is facing new challenges, and that the challenges have changed since the end of the war, because our coordinates are no longer berlin or paris, but our coordinates are bombay, shanghai and the other major world cities of these emerging developing countries. we agree with you. you're absolutely right. we're looking at it the same way you are. we see the challenges facing the european union in a new international and global context. china is real. china is not just a myth or an image, but china has become a reality for all of us and stands as a symbol of change. the question is, what conclusions do we draw from this? they conclude that we need to change the instruments. they conclude that we need to address the challenges by adapting trade defence instruments or other areas. in my group we have not found the final answer, but we certainly have much more doubts. as you can hear, that doubt is shared in this house. we have doubts because the protection measures are proven. the protective equipment has a certain flexibility. the protection instruments can be interpreted in different ways. the protection instruments may take account of the interests of the different industries. the community interest may be interpreted differently by the instruments of protection. the test can be applied in different ways. yeah, it's not always perfect. there have been few mistakes in your house, by the way. i've been able to track two of them myself where the evaluation was wrong. but i think that's going to be the case with new instruments. i mean, where's the course going? you say you want to continue the course, you want to continue the consultations. they haven't closed the chest yet. so, where's the course going? how will the discussions be continued? how do you intend to conduct the discussions with this house and the committee responsible? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i'd really appreciate it if you'd answer it, because i get emails every day. is the change in your house an indicator that you are continuing the change in the direction of your indicated communication? is the engineering transformation you're obviously doing in your house an indicator of that? can the non-use of the trade defence instruments in 2007 also be interpreted as an indicator? or is this a coincidence and a reference to other events?
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the regulation on accreditation and market surveillance is a complex and apparently very fragile, rather technical matter, both in legal and factual terms. but there is no doubt that it is of great political significance for consumers, but also for the economy in europe. the problems which led the commission to its proposal and which have been decisive in the debates of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, in numerous amendments and decisions, are obvious. i will answer only three questions. firstly, the system of accreditation has not been regulated at european level, although it exists in most member states and is essential for the quality of market surveillance organisations. in the light of the european single market and the free movement of goods within the eu, it is of particular importance to consumers that the apparent differences in the quality and effectiveness of market surveillance organisations be compensated for by european rules on accreditation bodies. the european parliament has imposed significantly stronger obligations on these authorities and member states, in addition to the commission's proposal. the regulation clearly prohibits the commercialisation, profit-making and competition of accreditation bodies and safeguards their independence and public-law status. secondly, although consumer and environmental safety and protection are covered by numerous european directives or other binding standards, the case of the us toy manufacturer martell in the past year has not only shown that, on the one hand, the practice is often unsatisfactory and, on the other hand, the monitoring of the rules at european borders and on the european market is very different and in some cases insufficient. of course, amendments and improvements to individual directives, such as the toy directive, are also needed. the commission's proposal for a regulation was aimed above all at improving, strengthening and approximating the system of market surveillance. this position has not only been shared by the european parliament but has been developed in many ways, and the obligations on member states and market surveillance authorities, including the requirements for cooperation with customs authorities, have been substantially specified and increased. this also meant that we had a strong duty to inform and a public right to know. i am glad that the council and the commission have followed parliament's request. thirdly, i personally regard the inclusion of consumer goods as the greatest success of parliament and the most substantial improvement we have achieved. the advantages of this regulation, which is highly legally binding, and the advantages of the general product safety directive, which includes very detailed but not legally binding measures to protect consumers, can be combined. this was the most difficult part of our discussions and negotiations with the commission and the council, both legally and technically. the success of the commission's proposals is clearly due to the fact that the three institutions, while favouring different approaches, agreed on the objective of greater consumer protection and effective market surveillance. i would therefore like to thank commissioners kuneva and verheugen, the staff of the commission and the partners from the german, portuguese and, in particular, slovenian presidencies for their intensive, constructive and respectful cooperation. i would like to mention here the recently deceased commissioner ayral, with whom this cooperation was organized. the more we all suffer this loss. i can confirm to the presidency that without the comprehensive cooperation of the three most recent presidencies, the result would hardly have been achieved at this stage. the legal basis for consumer safety and health, for environmental protection, for the quality of products is being substantially strengthened by this regulation. it is now up to the member states and the commission to take advantage of these opportunities and to implement them in the interests of consumers. i would also like to express my special thanks to my shadow rapporteurs, christel schaldemose and alexander stubb, for their excellent cooperation on this package.
the chairman of the council. − mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr commissioner, it is a great honour to be with you today in the european parliament's plenary session to discuss the product package. the free movement of goods is without doubt one of the cornerstones of european integration. i am very pleased that in a year in which we are celebrating the 40th anniversary of the customs union and in which the review of the functioning of the internal market is also at the centre of attention, we can add a new piece to the mosaic of the better functioning of the european market. the free movement of goods was one of the areas where slovenia had its first contacts with european legislation. i am therefore all the more pleased that it will be during the slovenian presidency that we will have the opportunity to confirm the agreement on the product package, which is certainly a new milestone in the construction of the european union's internal market. i would like to point out that this year alone, during the slovenian presidency, there were some 30 or 35 meetings at all levels, and we are only in the middle of february. that there were over, or about 300 amendments to this text by the end of november, and for that i would like to thank everyone, especially my colleagues, who have worked very hard to achieve this result. i agree that the product package is very technical on the surface, but i am sure that european companies will tell you very clearly that this is the legislation that most directly affects their business. in the legislative package, we have made it clear to member states exactly what they can and cannot do with regard to products that companies want to market. on the other hand, companies will be clear about what they can expect from national authorities. they will know the procedures, how much time the administration can take to deal with their cases when it comes to products for which there is no harmonised community legislation, and what the procedures are for any withdrawal of such products from the market. this is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are subject to an unreasonably higher burden of administrative procedures than others. the new legislation will make it much easier for them to do so, and the product package will benefit european businesses. there's no doubt about it. however, what is very important to me personally will also benefit european consumers. the market surveillance accreditation regulation has strengthened the effectiveness of market surveillance. this will ensure that consumers have access to products that are safe and meet all requirements to the greatest extent possible. in the same way, we will ensure that the controls on products entering the european union from third countries are effective and that we can avoid cases in the future where products have appeared on the european market which have been harmful to the health of the population, and even worse to the health of our children. the procedures for member states to deal with cases of unsafe products are now clearer. there is also a clear and strengthened link with legislation in the field of general product safety. i believe that this will increase the confidence of our citizens in the internal market of the european union in the most direct way. i should also mention that the product package is part of the efforts to improve the regulatory environment. the decision on a common framework for the marketing of products will provide the european commission and the two legislators with a clear blueprint, a kind of manual, the essential elements of which should be incorporated in future european union technical legislation. this will make eu legislation more transparent and understandable, and will make it easier for member states to implement it in practice. i am confident that the new legislation will contribute to a more efficient organisation of national administrations and to a more transparent operation for businesses and citizens. it will strengthen and simplify cooperation between member states and thus contribute to a better interconnectedness of accreditation and market surveillance institutions in the european union. in conclusion, let me thank all three rapporteurs, mrs schaldemose, mr stubb and mr briu, for their extremely cooperative and constructive cooperation. of course, we also thank the commission, commissioner verheugen, for his tireless help and advice in drafting the final agreement between the european parliament and the council. all this has led to the development of a coherent and, in my opinion, extremely good final text for all three documents examined in an extremely short time. i think we have shown together that when it comes to the well-being of european citizens and the european economy, the european institutions work together in a united and effective way. thank you very much for all your efforts and your attention.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the main objective of this initiative, which we presented almost exactly one year ago, was to optimise the free movement of goods within the european internal market, while at the same time strengthening consumer and business confidence in the internal market rules. i want to thank you all today for embracing this goal so fully. it is truly impressive that this complex and sometimes rather technical package has been brought to a successful conclusion in such a short time. this is due to the extraordinary efforts of all those involved, and i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mrs schaldemose, mr brie and mr stubb, for this. i am very grateful to you, ladies and gentlemen of the committee, for your contributions to the debate, which have acknowledged the important role played here by our late colleague, michel ayral. in fact, he was the architect of this package, and i have to admit that i sometimes felt like he was the only one who fully understood it. i also thank the slovenian presidency for making this project a priority in its work. it is a great achievement of the slovenian presidency that we can adopt this package today. i am also the first to admit that this very comprehensive package of legislation is leaving parliament in a better quality than it came in. and i'm glad that it is. it shows exactly how the european institutions are to work together. we can therefore present a package which will benefit all the actors in the internal market: the economy, in particular small and mediumsized enterprises, but above all consumers. the mutual recognition regulation will make it easier for companies to market their products throughout europe in the future without encountering barriers in the form of different national rules. we all know that these different national regulations have very often been nothing but protectionism. this will benefit small businesses in particular, for whom it is particularly difficult in practice to overcome such administrative hurdles. i think that this last aspect is particularly important from the point of view of the whole policy. we have more than 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises (smes) in europe today. these represent 99% of all companies in europe. there are only 44,000 businesses in europe that are not small and mediumsized. but what is somewhat surprising is the fact that only 8% of all our companies are involved in crossborder exports at all, and that includes the european single market. this means that over 90% of all our european companies are not leaving their home market, are not taking advantage of the internal market in any way. i think that this is primarily due to the fact that there have been too many practical problems in the day-to-day application of the internal market rules. that is precisely where our proposals have come from. the regulation on accreditation and market surveillance will significantly increase the effectiveness of our internal market rules, and these rules are designed in particular to ensure the safety of products. the new regulations mean that the product standards we will have, the requirements for their safety and quality, can now be really controlled. we are therefore supplementing the technical rules for the internal market for the first time with a common policy of market surveillance, and are thus taking a major step towards improved product safety. the question of the ce marking has received particular attention during the discussions and also in today's debate. i would like to begin by saying that i am pleased that parliament has decided to strengthen the ce marking so that it can better fulfil its role in product safety. nevertheless, i agree with mrs mccarthy that this ce mark raises a number of questions which have arisen over the many years in which it has been used. for example, the question of a uniform european safety sign, as mrs mccarthy has also explicitly mentioned. i am happy to tell you that the commission is not only ready to present the study requested by parliament, but that we have already started the preparatory work because i believe that this project is urgent and that we will present this study as soon as possible. the ce marking was not created for the information of the consumer at the time. it's a misunderstanding that keeps happening. the ce marking merely confirms the conformity of a product with all the rules applicable to it. the consumer can only take action with the ce marking if he knows what regulations actually apply to a particular product. but that is clearly too much to ask, and it is not possible to ask that of the consumer. it is true that the ce marking is also a safety mark in most cases, but not always, and not only. but the most important information that consumers want to know is, is my product safe? i therefore agree with parliament and the commission that the whole system of ce marking must be examined. the possibility and usefulness of introducing an additional plate will also be considered. it is necessary to examine very carefully whether this is feasible and what the consequences would be for all concerned. the commission is in any case fully open on this matter and ready to cooperate with parliament and the council in any way. in the course of our work we are also examining the costs involved in introducing a new system or adapting existing systems and, more importantly, the additional benefits in terms of cost benefits to consumers, manufacturers, traders and public authorities. another important issue under consideration concerns the relationship between any specific consumer marking and all other marks, including the ce marking. as regards the question of strengthening the credibility of the ce marking by means of stricter controls on products from third countries, the regulation on accreditation and market surveillance will make an important contribution to solving this problem once the member states have implemented it. i would like to stress this point: product safety is a question of the credibility of the whole internal market project for the citizens. the decision on a common legal framework for the marketing of products is of particular importance for future legislation. this decision sets the standards that will apply to our future legislation. the first is to guarantee a high level of security, such as the provisions on importers' liability. secondly, it will ensure greater coherence in the overall rules, which will make it easier for companies to actually comply with the rules. the first example of how this decision is to be implemented in practice is already before parliament, namely in the form of the toy directive, which the commission has already adopted. more examples will follow shortly. the commission is more than satisfied with the political outcome that is emerging here today. i thank them for their active interest and contributions which have made this package a real qualitative leap forward for one of the central projects of european integration policy, the creation of a truly functioning internal market. this will give the single market a new quality. we are thus as close as possible to the completion of the internal market in goods. i use the expression 'as close as possible' because i also want to make one thing clear: there will never be a 100% harmonisation in the european internal market. i don't think we really want this either. in view of the wide range of traditions and needs in the member states of the european union, there must also be a certain scope for preserving these national needs and traditions. we must find a balance here very carefully. but as i said, our rules are as close as possible to the completion of the internal market. i think that is also an important contribution to more growth and more employment in europe and also an answer to the question of how europe is preparing for the economic challenges of the 21st century. (applause from the centre)
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the committee on international trade is very satisfied with the content of mr brie's report. he and his colleagues on the imco committee have done a very good job of finding a balanced position on this complex but important issue. the impact of this regulation on external trade appears to be limited. i think there is an increasing link between the internal market and external trade. the opportunities and risks of the ever-widening opening up of our market must be carefully weighed and considered. the european union has an important role to play in ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market and must not allow it to be jeopardised by actors outside or within the community. i am very pleased that the committee responsible has accepted the inta committee's proposals concerning the restriction of market access for products with false or misleading ce marking. on the one hand, it facilitates reliable and transparent information for consumers, and on the other hand, it increases the possibilities of combating abusive practices that violate national and eu legislation. i would like to stress here that the monitoring of products from non-eu countries requires greater attention. this is not about protectionism. it is a fact that violations of existing rules are much more frequent where actual checks are carried out at a much lower level than within the european union. we must also ensure that we do not give advantages to manufacturers who profit not only from the potential advantages of being located in countries outside the european union but also from the cost-effectiveness of trying to circumvent technical and legal requirements imposed by the eu in the interests of citizens. in addition, some of the so-called location advantages may be attractive from a business point of view, but in the long run they have extremely harmful consequences for the environment and are totally unacceptable from a social policy point of view. i would also like to point out that the imco committee has accepted the inta committee's request to strengthen the sanctions in cases of repeated infringements. we are also very satisfied with the report by mrs schaldemose. the text of the inta committee's amendments has not been adopted in its entirety, but their intentions have been adopted. it is worth noting that this new proposal provides for equal burden sharing for all trading actors involved in the market, whether they are manufacturers, importers or traders. it is also important that importers of products from third countries are required to ensure that these products comply with the requirements applicable in the community. the background to our amendments was that importers would be held jointly responsible with the outside manufacturers for any damage caused by dangerous or illegal products. this proposal aims to encourage importers to check more closely whether their manufacturers are complying with legal obligations. because they know that it will be expensive if they do not control carefully the products they bring into the single market. this not only contributes to a level playing field in the european union but also reduces incentives to move production to countries outside the european union where laws and regulations are less stringent than here. i also support the recommendation in the report that member states should be responsible for strong, efficient and intelligent market surveillance on their territory and should provide sufficient skills and resources to do so. the proper enforcement of the proposed rules is essential if we want our market rules to be properly applied and european consumers to be protected from dangerous products or those which are in breach of ec law.
adopted by the commission on 27 june. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am speaking as rapporteur for the committee on the environment on the brie report and i am concentrating above all on the area of market surveillance. that was a major concern of us in the environment committee. in recent months, the question has often been asked: what does ce stand for? what do these two letters stand for? in fact, they are in favour of respecting european rules. but many people have made fun of the ce debate, which is really about china exporting. it is unfortunate that the ce marking is affixed by manufacturers who do not comply with the rules. it doesn't happen all the time, but unfortunately it happens a lot in the far east. this practice is unacceptable because it poses risks to consumers and to health and the environment, but it is also bad for the companies that follow the rules. i would like to make it quite clear: compliance with european rules must not be a competitive disadvantage, and disregard for european rules must not be a competitive advantage. the committee on the environment has therefore already called for increased market surveillance in the past, for example in the context of the ecodesign directive. that is why it is good that the commission has made the proposal. we think he's late, but better late than never. so it's good that we've got a very quick settlement now. the committee on the environment, like the imco committee, felt that the transitional periods proposed by the commission were far too long. we should have these rules in place as soon as possible. the compromise of 1 january 2010 is not what we want, but it is an improvement on the commission proposal, as in many other areas. i call on the member states to provide the staff and the necessary measures to improve market surveillance really quickly and that we do not take advantage of the transitional period. we must act very quickly in the interests of consumers and honest businesses.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. let me start by congratulating the birthday boy, malcolm harbour. i'm so happy that we can give you this beautiful birthday present. we can actually say that we have a week of the single market, which is of course something very important. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we can also clearly say that we have here some market and consumer screws being tightened. that's a good thing. the three reports before us and the oral question tabled by arlene mccarthy on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection are a piece of work that the european parliament can show off. we should thank the rapporteurs and all the other members for this. i would also like to thank mia de vits and barbara weiler from my group, because they have not yet been named, and of course our rapporteur, mrs christel schaldemose. i'll never forget you, mr stubb. and i'll never forget mr brie. i'll never forget you. i'll never forget you. i think that with this package we are making a valuable and necessary contribution to completing the internal market legislation. at the same time, we are strengthening consumer protection in the internal market. this is of particular importance to the socialist group. but we are far from finished. we must continue to pay close attention to the safety of products traded in the internal market. i would like to thank commissioner verheugen in particular for his very clear, unambiguous approach to the future of the ce marking and how we can achieve improved product labelling in the internal market and in the european union. this is a very important thing, so that consumers, citizens, can really see and respect the european union as their union. this is a very important point in this context. we are very much looking forward to the results of the study and what it will lead to, and i am very pleased that you have made it so clear that this is a very high priority for the european commission, and that is a good thing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the ce marking is not used in the same way as the other marks. i also think it is good that we have succeeded in keeping the national quality marks in the reports we have and in the agreement we have concluded with the council. of course, with the proviso - and this is very important to us as the european parliament - that these national labels actually represent an added value in consumer protection and are not ignored or misinterpreted for protectionist reasons. the second condition is that we shall have a european safety mark at some point, which is at least as good as, if not better than, these national marks. then we can talk about abolishing them. it is also important that we have the vote today, and i would also like to thank minister vizjak once again. i know how difficult it was in the council, because we put a lot of pressure on the council. i am well aware that the council would have liked to have had a little more time to negotiate with parliament. i acknowledge that you have done everything possible to ensure that we can still vote this week, and that is a good thing, because it has also brought clarity. i would like to thank you again for this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. happy birthday, mr. harbour, and may we continue to work together. and of course, many thanks to all three rapporteurs. i was the shadow rapporteur on all three reports, so i know how much you have contributed and how you have worked to ensure that this proposal which the commission has put before us has been improved in substantial respects. at the same time, i would like to thank commissioner verheugen for pointing out once again that this proposal is coming out of parliament better than it came in. i think that's important because we've all worked hard on this. we have really tried to improve the conditions for businesses and consumers. this package has three points. the mutual recognition regulation is intended primarily to remove non-tariff - or, one might say, protectionist - barriers. however, we have also maintained a balance in the committee - which mr verheugen has also mentioned and which i also consider to be very important - which was sometimes not achieved in the debate. on the one hand, non-tariff barriers should be removed, but on the other hand it should remain a matter for the member states, subject of course to certain conditions. in germany, for example, we have the controversy over the nazi insignia. so if there are certain problems with certain products which cannot be accepted in individual member states on ethical grounds, it must be possible that they continue to be unacceptable. the balance has been maintained. i also think it is very important because it is the only way to create a broad acceptance of the internal market and the principle of the internal market among consumers, but also among the relevant businessmen. we've made a lot of progress on that. i also think it is important that we have established contact points, but also that we have made it clear that there is no additional bureaucratic burden because we already have contact points for the services directive and for the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. the more contact points we set up, the greater the burden on individual member states could be. we have also acted very responsibly. it was also important to us that we said, of course, that mutual recognition can only work if the conditions for marketing authorization are the same in all the member states. there were indeed differences in the conditions in the member states. there have been tendencies to privatise market surveillance, to partially privatise, to certify, to allow the certification to be more or less private. we have made it clear that market accreditation can only be done under public responsibility. and we have strengthened the responsibility of individual states. i think that is a very important step. market surveillance is also, of course, the most essential prerequisite for establishing and maintaining product safety in the european union. when we discuss the strengthening of directives and regulations, we should always be clear that a directive or a regulation is only as strong as the instruments which ultimately control compliance, that is, market surveillance in the member states. the member states have been given a greater responsibility to strengthen, finance and staff market surveillance. i think that is a very important condition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's trade mark is protected. another important point is the toolbox, for which mrs schaldemose was mainly responsible. we now have a toolbox with the horizontal decision for future directives which will ensure that there is more legal coherence, where it is very important that there is clear, unambiguous coherence in the issue of ce marking in particular, but also in the position of importers in the chain of trade. we have strengthened the responsibility of importers throughout the european union. this was also a very important step forward. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we also have broad support in all the groups. i now come to thank the slovenian presidency of the council. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective for the period 2007-13. i would like to thank in particular the commission and the secretariat of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. without it we would certainly not have been able to conclude on time and really achieve a compromise for the first reading.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would of course have started by thanking the rapporteurs and the colleagues who have worked on this difficult dossier, but i would like to do it the other way round. i do not wish to express my thanks to mr bloom, because he has not contributed anything constructive to this dossier, either in terms of content or in his speech. in this respect, it has failed in its own objective of relieving the european citizens of some of their difficulties. however, i hope you will allow me to offer my friend malcolm harbour, after i did last night, a warm birthday wish. whether this file will be a gift remains to be seen. it will be interesting to see how the member states implement the decisions we have now taken together with the council. i would also like to thank you, mr vizjak, we talked about this in slovenia, and thank you, commissioner verheugen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the principle of reversal of the burden of proof in the non-harmonised area is a principle which will make life easier for small and mediumsized enterprises in particular in the internal market, without any bureaucracy. i hope all the member states have understood what they are getting themselves into here. it is no longer the small and mediumsized enterprises or the producers of products who have to ask the member states whether they can import them, but it is the member states who will have to prove that all the rules they have adopted are necessary and proportionate. i can assure you that some member states will have a bad awakening here. but it is a positive signal for the single market, and a positive signal also for the small and mediumsized enterprises in the single market. i also thank mrs mccarthy and mr fourtou very much for pointing out that the ce marking and the debate on the importance of the ce marking have not been the subject of this parliament's new approach since the framework legislation, but that in fact in all the directives that have been discussed in the field of the ce marking in recent years we have repeatedly asked ourselves whether the ce marking, which is a mere marking for the market surveillance authorities, really signals to the consumer what he wants when he buys a product. of course, there are great difficulties in distinguishing between consumer goods and industrial goods. we are aware, of course, that we need a solution that is both low-bureaucratic and low-cost. but we are very grateful, mr verheugen, that you are willing to have the study prepared, which we as a committee unanimously want. we hope that this study will provide important indications that the ce marking in its present form may not provide the consumer with all the information he needs.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european commission proposed this new package of measures for goods on 14 february, which was supposed to give new impetus to trade in the single market. the fact that we are able to reach a conclusion today after just over a year, in my view, shows that the team that worked on this has worked very quickly and efficiently. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet clear whether the commission will take a decision on the matter. i am surprised, in the context of the whole debate, at the unlikely number of obstacles to the single market, even though the single market has been in place since 1992 by jacques delors. it is astonishing how real the difficulties of smes in entering the market in other eu member states are. this package includes measures affecting 22 industrial sectors with a market volume of approximately eur 1 500 billion per year. we have achieved that the market surveillance system will be optimized in the future according to uniform criteria, and this is necessary. if the market is open, then there must be market surveillance systems. it is easier to detect and secure dangerous goods and to prosecute and punish fraudulent acts. in future, as i said, not only the manufacturers but also the importers will be held responsible, and not just on paper, because there will also be corresponding liability with penalties for non-compliance. this market surveillance is also a great advantage for the operators operating so far, since it makes it much easier to identify the black sheep among manufacturers and importers. i was surprised to see that there was so far little transparency between customs and market surveillance authorities. this secrecy and the supposed protection of corporate interests will end. i am glad that parliament has taken its own path in relation to the ce marking. we have not followed the hasty demands of consumer associations for the abolition of the ce marking, nor the commission's call for unjustified upgrading. that wasn't the right way. we have now, i believe, decided on the optimal path for the future. parliament has also insisted, despite the opposition of some groups, that the national security signs - not only the german one but also others - should be retained until we have found an optimal alternative. i am also proud, as a social democrat, that we have this wording not only in the resolution but also in the regulation. it was a bit controversial until the last second, but we managed to ensure that the accreditation bodies were not allowed to compete with each other and that the public service mission was maintained as a very special feature as before. i think there was a match here, too. it was important for all of us that there should be more transparency. it is astonishing how little cooperation there is, and i believe that this package will create the possibility for the authorities to work together better. i would like to conclude by saying that, in the overall package, both businesses and citizens in europe have won. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in the commercial field, this could rightly be called a win-win situation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the fact that we can adopt the package of goods at first reading is a sign of the excellent cooperation here in the european parliament, but also with the council. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft legislation. the package of goods is designed to remove barriers to trade caused by the different technical regulations in the member states. at the same time, we guarantee the quality of the products on the european market. it ensures that products that do not comply with eu law or are unsafe are withdrawn from the market at an early stage or do not enter the market at all. dangerous products must be notified to the commission without delay so that they can be withdrawn from the market in all countries. the regulation also aims to improve cooperation with third countries, such as china. for example, through programmes and the exchange of technical know-how. the new rules will ensure that market surveillance and controls are more efficient throughout europe. because that's what really matters! in all the discussions and negotiations, our main focus was on the consumer. the ce marking, for example, indicates that the manufacturer has complied with the european requirements for a product. but not only the manufacturer but also the importer is now more obliged to do so. in particular, counterfeiting or misleading signs are prohibited and should also be subject to criminal prosecution in the member states. all this protects the consumer, but also the honest businessman who follows all the rules. a major success is that we can continue to maintain proven national safety signs such as the german gs sign. consumers know these signs and trust them. we will be adopting on thursday a regulation which will promote trade in goods in the single market in the best sense of the word, while at the same time - and this is so important - protecting consumers through better controls.
the chairman of the council. - ladies and gentlemen, let me share with you some final thoughts on the importance of the agreement that has already been reached on three acts that will make a significant contribution to improving the functioning of the internal market. i'm sure lord ayral would be very pleased today. we miss him very much. after the extensive work carried out by our german and portuguese colleagues on the council side in front of slovenia, the slovenian presidency was left with the task of finalising the coordination between the institutions of the european union. i'm pleased with the great cooperation of all of you that we've been able to accomplish this task, some would say a difficult task, relatively efficiently and quickly. it is not even four years since our accession to the european union that we have taken up the great challenge of assuming the presidency, which also means, of course, that we have a great responsibility. we are therefore all the more pleased to have been able to contribute to the completion of this great task, which is of importance to all the countries of the european union. i believe that the main thing that will be achieved by the implementation of the package is that protectionism will be eliminated in certain markets within the european union, and that this will certainly strengthen the competitiveness of the economy in those markets. in fact, i consider that protectionism is the main enemy of the development of competition and of the competitiveness of economic operators on those markets. the european parliament has also called for the introduction of a european standardisation system for the quality of foodstuffs, which will be based on the principles of the european food safety authority (efsa) and the european food safety authority (efsa). the end result will be a more business-friendly environment, especially for smes. what is even more important for our citizens is that there will certainly be a high level of product safety on the european union market. so i am confident that this package will be an important first step in our efforts to do more. there has been a lot of talk here today about these steps forward and these are also important challenges that will mark our work in the future.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. let me say a few words about the direct economic impact. it is true that the rules on mutual recognition apply to 21% of all european industrial production, which is a very large amount indeed. and if this system of mutual recognition were to work perfectly, i.e. if it were to be applied fully and everywhere, then we would have an increase in european gross domestic product of 1.8%, i.e. already on a macroeconomic scale. the opposite is also true: if mutual recognition does not work, we estimate that the potential of the internal market is reduced by about 10%, which means that the fact that mutual recognition is not practised actually costs about eur 150 billion a year. mrs roithová asked a question about the registration of the ce mark. we were able to do this last year because it required a change in european law. the process is underway, and i expect that today's decisions will help us to accelerate it. it is not in our hands alone, but we are doing everything we can to complete this registration as quickly as possible. mr csibi mentioned - and with a critical tone - that i had already pointed out last year that there could be no 100% safety of products. i would like to say again, very specifically: there really is no such thing as a 100% product safety. even if we have all our products certified by an independent third party, this does not mean that every single part of a series can be tested. the problem is not that the prototype is being tested, but that the problems arise in normal production. even in the areas where we have the most stringent regulations in terms of product safety, like prescription drugs or cars, there are always production errors and there are always recalls. the idea of telling the consumer that there can be a 100% safety is an illusion. that is why we must - and this is the only way we have - insist that all those who are responsible in the chain are also fully held accountable. this starts with the suppliers, then the manufacturer, and if it is an imported product, the importer. and that is also the answer to mr purvis's question: what we are doing with the new regulations is to make it clear that an importer in europe is responsible for ensuring that the products he imports are safe and that where standards exist they also meet those standards. this means that the european importer assumes responsibility for the safety of a product coming from a third country and that the person who suffers damage from a dangerous or defective product does not have to look for any manufacturer in any country far outside the european union but keeps his claim to the european importer. i am sure that this is a regulation which will have a considerable practical impact. so much for the questions that have been asked. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you once again for the positive and constructive spirit of this debate. if malcolm harbour is still around, i tell him, if it were up to me, he could have a birthday any day, if his birthday is decorated with such beautiful results. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. there was so much consensus that i can only thank you for the discussion and do not want to repeat anything. the one or two items that were controversial had no substance, and so i will not go into them. i would like to put a little more light on the harmony that has been evident here today. i think we're going to get some good legislation. but the problem has been that in recent years it has been less a matter of legislation than of implementation in the member states. it is not only that, as in the mattel case, millions of toys have had to be withdrawn from the market, but that market surveillance simply does not work in the european union when such delays occur. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. i therefore appeal to the member states to put into practice what is being decided here and what is already in place in the field of market surveillance for the safety of consumers. a final note of a very personal nature: we thanked a lot of people today. i have had a wonderful experience at work, with fantastic colleagues from the secretariat of our committee on the internal market. we as members of parliament can only congratulate them. without them we could not have done this work. i would like to thank in particular peter traung and luca visaggio.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission, i would like to give the following explanation. in proposing postponement of entry into force of this directive, the commission was reacting responsibly to new scientific evidence – i repeat, new scientific evidence – namely a study commissioned by the government of the united kingdom and published in june 2007. this new scientific evidence showed that the potential entry into force of the directive in its present form in april 2008 would have a major unintended detrimental effect on the practice of magnetic resonance imaging (mri), the best performing and safest imaging technology in contemporary medicine. i would like to add, because i am responsible for that sector, that, without this technology, thousands of patients in the european union would not get the best possible treatment. i would also like to add that our producers are world leaders in this sector. mr andersson mentioned the question of consultation. i would like to say that the workers’ representatives have been fully informed and were involved in the discussions that took place with the social partners before the adoption of the commission proposal. the difficulties which may arise from the implementation of the current directive and the future intentions of the commission were highlighted and discussed at the level of the advisory committee on safety and health at work created by the council. this advisory committee includes three full members for each member state, the national governments, trade unions and employers’ organisations.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the three codifications are as follows: it is noted that the proposals of the three legal services of parliament, the commission and the council are to be voted on. the council has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. apart from these votes, which i support, i would like to point out that we are dealing here with matters which should not be dealt with by the european parliament. it is not a matter of civic duty, but it is ridiculous in the eyes of our citizens to regulate things like the installation of lighting and light signalling devices on wheeled agricultural and forestry tractors. (applause from the centre) it would be much more sensible to adopt a directive on tractors containing general requirements and protective provisions. the details could then be specified in standards. in europe, there is the european committee for standardisation (cen) based in brussels, and there is cenelec, also in brussels. cen and cenelec are the standards organization of thirty countries, including all eu and efta countries. this principle of general directives referring to european standards already exists in more than 25 other sectors. why shouldn't we use that for tractors? i think that our commissioner, mr verheugen, who is here, agrees with me. we want better regulation, and we as parliamentarians should set a good example. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the debate on the future of europe with the swedish prime minister, a member of the european council. i am not going to go into detail. i would like to welcome you all to this special session. but i would like to extend a very warm welcome to the prime minister of sweden, mr fredrik reinfeldt: välkommen till europaparlamentet! welcome to the club. (applause from the centre) it is a great pleasure for me and for all of us to welcome you, mr prime minister reinfeldt, to the european parliament for the first time today to discuss the future of the european union with you. i see now in the gallery of the european parliament the former prime minister of bulgaria, simeon sakskoburggotski. welcome to the european parliament! the treaty signed in lisbon on 13 december 2007 is setting the european union on a new course. after many years of debate, we have finally got a treaty that is worthy of the enlarged european union and that enables it to respond successfully to the expectations of its citizens through more democratic procedures. the new treaty does not only provide for more transparency in the union's activities, which has always been a particular concern of sweden. the fight against climate change is also becoming a new objective for the european union - an area in which sweden is already very successful. your country, mr prime minister, can rightly be proud of its european leadership in the use of renewable energies! we must take the fight against climate change forward as a united european union, so that we can take a leading role on a global scale. i have just seen at the united nations last week how great the expectations of the united nations are, not only of the european union but also of the european parliament as a legislator. the lisbon treaty gives us the tools to tackle the important objectives for our future and to implement the necessary reforms swiftly. the european parliament shares your view, mr prime minister, that the new treaty should enter into force by 1 january 2009. the european parliament therefore welcomes the announcement by the swedish parliament, the riksdag, that it intends to ratify the new treaty by november 2008. if the ratification process can be successfully completed in all 27 member states in a timely manner, the swedish presidency will focus in the second half of 2009 on the important challenges of the future in a new institutional framework. sweden will be at the forefront of a new era of european community. together we can begin enhanced cooperation on the basis of the new treaty, with a newly elected european parliament, a new commission and sweden as the presidency. whether it is energy security, climate change, the further development of the union's northern dimension or the baltic sea strategy, we expect sweden to provide a major impetus. we are therefore particularly looking forward to your comments on the future shape of the european union. mr president, i would ask you to address the european parliament.
prime minister of sweden, member of the european council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has been working. it is a very great honor for me to stand here today. it is correctly described that i have not been here before in this capacity. i have not been in this chamber either, but as a young politician i was down in strasbourg, in the european parliament, dreaming of seeing my country there, fully represented. i know a little bit about dreaming up these premises, something i'm sure i share with many here today. it is therefore a great honour to be able to present to this house some of the reflections on european issues. it was visionary politicians who, after the second world war, understood that the only way to secure peace was to link the countries of europe together in a european cooperation. as then, so today's european cooperation must be guided by a clear vision. we need to ask the fundamental questions: where do we want to go and how do we get there? our world is changing rapidly, and we are changing with it. we are becoming more and more interdependent, and so you have to know what the basic principle is. our model of european cooperation must be so strong that neither fanatical nationalism nor religious fanaticism can become a threat to peace and stability in europe. we should not be afraid of a strong europe, but of a weak europe. a strong europe takes on greater responsibility for global problems. a strong europe combines economic growth with climate-friendly policies. a strong europe looks after the interests of its citizens. a united europe, which is important to highlight on a day like today, dares to give kosovo a clear european perspective. the swedish government believes in europe's potential. sweden, as we have said, should clearly and unambiguously belong to the core of european cooperation. since the current swedish government took office in autumn 2006, we have also seen the swedish people's support for the eu grow. to those who say it's all about luck, i say: you get lucky the more you practice. and we have done so, i might add, including in my party, which already in 1962 in a local election went to the polls on the theme: yes to europe. it took 33 years before we became full members. it seems that today we can breathe a sigh of relief after years of tough treaty negotiations. chancellor merkel did a fantastic job of resolving this issue. a big thank you goes also to prime minister sócrates, who skillfully brought the treaty to fruition. the lisbon treaty creates better conditions for more open, effective and dynamic european cooperation, but above all it opens up new opportunities to discuss important issues for the future: climate and energy, jobs and economic growth, demography, migration and the role of the eu on the international stage. i shall say a few words on each of these subjects. the starting point is to work for a modern europe, from the perspective of the citizens. we all aim for the treaty to enter into force on 1 january 2009. as mentioned by the president, sweden intends to ratify the treaty in autumn 2008. in a year and a half, sweden will assume the presidency of the european union. it will be an interesting presidency with a newly elected european parliament, a new commission and the new leadership positions resulting from the lisbon treaty. i look forward to working closely with the european parliament on all this. some of the main issues during the swedish presidency will be climate and energy, the hague programme, jobs and economic growth, the baltic sea issues and the eu as a global actor. we're already on the move, making intensive preparations. we also need to be prepared in case something unexpected happens. in other words, there must be a great deal of flexibility and the ability to adapt to the prevailing situation which may, after all, affect the process. climate and energy issues are one of the major societal challenges of our time. we have a great responsibility to future generations to ensure that we succeed in formulating a policy for long-term sustainable development. together we must fight to reach an international agreement at the un summit in copenhagen in december 2009. the eu has taken the lead with the historic decisions taken at last year's spring summit. but the eu cannot shoulder this responsibility alone. it will require close cooperation with a wide range of countries, including india, japan, china, russia and the united states. estimates show that the world's total energy demand is not declining but is projected to increase by 50 percent by 2030. the key to tackling climate change, of course, lies in how we deal with this supposedly increased energy demand. first, we have to think: how can we become better at saving and being more efficient? but the climate challenge also requires a new political approach. we need to dispel the myth that growth is the enemy of the environment. sweden is a living example of the opposite. since 1990, the beginning of the kyoto year, our economy has grown by 44 percent while greenhouse gas emissions have decreased by nine percent. we have invested in research and new technologies, along with a review of taxation and regulations. it has proved open to a development where the environment becomes a lever for both new businesses and new jobs. i am convinced that we can achieve the goals of the eu's climate and energy package, but this requires the introduction and use of the right tools that drive our societies and our businesses to make the right choices. the costs of polluting our environment must be high, and the rewards of choosing the zero-carbon solutions interesting. as many have pointed out, the green technology already exists. governments have a great responsibility for the transformation that must be carried out, but so do citizens. we have to see it as a kind of social contract between citizens and governments to promote environmentally friendly alternatives. this will increase competition in favour of a more environmentally friendly society. we all benefit. in the context of the lisbon strategy, the united states has been the world's largest economy for more than a century. now there are new players that are affecting the global economy. the economies of india and china are growing so fast that it's crashing. globalisation has brought positive developments in many parts of the world. globalisation democratizes and clarifies the distinction between open and closed societies, but it also increases competition. the policies that provided jobs, security and prosperity yesterday must be constantly changed if we are to succeed tomorrow. today, one third of europe's working population is outside the labour market. this is an untenable situation. we must increase the supply of labour and combat exclusion. through reforms of national labour markets. by investing in education and knowledge. as economic integration within the union and with the rest of the world increases, the successes and failures of national reform efforts, which also exist, are no longer just an internal matter but in fact concern us all. our future prosperity in europe depends to a large extent on how we, the member states, work together to create better conditions for taking advantage of the opportunities and challenges that come with globalisation. it is also about how we tackle demographic change and the transnational environmental challenges. progressive energy and environment policies within the union are a prerequisite for long-term sustainable growth and thus prosperity in europe, but they are also an important factor for our future competitiveness. with the lisbon strategy for sustainable growth and jobs, the eu has created the means to meet these challenges. the strategy is there. unfortunately, we have been too far behind in implementing it. let us join forces to strengthen the eu's global competitiveness through continued structural reforms, investment in research and in paving the way for new technologies. let us seriously complete the single market and create a more innovative business climate in europe. let us make sure that work always pays off. of course, much remains to be done both at national and community level. i just need to say the words patent and working time directive and you'll all understand what i mean. we must complete the doha round of the wto. this would be a strong impetus to a recovery of the world economy. we need an open world trading system and continued liberalisation if we are to increase europe's competitiveness in the spirit of the lisbon strategy. at the same time, many people know that protectionist winds are blowing through europe. we must stand up to them. protectionism is not the answer. in the long run, it affects those it was meant to protect. but i want to point out that this is urgent. the window of opportunity in the wto is closing. when we talk about the lisbon strategy, it is also important that we do not just complain like the donkey in the nalle puh. let us also pause and look back at the period that has actually elapsed. we also see the significant progress and achievements that have actually been made, which have made the lisbon process a functioning process since 2005, a process that has strengthened the commitments of the member states and driven implementation and results. much of this has been achieved thanks to the commission's determined work and president barroso's strong personal commitment to these issues. but i would also like to thank the european parliament for its very constructive role. how do we find the best way to meet future challenges? how do we collectively ensure long-term prosperity in europe through sustainable growth and full employment that will enable europe to compete effectively in the global arena? i see the swedish presidency in autumn 2009 as an excellent time to start and to carry on the discussion on a future european strategy for sustainable growth and employment also in the next decade. a few words about the eu budget. we're saying it's long past its expiration date. the budget should be the main instrument for achieving the union's objectives. it should also better reflect the objectives. today, 40% of the budget goes to agricultural aid, to the sector which accounts for 2% of employment in europe. it doesn't make sense. what if we instead increased the eu's investment in research and development, the fight against organised crime, environmental issues and external relations? what if we also dared to have a proper discussion about what should be financed at eu level and what should be financed at national level? europe is facing a demographic development with a rapidly ageing population, a development that will put our welfare systems under increasing pressure in the coming years. i can only paint the picture of how quickly this has changed sweden. in 1913, almost 100 years ago, sweden introduced a retirement age of 67. then you should be aware that the average life expectancy in sweden at that time was around 56 years. the truth was that the pension system was for the few who managed to survive the years in the work force and a few years after that. most of them worked and died. and worked from a young age. now, while we have seen a real decline in the retirement age, we have also seen a development where the average age in sweden is now 80 years. we have gone from a situation where we worked almost all our lives to the fact that the swede who is now born can see a life ahead of him where he may only work half his life. a remarkable development in just a few generations. but it leads to fewer and fewer people supporting more and more people. this, together with a significant degree of exclusion from the labour market, reinforces the need for job-creating policies. more people need to be in work to maintain a good standard of living in the face of these challenges. more people have to work for longer periods of their lives as we do. the growing proportion of older people in europe is not matched by those who will be of working age. this also partially addresses questions of migration. properly handled, it can be an important and indeed necessary piece of the puzzle in maintaining a well-being worthy of the name. remember that all these newcomers who are positive, expectant and eager to do the right thing are being treated with this positive energy. we must create the political conditions for people who have sought to come to europe, conditions which will enable them to enter the labour market quickly. migration has become an increasingly pressing issue for many member states, but i would say that control measures and readmission agreements must never be the only answer to the challenges posed by increased migration. anyone who thinks that strengthening borders is enough to solve the many issues of migration is making it too easy for themselves. a broader approach is needed both for the eu and for the countries of origin. sweden supports the ambitious objective of having a common european asylum system in place by 2010. success will require intensive work on this very issue. sweden also sees it as a priority to bring together the eu's external relations and to increase the coherence between migration on the one hand and development policy on the other. secondly, we must remember that only by addressing the causes of migration in poverty and oppression in the long term can we achieve truly good results. a global approach is needed, not least in the context of the un high-level dialogue on migration. the eu has an important role to play in giving this thinking more substance, not least in the form of broad and partnership-based cooperation with the african countries concerned. we want to work for an ambitious and forward-looking programme for the years 2010 to 2014 to replace the hague programme. we attach great importance to the active participation of the european parliament in this process. international terrorism is one of the greatest global threats to our open societies. as terrorist networks grow, we see more and more individuals acting independently and terrorist attacks becoming less predictable. organised crime is a growing problem in europe. it is becoming increasingly difficult for individual countries to combat serious international organised crime on their own. much of organised crime often originates outside the eu. the lisbon treaty now gives us new tools in the fight against terrorism and other crossborder crime. the european parliament will play an important role in this. there will be a process of approximation of legislation which will continue. the possibilities for recognising each other's judgments must continue to develop. the eu authorities europol and eurojust will be strengthened and the exchange of information between national police authorities will be improved. at the same time - and this is important to remember - there must be a balance of effort. as we strengthen law enforcement efforts, we must also strengthen the rights of the individual. we are relying on the work of the european parliament in this area. it is important that we agree at eu level to strengthen the certainty of justice in criminal proceedings and in the rights of victims. i want to see a europe that emerges as the voice of peace and reconciliation, and that is also present in the war-torn and conflict-ridden parts of the world, in africa, in asia and in latin america, but of course also here in europe. sweden has initiated a broad discussion on how we are going to proceed with the common european security strategy. in 2009 we will work hard to get the european external action service in place. helping to resolve the conflicts in the middle east must be one of the eu's main tasks in the coming years. a future solution between israelis and palestinians must be based on a two-state solution in which both parties can live within secure and recognised borders. we need a deeper dialogue with the muslim world. an important purpose would be to build up greater trust, respect and understanding between what we call the west and the muslim world. we are seeking closer relations with russia in all areas of social life. we hope that the remaining obstacles to its membership of the wto can be overcome. it is in our interest that russia develops into a modern, prosperous and democratic state. unfortunately, the more authoritarian trends of recent years point in a different direction. we are concerned about further developments in this direction. the situation in the western balkans remains one of europe's most difficult and most challenging. we will be deeply involved in helping the state-building process in kosovo for a long time to come. the challenges we face should not be underestimated. the economic and social situation in kosovo is very difficult. the rule of law is a long way off. state building takes time but we must be prepared to be there to help. it's our responsibility. our commitment is to the region as a whole. especially in these days, it's important to emphasize. european crisis management will be one of the most important issues in european foreign and security policy in the future. our country contributes within its means to playing a driving role in the further development of the european security and defence policy. sweden has participated in most of the operations initiated by the eu. we are now ready to participate in the eu operation in chad. it's actually closer to minsk from stockholm than to the northernmost parts of my country. belarus is the last dictatorship in europe. it is our duty to do more to support the democratic forces in this country. the development of the baltic sea region is a european concern. eight of the nine countries around the baltic sea are now members of the eu. nearly a quarter of eu citizens - some 100 million people - are affected by the sensitive environment of the baltic sea. this requires a concerted european approach. i hope that the baltic sea strategy, which the commission has been asked to draw up for the swedish presidency in 2009, will respond to the challenges facing the region. the strategy can be a leading example of how we in the enlarged eu are addressing challenges linked to specific regions in order to strengthen the eu as a whole in the long term. i would like to conclude by saying a few words about enlargement. as you all know, this is a matter which is of great concern to the swedish government and the swedish people. enlargement has been one of the eu's greatest challenges, but also its greatest opportunity. for those who travel through countries that have joined the eu in recent years, it is striking to see the development and the hope for the future. unfortunately, there are more and more voices against enlargement. then let me be clear. the stupidest thing we can do is forget what we were supposed to do. why the european tank was awakened. without enlargement, europe would not be what it is today. without further enlargement, we risk instability on our own continent. enlargement is our most important strategic tool for spreading the values on which european cooperation is based. we have torn down a wall in europe. now we're not going to build another one against turkey or other european countries. today we know that there was so much more that could only be done or done better by working together in europe and globally. let us never take european cooperation for granted, because we need a strong europe, where we dare to aim even higher with good self-confidence. thank you for your attention. i look forward to seeing you together again in the summer when our part of the rotating presidency begins.
thank you, prime minister. we are also pleased that the commission is represented by mrs wallström. we're going to debate this.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not mr president, i am very pleased to welcome you to strasbourg. i do not know whether mrs malmström is as thrilled as you are that she had to come to strasbourg with you, but perhaps we can discuss this at another time. you made a good speech, mr. prime minister. i also think you made a very smart speech. in your speech you pointed out that the future of europe can only be imagined if we relate europe to the challenges that this continent is facing in the world. the world climate is not a european climate debate, but a global climate debate. that's right, i did. the question of world trade and the role of the european union must not be confined to the debate on the single market, but must describe what this enormous single market, with its enormous economic power, can contribute to the welfare of the world, not only in europe but also in other continents of the earth. because prosperity in other continents of this earth and with that we have reached a third point that you have mentioned serves world peace. europe must be able to contribute to world peace as a force for peace, having stabilised peace at home. europe is not the teacher, but europe can be an offer. supranational integration, integration across the dividing lines of religion, across the dividing lines of ethnic strife, across the dividing lines of a bloody past, by abandoning nationalism and choosing the supranational approach, leads to ever greater prosperity, leads to ever greater peace. that is why the future of europe depends on the ability of leaders like you to say: at the decisive moment, i am prepared to give up a piece of national sovereignty in order to be part of a transnational framework, which is the framework that can lead to more prosperity in the world and thus to more peace for us in our country. that is the logic you have been presenting here today. i like that. it is a different logic from that of the ultra-nationalists who will be here tomorrow, who will tell us all the time that we need more nationalism. more nationalism means more war. that has to be said in the clearest possible terms. that is why the message you have presented here is a good one. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) the ones who respond are the ones i've been talking to! so my message got through! mr president, what i have missed is the social europe. someone told me you have to be careful with reinfeldt. it's almost a sozi. at least that's how you behaved during the swedish election campaign. well, the swedish people have been informed fairly quickly about the real approaches of your government. but they did not say a word about social europe. now, i know you think that social policy is subsidiary. you're right about that. but then i have to tell you: if the single market of the european union which you want to develop gives people in sweden the impression that it threatens their social standards at home, they will reject this single market. then your international trade concept is worthless. they must see that the european internal market must be developed, but it must be developed in parallel with a european social model. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore like to give you some good advice, mr reinfeldt: yes, on the world climate. yes, with world trade. yes, in the international peacekeeping. but it is also a social europe. but since i know you're a man of learning, i'm pretty sure you'll improve on that a little bit. i am very pleased to hear a remark you made about turkey, mr reinfeldt. you're a just man, like our president. he had granted my colleague doyle an extra minute and a half. i think that the commission has a duty to do so, and i think that it is a duty to do so. i would like to ask you to tell your colleague sarkozy that. because what's wrong is that people with different messages are constantly appearing in the european union. if i were the turkish prime minister, i too would be amazed. mr reinfeldt goes to the european parliament and says: 'don't close the scots. it is a matter of the european parliament. the next president of the council, who will be here after mr janša, will say the opposite. i'm pretty sure you did. mr sarkozy has told us here in parliament that turkey will not join the european union with me. this question cannot waver like that. this needs to be cleared up. there is a clear european union strategy for turkey's accession. then you have to stand by those statements. - i know. you have spoken clearly today and i hope mr sarkozy will do the same. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i like that. there are some who believe that the next person to appear here will be the permanent president of the council, who will then also present all the programmes of all the rotating presidencies, so mr blair or mr juncker or whoever is acting, will then be the one who will present the programme of your government, which you will define in stockholm. the european parliament is therefore expecting you to take part in the rotating presidency of the council next year with your programme, which will then include social europe.
- thank you very much for your questions and comments. i have no way of doing all these questions justice. thank you very much for your patience with the vast amount of swedish you have been given to listen to because of all the questions that have been asked here. the answers i have are very much bound up with my belief that agreements should be kept, something that will be recurrent. i said that i have a strong belief in europe. i have also expressed my strong confidence in the swedish labour market model, which has been built around our swedish collective agreements, on several occasions in sweden. in sweden we have partly taken a different path from many other european countries, which have put more emphasis on legislation where we have put more emphasis on social responsibility. we believe that the law of the sea does not diminish this swedish model, but that it definitely raises some questions about parts of swedish legislation. we are cautiously proceeding with the social partners to see how to make changes in the swedish labour market model, but not with the aim of removing or fundamentally changing how it works. we intend to continue to respect that line of argument and hope to bring it to the fore, and i hope that it will not be misunderstood as anything else when discussed around europe. it says here that the single market is not enough. one criticism is that the single market is not fully functioning. it is a criticism i often hear from businessmen and others that we talk about a single market but that free movement is not so free. my government is absolutely working from the point of view of reducing exclusion, creating the basis for self-determination through one's own work and ensuring that more people work. more people in work means more resources to build welfare solutions for people who are unable to work. in this way, i think that the path between work and welfare is linked in the policy being pursued in sweden. democracy has reappeared in different views here. i think that democracy is being carried out here in a very good way by its elected representatives. it's not that it's a bad form of democracy. i think that many of you here today have represented your constituents in a good way, and i am prepared to do so in various ways. democracy is capable of making decisions and should be. our swedish experience of the referendum, i would point out, is of a very mixed character. sometimes it's been clear what we're asking and getting answers to. we have sometimes asked a question and received a different answer and spent many years discussing what the swedish people actually answered. i know that there are similar experiences in some other countries. the type of treaty based on several changes that we are now discussing and that we have decided on before in the history of europe, without referendums, we are ready to decide on within the framework of representative democracy. i think it's a great way to show how a living democracy should work. a few brief answers on the gas pipeline which has been mentioned by several. we want to respect the agreements and legislation as they stand, that is to say, in accordance with international conventions and swedish legislation, we are testing the possibilities of testing this gas pipeline. we have been able to establish that the proposal we have received is inadequate. that's how we sent it back. the question will come up again. i cannot at present assess to what extent we can influence this mainly with swedish environmental legislation. but it will be our starting point that we do it in a thorough way. we have many opinions on whether you, ladies and gentlemen, should move back and forth between parliaments, but we are also aware of how agreements work. all the member states have a say, a kind of veto, in the matter, and you all know that, whoever is asking these questions. we respect that, although we, like a lot of our constituents, are questioning the success of the way things are moving around here. we are now seeing the emergence of environmentally friendly cars in sweden to a degree that almost no one else can demonstrate. we have set up a special eco-car premium which is very stimulating, which has led to the fact that we now have a situation where over 30 per cent of new cars sold in sweden are eco-cars. this is a development which will no doubt be further strengthened. euron's been asking a lot of people. here too we are respecting agreements in the sense that we have the result of a referendum by the swedish people in 2003. we have said that we follow swedish opinion. if the swedish people change their minds, the issue may be brought back into the fold. i would also point out that sweden, which lives close to finland with its euro, is naturally also wondering what will happen in denmark if denmark once again tries to remove its so-called opt-out from the euro in the autumn. the euro will then become a much more present currency in the vicinity of sweden, and possibly this will affect the swedish people. some of you mentioned that it's unclear what role i'll be returning to. the first time it is not so unclear, because it is already summer to be presenting the 18-month programme of the french, czech and swedish presidencies. the role of the rotating presidency is, of course, an open question. we shall have many views on this. i believe very much in a european union that is rooted in its different parts of europe. i therefore believe that the rotating presidency will also have a clear role in the future, alongside the elected president who is coming in through the new treaty. thank you very much for your valuable comments and valuable questions.
i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. this was the last debate on the future of europe in the framework of this concept. the debate is closed.
the southern europeans must also be involved. if they're not there, i can't call them. (interruption of the debate) i have called mr varvitsiotis. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the year 2007, which is now some time in the past, was christened in climate policy as the year of knowledge about climate change. when you realize that the debate about global warming and sustainability strategies has been going on for about two decades, you realize how slow a policy pathway is to influence and how difficult it is to actually reverse policies. i have doubts whether we are serious about the paradigm shift and whether we are really ready to reorient ourselves and move away from a growth objective that is always based on quantity towards a growth objective that is based on quality. when we prepared the lisbon resolution for parliament - and i did so as co-rapporteur with mr lehne - we again had a dispute, not personally but between the political groups, on the question of energy policy and energy strategies. no wonder, because this is also a subject worth arguing about. the resolution now includes a term which does not adequately cover the wide range of ideas on sustainability. low carbon economy is what is now being offered as a formulaic compromise for this parliament. i think that this is a conflict between the motto 'keep on as before', which means to continue with the energy industry based on the old coal and nuclear energy mix, and a strategy which we would have liked to have, but which is very hard-line and says that we must reduce our consumption of resources. we must build an energy strategy on the two pillars of energy efficiency and saving and renewable energy. the term we have now introduced is a poor way of concealing the fact that there is still no decision to be made. i would like to say again that i do not believe that nuclear energy, which is a high-risk energy, or a return to a coal strategy will allow europe to take the lead that is being promised elsewhere in the world. but we'll discuss this further. i also believe, commissioner verheugen, that the guidelines in this area still need to be adjusted, because simply adding security of energy supply and renewable energies is not a change in strategy. this is something that needs to be reflected in measures and instruments in a completely different way. i believe, however, that the guidelines of the lisbon strategy must be changed not only in the environmental field but also in social policy. it is often said that over the last three years europe has seen growth and employment increase. but at the same time we have seen social marginalisation and an increase in precarious working conditions. in our view, the common objective of social integration and cohesion means, in plain english, that a worker in europe who works must be able to live on what he earns. i am therefore surprised at the disagreement between the groups in the preparation of the lisbon resolution on the question of whether it is right or wrong to agree on minimum wages in europe in sectors. i think we cannot avoid this and i would like to see more consensus on this. i would also like to see the term flexicurity not always interpreted by colleagues on the right side of the house in the sense of flexibility and concession to the socially weak, while the others continue to do business as they please. what is very important to me about the resolution which will be tabled for adoption tomorrow - and i say this to mrs figueiredo, because she has contributed a great deal to this - is that we have managed to put forward together proposals for new indicators to measure the success of lisbon, particularly with regard to the objective of improving the quality of life of citizens. the fact that income orientation, or this old, prominent indicator of the growth rate of national income, completely ignores the inequality in income growth shows that this indicator is not sufficient at all. it is also not enough, of course, if we really want to measure something like the improvement of the quality of life and the quality of the environment. i would be very pleased if the commission could respond to these references to environmental and social indicators.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the resolution prepared by the steering group has three main themes: the internal market. this is particularly concerned with the necessary closure of gaps in the internal market, i will just mention the keyword of the lack of a unified patent law or no internal market in the insurance sector; the labour market is mainly about the keyword 'security through flexibility'; the second part of the report, entitled 'the european union's strategy for the environment', focuses on the implementation of the strategy in the member states. we have deliberately chosen not to focus on energy and climate this time, partly because this has been the main topic for the past two years and because we have strategically achieved what we wanted to achieve with the resolutions, namely that the commission and the council should deal intensively with the issue. they do. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. in particular, we would point to the problems still existing in the field of impact assessment and red tape reduction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, a crucial point of disagreement remained: my group supports the integrated guidelines and, like the commission, believes that there is no need to amend the integrated guidelines at this stage. the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and it is hoping that the council will take them up. when we revived the lisbon strategy in 2005, everyone assumed that lisbon was merely the capital of the member state of portugal. but no one has linked the name to any specific strategy. unlike, say, kyoto, where kyoto is not just a city, but a global strategy. we have made considerable progress in the perception of the concept of lisbon in recent years. we support the commission's position that growth and employment are the core elements and that it is crucial that we move forward in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. that's the thing! 'we stand by the guidelines' sounds a bit dogmatic. for us, the socialist group, it is not so much a question of which document we support or do not support, but the central question is whether these guidelines are a response to the real economic situation, and the key question is whether this helps to meet the needs of the people in the european union. that's the central question of this debate, and so again, let's let the data speak. jean-claude juncker, as president of the eurogroup, has recently announced that growth will be slowing down, that it will no longer be 2.7%, but 1.6% or 1.7% or 1.8% in 2008. this is a clear warning sign, especially since we know that the horizon in the united states has been clouded since late 2007. at the same time, we have a forecast of inflation of 3.2%. this is loss of wealth, this is loss of real wages, this is loss of purchasing power. we must fear that stagnation and inflation can go hand in hand here, and that is a warning sign. at the same time, we know that poverty in the european union has not decreased over the past five years, but rather that more people are excluded from social prosperity. research and development is at a fairly stable level, but not at the 3% we need for the lisbon strategy, but just over half, at an average of 1.6%, 1.7% or 1.8% - far too low to play the role we want to play internationally. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i cannot stand on one side - as president of the commission, apparently - and ensure that nothing, absolutely nothing, is changed in the core text of these guidelines, and at the same time wish that the people in the member states of the european union, the entrepreneurs, the workers, those who play a role in the economic process, should feel that political leadership is taking place here. this contradiction cannot be resolved in this way. the commissioners present have given ample evidence of the changes we need. let us discuss where they should be placed. where are the products, where are the changes that will help people? the social democrats support an offensive strategy as presented in the documents of this parliament, but we want real answers that help the people.
the commission has already done so. the formulation and implementation of economic policy are and remain the responsibility of the member states. the lisbon strategy can only be implemented through targeted action in the member states. there is no european economic policy defined centrally in brussels. this is why the broad lines of economic policy are so important. they are the cornerstone of the coordination of member states' economic policies and provide a guideline to ensure that member states take the necessary reforms in the right direction and then stay on track. they embody the eu's basic economic principles: open markets, fair competition, innovative private enterprise without state control. unfortunately, the member states do not always and sometimes only timidly implement the integrated guidelines for growth and employment. it is particularly in facing the challenges of globalisation that the european union must stand by its basic principles. this is the only way to ensure europe's competitiveness in the long term. unfortunately, there are examples of what i would call creative isolation again. for example, the higher minimum wage introduced by deutsche post - for your information, mrs harms - keeps any competitor away from the officially liberalized market. the current turbulence in the financial markets also shows that the state is too quick to come to the rescue when difficulties arise. the rescue of private financial institutions such as northern rock in the uk or ikb in germany with taxpayer money is an unacceptable regulatory error. the profits of the banks remain with the shareholders and, through high bonuses, with a few employees, the losses are socialized. this approach undermines citizens' confidence in the social market economy system. it is the role of the state to support the market by providing a framework for legislation, but it is the role of the market to drive the economy forward and to ensure europe's competitiveness.
i have to say, madam president, the commissioner said that we have recently created more jobs. true, but these are mostly precarious jobs. you said, "the productivity gains have come". true, but the productivity growth has not been used to increase wages - what can you do? - nor has it been used to reinvest. they said: the rising gdp is also a sign that we are on the right track, that the lisbon strategy is right. i would like to say that, despite the three figures you have mentioned, the results have not been forthcoming. we have rising profits but no rising wages, we still have a supply-oriented economic policy rather than a demand-oriented one, we do not have sufficient domestic demand. that means that the problems we had five years ago, the problems we had three years ago with the lisbon strategy, we still have today! nothing has changed! then how can you say we're on the right track? what do we got? you also said that smes must be encouraged. i would ask you to go to your colleague mr mandelson. what did he write in the global europe strategy? he wrote in it: 'the aim is to open up markets to the large global corporations. it doesn't say anything about smes! there's nothing in there! we are making tax reforms in the member states which favour companies with share capital. you'll be exempt from taxes. the profits that are generated are not fed back into the economy. we say: workers must be flexible. you have to be willing to make less money. they've been doing it for years. if the profits explode, you could let them share. this is not happening. then they say again: "that's not the way to do it". the banks speculate mercilessly, and the profits of the big companies are invested very heavily as financial capital because there are higher profit margins, and not back into production. this is the wrong way to lisbon! if i want to have money, then i must also insist on more tax revenue as a european union or as a member state. i can only get it where there are enough taxes to collect. that would be the right approach to a lisbon strategy. a radical rethinking of economic policy. if we continue as you have suggested, we will not solve the problem in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it is true that the european economy is facing major problems. the crisis in world financial markets, rising energy and food prices, sluggish domestic demand due to wage dumping and social plunder, the expansion of precarious employment - all these are pressing problems that need to be tackled. but that is not the subject of this report. it is recalled that the increase in income should keep pace with the growth in productivity in the medium term. the report also calls for the continuation of the neoliberal structural reforms, the very reforms which are supposed to have produced the problems we are facing today. instead of creating jobs through public investment, the pressure on the employed and the unemployed is to be further increased, working hours are to be extended and the protection against dismissal is to be further eroded. instead of regulating financial markets and capital movements, we are left to watch helplessly as the current financial crisis continues to spread. and instead of ending the policy of liberalization which has contributed very substantially to price controls on the energy markets, privatization and deregulation are being pursued. our group will not agree to this report. the commission will not accept a report which promotes a neoliberal agenda, which tramples on social rights and which produces new crises. what we really need is a radically different economic policy, one in which the interests of the employed and the unemployed are put before the interests of corporate profits.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. money is part of the development of europe. so let me return to the financial situation, to the financial markets and the turbulence that we have seen so far. everyone knows the situation of many banks in europe - not to mention us banks - and the european central bank's great commitment to maintaining the functioning of financial markets. the adjustment of the basic approach by 2010 therefore naturally includes the necessary reinforced cooperation with all global players to better protect our european financial sector from further external attacks, as well as better rating rules with coordinated supervision with a high level of transparency and the restoration of the confidence of banks among themselves and of investors. why do we need to seek more dialogue with other global players, and in particular with the us? the us economy has grown by 4.2 trillion in value over the last seven years, but total credit has grown by 21.3 trillion. that's a debt ratio that's 350 percent over gdp. the monetary policy which has led to this enormous over-indebtedness is unfortunately to be continued. they're aggressively reducing us policy rates, pumping money into financial institutions. the consequences are progressive devaluation of money, thus reducing the purchasing power of households, and a stagnation which is difficult to control and which could have significant effects on europe. these monetary policies were the main cause of the last crisis. europe and all global players need to join forces to tackle the next wave of crisis early on, so that we are not overwhelmed by a real tsunami and so that many efforts to achieve the lisbon goals are not destroyed.
i'm not going to tell you. in the former monastery haindorf in north bohemia there is a polish-german-czech meeting centre, where all inscriptions and directions are in latin. could this not also be done in the buildings of the european institutions? secondly, could we not have a latin text for the european anthem which could be sung by all the member states together and then translated into their own languages by the individual member states, but whose common text would be in latin?
member of the commission. - as regards the european indicator of language proficiency, as i said and as you have already noted, only five languages will be targeted in the first phase. the programme is currently as follows: we are preparing a pilot project this year, with the aim of making all the preparations for this evaluation in 2009 and of having clear results on the situation of these five languages in 2010. as i said in my speech, the commission wants to extend this indicator to all the official languages. but it's too early to say when that expansion will be done. of course, we will have to see and analyse in detail what the results of the evaluation of the indicator will be in the five languages with which we are starting. on the other hand, as regards the second question that was put to me, the objective of the european commission is to defend linguistic diversity. in this respect, all the actions undertaken by the european commission aim to defend both the official languages and the other languages spoken in the european union. we have 23 official languages, we have over 60 regional languages, minority languages, less used languages. from this point of view, the steps we are taking are particularly directed at these languages, which we have called living languages. of course, there are different views on the european anthem. it is not for the european commission to decide on this matter.
member of the commission. − a network and three projects addressing minority languages were selected for funding under the lifelong learning programme in the 2007 call for proposals. key activity 2: foreign languages. the network to promote linguistic diversity coordinated by the welsh language committee covers the following languages: the following languages are used in the european union: basque, breton, catalan, cornish, east frisian, scottish welsh, north frisian, welsh, west frisian, slovak, ladin, galician, friulian, sardinian, estonian, irish, latvian, lithuanian, maltese, finnish and swedish. the european linguistic minority office is one of the partners in this 3-year project, which aims to facilitate the exchange of current good practice and the development of new and innovative ideas in the field of education and language planning in the context of regional, minority, indigenous, cross-border, smaller nation and minority languages. the 3 multiannual projects funded in 2007 include minority and world languages such as catalan, basque, sardinian, sicilian, irish, russian, arabic and hindi. priority will be given to projects targeting european languages with a smaller circulation for the period 2008-2010. in the context of the lifelong learning programme 2007-2013, all languages are eligible for funding, thus including german-speaking minorities.
commissioner, did i understand correctly that german-speaking minorities can only be supported from 2013? but it is true that there are real minorities, such as the germans in the czech republic or the poles in lithuania or the poles in the czech republic, and so on. if they have media or cultural projects, for example, they cannot be funded at the moment. or is this a misunderstanding?
the next item is the report by mr cem özdemir, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu strategy for central asia (a6-0503/2007) (2007/2102 (ini)).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would first like to take this opportunity to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their support and for their valuable suggestions for the report on central asia. i would also like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the afet secretariat and, of course, to the members of the group of the european people's party, who should not be forgotten and without whom this report would not have been possible. i would like to mention just a few: dag sourander, paolo bergamaschi, rosemary opacic, andrew woodcock, margaret françois and my colleague rana aydın. this evening we are dealing for the first time in the european parliament with the report on central asia. i think this is a special moment for this parliament because it expresses the importance we attach to the central asian region in our relations. central asia is becoming an increasingly important strategic partner for the european union. after years of neglect, the european union has recognised the need for a coherent strategy towards the five central asian republics of kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan, tajikistan, turkmenistan and uzbekistan. the five republics became members of the osce after the collapse of the soviet union, but they also undertook to adopt the values, standards and principles that we share within the osce. under the german presidency of the council, the european council adopted a common strategy for central asia on 20 and 21 june 2007. the central asia strategy offers the five countries to share experience and expertise in key areas such as good governance, rule of law, democratisation, human rights, education and training. the european union's dependence on external energy resources and the need for a diversified energy supply policy to guarantee energy security are a common interest of the european union and the central asian republics. we have common interests in this respect. however, when it comes to the supply of energy sources, we are talking about two countries in particular, namely turkmenistan and kazakhstan. uzbekistan and tajikistan, for example, as we have recently learned, have their own energy problems. kyrgyzstan is an energy-rich country when it comes to water, and we mentioned it deliberately. in this respect, we are following the proposal of the commission and the local embassies to set up a water and energy academy which will look at the subject together, also in terms of ecology and sustainability. it is also in the interest of the countries concerned to diversify their energy sources, because we cannot have any interest in further increasing our dependence on russia. partnership and cooperation agreements are important instruments of bilateral cooperation with states. the agreements with kazakhstan, kyrgyzstan and uzbekistan have already entered into force, while the agreement with tajikistan has not yet been ratified by all member states. we have not yet signed an agreement with turkmenistan. the reasons are well known. it is due to the isolation regime that prevailed in ashgabat until the end of 2006. we hope - and i assume i speak here on behalf of everyone - that a new beginning is taking place in turkmenistan, and we give the new government a thumbs up for continuing with democratic reforms. the road ahead, however - and this must be said at this point - is still a very long one. we welcome the first steps towards opening up that have been taken. we hope, however, that this is only the beginning of what is desirable. this report clearly sets out the objectives and priorities for relations with these five countries. it's about bringing together country-specific and regional approaches. it is about democracy and the rule of law, without overlooking human rights. we want clear benchmarks, defining indicators and targets so that our partners know what they are dealing with. i also hope that the commission and the council will continue to make clear their commitment to the release of political prisoners and the independence of the media, for example. and i hope that this report will encourage governments to take the necessary human rights measures and, above all, to release all human rights activists without any ifs and buts as soon as possible. we are clear: we will only achieve lasting stability in the region if this is accompanied by the development of civil society. without active civil society in a state of law, there will be no long-term stability. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to congratulate cem özdemir on his very successful report. i am not going to go into detail. the european union has been hesitant in its entry into the race for central asia, and has been a latecomer to this region after russia, china and the united states. the european union is not yet perceived as a global player in central asia. in particular, to reduce energy dependence on russia, an eu strategy for central asia was long overdue. it was initiated by the german presidency of the council. it's important that there's a follow-up now. unfortunately, it is becoming increasingly clear that the eu's external energy policy still lacks a common voice. we in europe have had to rely above all on diversification, common interests and solidarity in crisis situations. however, the eu's bilateral energy agreements with third parties have repeatedly called into question the european union's united position. but a common external energy policy is in the interest of the european union and its citizens. the energy supply, which is of vital importance to our citizens, must not, however, be the sole motive for the european union's relations with this region. we do not want to profit unilaterally from a strategy for central asia. this is where europe must distinguish itself from other players in the region. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the countries of central asia, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. the aim is to raise awareness of europe among the citizens of the region. but this must be done with caution, because the advice from the west could all too easily be misinterpreted as patronage or interference. the world is growing together outside the eu too, and we should rely on a constructive partnership with the central asian countries, a partnership which does not give the impression that europeans are looking out for their own interests, a partnership based on mutual benefit.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr cem özdemir, and all the shadow rapporteurs who have worked on this report. we are taking the right steps with this central asia strategy and this first wide-ranging debate in the european parliament to take forward the dialogue and all the challenges which you, commissioner, have mentioned and which are still ahead of us. but this strategy will be a long road in many small steps. the intensification of cooperation is to be welcomed. not as a one-way street, but as a trusting exchange. today's debate shows us that we have a broad backlog when it comes to central asia. the different countries of central asia have very different faces. we have very different needs. we want energy imports, but we also want security, and we want exports of democracy and human rights. we want to connect the two, and that's not easy. i have been a member of the delegation for relations with the countries of central asia since 1999 and i know the countries. i've learned from these people, and i know that these people have faces too, that they don't want to lose. we must be very careful and sometimes very specific. i would like to come to uzbekistan in this context. uzbekistan is taking important steps which we should expressly welcome. as of 1 january, the death penalty was abolished. i thank you for the oral amendment, mr rapporteur. the principle of habeas corpus, that is, the judicial order for detention, was also introduced. in may of this year we will have the second human rights dialogue with the commission. i'm confident that it will come to pass. this too is a real step in continuing what we have started. i would like to say that i will support the amendments tabled by the uen because i think they are right, because i think they are a step towards dialogue, and because we must rely on dialogue and partnership.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - the proposal for a regulation (doc. i would like to begin by thanking all the colleagues who took part in the debate, including the suggestions made by the committees that took part, including, of course, the chairman of the delegation, mrs juknevičiené. i would also like to thank those who have tabled amendments. mrs jeggle has already referred to the amendment concerning the abolition of the death penalty in uzbekistan, which we expressly welcome. i cannot, however, refrain from pointing out that we are concerned to see opposition politicians and journalists in uzbekistan's neighbouring countries being killed in mysterious circumstances. this too should be addressed in this context. the question is simply how to communicate our values without sacrificing our own interests. the european union has an opportunity here, because we have more to offer than dependence or even exploitation of countries. it is a simple and profound question of how we can combine long-term stability and democratic development. there is still a great potential for the development of a genuine partnership between the central asian republics on the one hand and the european union on the other. it is nothing less than a package of economic and democratic development and cultural and scientific exchange, but also with a clear priority for environmental protection and civil society development. i would like to mention briefly a matter which is certainly well known to everyone here: the environmental disaster in the aral sea, which has now become known beyond the region - one of the greatest environmental disasters in the world. the countries concerned will not be able to solve this problem without our help. we must show solidarity and do our part here too. there 's some good news . we must remember that turkey is an important partner, with a strong local presence and a capacity to contribute its expertise to the joint development of a strategy as a country seeking to join the european union. the success of the european union is also measured by the extent to which it succeeds in developing a coherent strategy towards central asia. if we want to be a global player, we must also develop a strategy in which the european union articulates its interests in a joint way.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 20 february 2008. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by mr corbett and mr méndez de vigo, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the treaty of lisbon (2007/2286 (ini)) (a6-0013/2008).
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i can certainly spare myself the need to go into the details of the corbett-méndez de vigo report again in my remarks. the rapporteur and the co-rapporteurs of the accompanying committees have done this themselves. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the european parliament's opinion on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the european parliament's opinion on the council's opinion on the council of the council of the council of the council of the council of the council of the european parliament. what is the real purpose of this exercise? why do we need this contract? in the history of the peoples of this continent, 100 years is a short time. but if you look back 100 years, in 1908, a sultan ruled in turkey. russia was ruled by the czar. this city was part of the german empire, ruled by wilhelm ii. france had a huge colonial empire and britain had its empire. fifty years ago, the event that took place 75 years ago, the rise to power of adolf hitler, was already 25 years past. meanwhile, joseph stalin had committed his heinous crimes, auschwitz had happened, and 50 years ago, the two blocs, the soviet union, led by nikita khrushchev, and the united states, led by eisenhower, cemented the post-war yalta order. twenty-five years ago, the soviet union was running out of steam, and on the other hand, the world was going down the wrong path of "reagonomics" in economics. today we cannot imagine what will be in 25 years. one thing is certain: the only chance that the states that dominated half the world a hundred years ago -- france and britain -- have today to be able to secure their influence in the world and maybe still be able to participate in 25, 50 and 100 years from now is not to put up pretty flags in their place, but to ask themselves the question: how do i secure myself in a narrower world with limited influence, because there are many more players like china, india or the latin american continent, how do i secure myself in this global village as a responsible politician for my people, for my country, the participation in democracy, in welfare, in social stability in the world? i can't do this alone anymore. the only way to do this is to join forces, at least for europeans. perhaps the united states of america can survive in this global competition on its own. maybe china, maybe india, even though china and india are already making technology cooperation agreements with each other. when we talk about this treaty, i would like to talk about why we never actually discuss the fact that the ministers of industry and development of china and india met last year to conclude a cooperation agreement. two countries, one third of the world's population, are signing a cooperation agreement! and what do we europeans do? we are on the right track, even if we are not on it consistently enough and not completely, but we are on the right track, the track described by the phrase: unity makes strength! if you go alone, you'll lose in the long run. the winner will be the one who swims in the queue, who brings his ship in, not behind a flagship, but in a line of equal ships - whether they are large or small states, we are all equal in this union. but we are coming together in a framework which will enable us to cooperate economically, socially, democratically and on an equal footing with other regions of the world to ensure human rights and peace in the world. that's the point of this contract! we are therefore deeply convinced that the social democrats, the socialists in this house, want to support this treaty and the opinion of our rapporteurs on this treaty, because we believe that this is the right way forward. those who preached 100 years ago that the german essence should heal the world, or that the pax britannica should rule the world, or that the french supremacy should rule the communauté française, or that the césaropapisme that reigned in moscow at that time led to the worship of a man as emperor and god, those who told the world that the flag was the most important thing behind which to rally, and not the spirit of peace, which we believe to be the most important thing, those who claimed nationalism and the primacy of national pride as their goal, to whom we can only say that the 100 years of history behind us proves the opposite. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european history has shown that ultranationalism always means war. we counter that: nationalism is never the solution for the future! the community of peoples is the solution for the future, that is the meaning of this treaty. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am for europe, and that is why i, as a leftist, support the treaty of lisbon. i do not, however, agree with the greater emphasis on military aspects. i would remind you today that the deepening of european integration achieved by the treaty was achieved above all in the face of a hard struggle against so-called eurosceptic but mostly nationalist positions. what has been achieved must now be defended, and i hope that the comprehensive reform of the european union can be put into effect. the treaty of lisbon preserves many of the advances of the previous constitution. above all, it sets the stage for the european union to become much more democratic and closer to its citizens. and she can also be more social. the treaty provisions, such as the objective of full employment, the principle of a sustainable social market economy, the social cross-cutting clause requiring that all legal acts be examined in the future for their social compatibility, and the new protocol on social security, have finally, in my view, broken the neoliberal concrete of the maastricht treaty. the treaty of lisbon offers the opportunity to complement economic and monetary union with social union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union must not allow its protagonists to turn the eu into a free trade area without social responsibility. the race to cut taxes and wage dumping with its fatal social consequences must be stopped and minimum wages must be introduced in all eu countries.
mr president, madam vice-president, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to thank you for your reply. i cannot understand the speeches of the ukip representatives and others. i have learned that westminster democracy, parliamentary democracy, provides full democratic legitimacy. that's what's happening here. we are elected by the electorate and we will make a decision, as our colleagues in the national parliaments do, and it has full democratic legitimacy. all that is being done here in a populist way is to destroy the authority of parliamentary democracy, and you will be responsible for that. (applause from the centre) the second point i would like to make here, and for which i thank mr corbett and mr méndez de vigo, is that it is clear that this treaty is closing the democratic gap in the european union. full co-decision by the european parliament, the president of the commission is elected by the european parliament, treaties with other countries must be ratified by the european parliament, the strengthening of national parliaments - i will not go into detail. what we are doing in this european union is unique, because the differences of interests between our peoples and within our peoples, which we will always have, are no longer resolved by tanks as in the past, but by debates and democratic voting. this is the real, great difference from what has been european history in the past, and this on the basis of the equality of states and peoples. that's what we should be guided by. this has been a great fortune for western europe for 60 years. since 1990, this has been a good thing for large parts of europe after european reunification. we want to strengthen this now so that this peace process we have inside will give us better decision-making opportunities through the treaty, and so that we can meet the challenges of the future in this world and prevail in this world on issues of energy security, foreign security policy, terrorism and many others. it's the answer to that. mr méndez de vigo quoted paul valéry, and i quote him again: 'europe will be one or the worm of the asian continent.' that's what this is about. does europe have a chance of surviving together by gathering our forces and democratically legitimising and directing them, or are we, as europeans, going to perish in this global order? (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. if you follow the debate this morning, you will see that this treaty is accompanied by great expectations. first, there is the expectation that it will be ratified and will enter into force. the expectation that it will enable the european union to better fulfil its role in the world, to enable it to cope with the consequences of globalisation, and so on and so forth. i would like to add another expectation: i believe and hope that the treaty offers a chance to reconcile the european union with its citizens a little more. there is a gap between the union and its citizens. it has been made clear in the referenda in france and the netherlands and it must be closed. the union needs the consent of its citizens, and the new treaty offers good opportunities to do so. it gives national parliaments the chance to participate in the legislative process. it is right that the european parliament should use the national parliaments within the framework of subsidiarity. this is a good thing, because the approval of citizens depends, among other things, on a clearer and more balanced distribution of responsibilities between the eu and the member states. the national parliaments can help. i do not see us as competing with the national parliaments, but i believe we must cooperate. i think that the national parliaments should also make use of these possibilities. i would like to ask them to do so specifically. it will be interesting to see whether this new instrument of subsidiarity control will work or not. another point of view: if we look at the european union from the outside, we see an example of regional cooperation, of successful regional cooperation, as there is only one other on this earth - not as successful and advanced as the eu: the asean countries. the european union is also trying to cooperate with them and thereby contribute to peace and security in the world.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i am not going to go into detail. they overwhelmingly approved the reform treaty. this is the expression of the free will of the peoples you represent. i congratulate you on this convincing result. the european parliament represents the peoples of europe. this treaty gives the european union greater powers of action and ensures greater democracy. (applause from the centre) we will defend the common values of europe and will never allow the voice to prevail over free argument. this is a free, democratic europe. congratulations on this convincing result! (applause from the centre) (protests by the ind/dem group) those who have called for these rollcall votes on amendments which only contain questions should give their electors an account of how much this has cost them. you're gonna get what you did back there, even sitting there. if your parents saw you like this, i think they'd be ashamed to see you like this. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to propose an amendment to joint amendment no 12, which does not of course replace the joint amendment but adds additional wording to the second sentence. this additional wording is:or through collective agreements in accordance with national traditions. this comes after generally binding arrangements, and before that enable full-time workers to make a decent living from their earnings. an amendment which proposes this addition is designed to take account of the scandinavian conditions and has been agreed with the co-rapporteurs and the co-rapporteur groups.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this oral amendment is intended to clarify and update the text. i also took up the wishes of the shadow reporters. i read in english:welcomes as a positive step towards reform of the criminal justice system in uzbekistan the approval by the uzbek parliament of the laws on the abolition of the death penalty and the authorisation of courts to issue arrest warrants. calls for a comprehensive overhaul of the criminal justice system that would effectively promote the implementation of these reforms.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. before we get to the final vote, i just wanted to say that i am confused because all my yellow neighbours have disappeared. there's only one left.
we take note of that, although it would have irritated me to comment on it.
in writing. the lisbon treaty will make a militaristic europe possible. the current ec and eu treaties forbid a permanent eu military budget of its own. the 'stimulus fund' (article 28 (3)) can now also be used to pay for operational eu military expenditure. this means that in addition to national military budgets, there is an eu military budget. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. institutional cooperation between the eu and nato is laid down in a treaty (article 28a (7)). the right of the bundestag to decide on the deployment of the bundeswehr abroad is being significantly eroded. the reform treaty will make a military core europe possible through the instrument of 'permanent structured cooperation'. this creates a primary legal framework for the increased deployment of eu battle groups (article 28, protocol 4). the court of justice of the european union has no jurisdiction (article 11, 240a). the european parliament is also not competent and is merely kept informed (article 21). this will remove future military operations from democratic control. the possibility of a militaristic europe is accompanied by repressive closure of the external borders. the new article 62 of the treaty on reform is intended to introduce 'an integrated border control system at the external borders'. the undemocratic implementation of the lisbon treaty by the circumvention of referendums, the imposition of a neoliberal economic policy and the militaristic elements are taking europe in the wrong direction.
in writing. - it is a success for the greens that the commission's proposal for this regulation was not simply passed by parliament. the greens have been persistent in ensuring that the collection of sensitive data on population and housing is protected under this regulation. the voluntary annex, which provided for the collection of micro-data and questions on highly sensitive data such as sexual behaviour or reading skills , has now been completely deleted. the european data protection supervisor was also called on twice by the greens. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. the regulation contains our amendment, which refers to compliance with data protection rules both in the member states and at eu level. in addition, there are now clear references to data protection rules for data transmission and processing. the regulation, which has been clearly supported, is now doing what it was originally intended to do. the aim is not to collect new data but simply to harmonise the collection of statistical data on the main social and economic characteristics of regions already carried out at national level, so that these data can be compared throughout europe. a common european data base will allow regional aid to be used where it is needed most.
the chairman of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on balance, and if i'm to leave out a few details, i have to say that we, the members of my generation and, of course, our younger colleagues, have been quite fortunate. we've spent a great, perhaps the best part of our lives in a time of open doors and windows of opportunity. this period began in 1975 with the helsinki final act and was most marked in eastern and central europe, where the berlin wall and the communist system collapsed in 1989. through the broken wall, through the open doors and windows of the eastern front of the euro-atlantic community, a new view has been opened. we saw the vast, sunny and rugged landscape of a united and free europe, as represented by this mighty european parliament building. i just couldn't imagine, in my youth, that i would ever be in it. in our country, the period between the 1980s and the early 1990s was called the slovenian spring. unfortunately, at the very beginning of the democratic awakening, we were hit by the yugoslav crisis, which tried to stop democratic development and which caused the nations of the western balkans to lag behind in a huge way. most of the countries of eastern and central europe, the ten new members of the european union, have accepted the historic challenge. but in the balkans, time stopped. the gaerc general affairs and external relations council, which i chair, has amongst other difficult tasks the task of promoting the european perspective of the western balkans. this means integrating countries such as croatia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, serbia, montenegro, bosnia and herzegovina, kosovo and albania into the european membership, candidacy and agreement system. the yugoslav crisis must end. the doors and windows are open. the wall is gone. the european union announced in the thessaloniki agenda that the western balkan countries would sooner or later become members of the european union. now is the time to remember our commitments. we must make sure that macedonia, or the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, starts negotiations for membership of the european union this year. serbia must shed the burden of the past, that is, the fears and shadows of the milosevic regime. milosevic was the one who was responsible for the stalemate in the western balkans. and we must not forget albania, bosnia and herzegovina, montenegro and kosovo. in this context, the european union western balkans forum will be held in slovenia at the end of march. the commission is preparing a specific communication on the western balkans in cooperation with the slovenian presidency. the forum will also discuss strengthening regional cooperation in various fields, such as transport, civil protection, research and development, and so on. in accordance with the conclusions of the january general affairs and external relations council, the european commission is holding talks on visa liberalisation with all countries in the region. the enormous importance of visa liberalisation for the region cannot be underestimated. in this connection, mr president, we would like to point out a paradox. citizens of the former yugoslavia travelled to most european countries without a visa before 1990. now, a generation of young people who grew up after this turning point in europe's history need a visa to travel. ladies and gentlemen, at the january council, the foreign ministers unanimously invited serbia to sign a political agreement, which represents a new step towards membership of the european union. the election victory of the european-oriented candidate tadić has given us hope that serbia will join us as soon as possible after years of slow development and isolation. the european union has already deployed a european security and defence policy mission to kosovo. the establishment of relations with kosovo is a matter for each member. but we will probably not differ on the basic assessments announced by the european council in december. the most important thing is to take into account and respect serbia. the european union needs serbia and serbia needs the european union. intercultural dialogue, in my view, is not an empty phrase. if negotiations are exhausted, the possibilities for dialogue are not exhausted. the time has come for practical dialogue between serbs and albanians in kosovo, between serbia and kosovo, between serbia and the european union. the fate of kosovo has been a burden for many years. kosovo was once part of the federal system of yugoslavia, but after 1974 it was virtually equated with the yugoslav republics. slobodan milosevic took away kosovo's autonomy in the late 1980s and then occupied it militarily in 1999, causing a tragedy of global proportions. the case of kosovo is truly unique, having been taken under the protection of the international community for humanitarian reasons, and then administered by it for almost nine years. monday's decision by the general affairs and external relations council was not an easy one, however. it, like the declaration of independence in pristina, was not unexpected. the following facts led us to her conclusion. first, there is a growing recognition that a return to the status quo is not acceptable, nor is the current status quo. the new formula for kosovo's status was not found by either side, and it is clear that continuing negotiations would not bring it. kosovo has been under un administration since 1999 and serbia has not exercised effective authority in kosovo during that time, pursuant to resolution 1244. kosovo, and in particular its majority population, had been subject to systematic repression, including ethnic cleansing and humanitarian catastrophe, for several years prior to that year. all of the above, ladies and gentlemen, which was initially agreed by all the members of the contact group, including the russian federation, supports the argument that kosovo is indeed a special case, a case sui generis, and therefore does not call into question the validity of the principle of sovereignty and territorial integrity of states. the council has long been convinced that the european union must take responsibility for kosovo. this belief was confirmed at the gaerc meeting in february by the conclusions you are familiar with. after all the prophecies of disunity, we have achieved unity. the decisions were adopted unanimously after lengthy negotiations and coordination. the european union is an interesting and unique community. of course, we share common interests and values. among them are respect and tolerance for differences. you could say we're all about our differences. at the end of the february meeting of the general affairs and external relations council, we reached a common position. an important finding in it is that we expect to act in accordance with the national, domestic practice of each country with regard to the recognition of kosovo. some may have expected the european union as a whole to recognise kosovo, but that is not possible because the european union is not the same as a state. the european union has adopted a joint assessment of developments in kosovo and the western balkans. first, the european union has confirmed the fact that kosovo has adopted a resolution on independence. secondly, the european union notes that kosovo has committed itself to democratic principles through this resolution, for example with regard to the serb minority and cultural monuments. thirdly, the european union confirmed the continuation of the international mission and its readiness to play a leading role in the region. fourthly, the european union has confirmed the european perspective of the western balkans. fifth, the european commission will prepare concrete, for example economic, measures for the wider region. and sixthly, the european union is aware of the principles and decisions of the international community, but the declaration of independence of kosovo, because of its specific nature, does not compromise those principles. kosovo, of course, also contains and includes serbian people, serbian heritage and culture. and i would say, and i would stress this, that this is a particularly valuable part of european culture. many european nations, including slovenia, which i represent, have important monuments of their cultural and ethnic heritage outside their modern national borders. this is a fact that in modern europe no longer constitutes a barrier but, on the contrary, a link. the same applies to ethnic minority communities. we believe that it is essential for serbia at this moment not to close its door to the european union with its reactions to the declaration and recognition of kosovo's independence. we reiterate that the issue of kosovo is separate from the issue of serbia's european integration. serbia should not link these two issues. in this sense, we find it particularly incomprehensible that serbia opposes the european union or its mission in kosovo, which is primarily in the interest of the serbian population there. i'm finished. the european union is one of the most successful peace-keeping organisations in the world. the peoples and countries of europe are united and in solidarity for peace and a better life. such an attitude includes tolerance and generosity, and above all, understanding and compassion for the plight of others. ladies and gentlemen, the european union has also opened doors and windows for the western balkans, including kosovo, with the decisions i have just mentioned.
member of the commission. − mr president, recalling our excellent cooperation on the western balkans, i want to thank you for the opportunity to inform parliament on the commission’s standpoint on the kosovo status process. kosovo’s assembly declared independence last sunday in a climate of dignity. in its declaration, kosovo committed itself to fully respecting extensive rights for kosovo serbs, especially with regard to local self-government in education, culture and health, in line with the comprehensive proposal presented by un special envoy martti ahtisaari. celebrations in kosovo took place in a joyful but responsible manner. however, there have been acts of violence in belgrade and north kosovo. we condemn the use of violence and call on all leaders and people of the region to remain calm and maintain peace and stability. as foreign minister rupel explained, the eu foreign ministers on monday responded to developments in a united way. european unity is indeed essential to enable the european union to successfully steer the ongoing stabilisation in the western balkans and to help bring the kosovo status process to a conclusion. after the prolonged talks in the united nations security council failed, the european union was bound to steer the process to a conclusion. the union has already taken the essential decisions to send an esdp rule of law mission to kosovo. on monday, the council also provided a platform for dealing with recognition. it will be up to each eu member state individually to establish relations with kosovo in accordance with its national procedures. several member states have already recognised kosovo. i expect most of the others to follow suit, at their own pace. the council rightly reiterated the eu’s adherence to the principles of the un charter and the csce helsinki final act and to all un security council resolutions. it underlined that ‘in view of the conflict of the 1990s and the extended period of international administration, kosovo constitutes a sui generis case which does not call into question these principles’. the commission fully shares this position. in line with monday’s council conclusions, the commission stands ready to provide its full support to the eu’s effort in kosovo. this must be the hour of european unity also between the institutions. by using community instruments, the commission will support institution-building in kosovo and foster its political and economic development. on 5 march, we shall propose concrete measures for the broader region in order to advance its european aspirations. in kosovo, many areas are in need of development, and we must strive together to help kosovo to help itself, to stand on its own feet as quickly as possible. in this context the commission is working on organising a donors’ conference that should help alleviate the most pressing financial challenges concerning kosovo. i expect the conference to take place before the summer. i know this is a difficult moment for serbia. i am very conscious of kosovo’s historical importance for the serbian people. however, i find that the time has come to turn the page on the past, and to look to the future. and serbia’s future is in europe. serbia and the whole region of the western balkans have a european perspective, with the ultimate goal of eu membership. this eu perspective functions as the glue that keeps the countries of the region on a peaceful and reformist track, which is extremely important in these sensitive and difficult times. finally, i want to reiterate my appreciation for the unwavering support of the european parliament for the eu perspective of the western balkans. we count on your continuous support, so that the citizens of the region can fulfil their aspiration of becoming, one day, part of the european union. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the independence of kosovo has been declared, kosovo is a state! anyone who has experienced the situation in kosovo between 1989 and 1999 must have known that this independence was inevitable. the long-time pacifist president, our sakharov prize winner ibrahim rugova, has now also been granted posthumous satisfaction. unfortunately, no negotiated solution could be found. i'm sure every one of us here would love to have one of those. the only thing i can think of in terms of the solution at present is churchill's phrase: this is the worst possible solution, except for all the others. i watched with tears and laughter what happened in pristina on sunday. one laughing because i think this is the only way out of the dead end, one crying because i was sure that we were going to create problems that are going to be difficult to solve. but the eu has acted in a united way, contrary to many press reports which always say that we are at odds. the eulex mission was launched unanimously. it is not an attack on serbia, but it is necessary, especially for the serbs in kosovo, because it will carefully ensure that the ahtisaari plan, which won a two-thirds majority in this house in the spring of 2007, is implemented. it guarantees the most generous minority rights for the serbs, respect for borders and the rule of law, and thus also the protection of other minorities. the politicians in kosovo must now shape their state with restraint and determination. the fight against unemployment can only be won by a functioning rule of law. radical crime prevention is also paramount. the eu mission will assist them where necessary. there are a large number of young, well-educated people in kosovo who will be happy to participate in the building of the new state. kosovo is not a precedent. it's a one-off. the statehood of the latter is the culmination of the disintegration of yugoslavia, which milošević initiated in kosovo in 1989. i therefore regret that milosevic is no longer living through this, but that his democratic successors are the ones who are left with this heavy legacy. we wish the serbian politicians calm and hope that they will now devote all their energy to ensuring that serbia can make its way into the eu. (applause from the right)
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! my thoughts inevitably go back seventeen years. at that time slovenia declared its independence, and the foreign minister was dimitrij rupel. the majority of the major states in the un and the eu and the majority of the eu member states refused to recognize slovenia at that time. the foreign minister of a large eu member state has said that if slovenia becomes independent, it will be isolated for 50 years. today slovenia is the recognized, respected, successful and good presidency of the council of the european union. and in that light, we should put some of what was said in this house today into perspective. i am glad that kosovo is now independent, because after decades of oppression, the people of kosovo have finally got their own free democratic state, after decades of oppression and after being the latest victims of a genocide that could only be stopped with international help. i appeal to serbia to see this as an opportunity for the serbian people to look towards their european future, unburdened by the burdens of the past. but then it must be nonviolent! then the serbian minister in kosovo must not welcome the attack on un posts on the border with kosovo. then we must not accuse the democratically elected leadership of kosovo of high treason, instead of finally starting a dialogue with these victims of genocide. and i say very clearly: it is unacceptable for bishop artemije of the serbian orthodox church to call for war. this is not acceptable! and we must be very clear that we as the european union must help serbia on its way to europe, but that serbia itself must also make its contribution to the establishment of a peaceful good neighbourhood. the european union is not a party to the conflict. the european union cannot be said to be divided, and i am happy that we are now moving towards a good european future for the whole region. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make three comments. firstly, the fact that we are in this situation shows that we, as the european union, have once again failed to assert our position between the two poles, russia and the united states. the second point is that we must now do everything possible to ensure that minority rights and cultural rights are upheld in kosovo. the kosovo government is therefore well advised to do a great deal and to a great extent in practice. i would like to thank you, mr president-in-office, for having given an important signal with the eulex mission. thirdly, for historical and cultural reasons, i have a great deal of sympathy for the feelings in serbia at this time, and i believe that for this reason we must be patient as serbia finds its way to the european union. and that we need to support that. but we must also make it clear that violence is not acceptable. we should continue to pay our money - in 2007 it was 187 million euros - but on the condition that we do it peacefully, in order to pave the way for a stable region.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on regional development. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the effects of demographic change are very different. while the suburbs of paris are constantly shaken by social unrest due to the high rate of migration, in our home in brandenburg, the regions are shrinking, people are migrating and the population is aging much faster. the ageing of society is putting a burden on public budgets for social spending, and the lisbon strategy is aimed at reducing this burden. but given the real causes of demographic change, i wonder whether such a reduction is not counterproductive to the lisbon strategy. the commission finds it very easy to blame the ageing of society on women because they are not having more children. the causes are more likely to be present and past political mistakes. i would like to mention just three of the factors which have led to this distortion in society. the first point is that the analyses show that the desire to have children is very much there, the parents - and not only the women - but still do not have children because the framework conditions are not right, because they do not have social security, because - as already mentioned - the employment opportunities for parents are more difficult and because career and family life are not compatible. but the solution to this would be to think about work-life balance in a whole new way. the key is to divide income and time for family and career equally between the sexes; there are excellent studies on this from the dublin foundation. and it would be crucial that children do not become an individual at risk of poverty, as is the case in many member states. for the policies of the member states in the eu, this actually means sustainability in social security systems, and this is an unpopular cost factor, but it would bring demographic change back on track. the second aspect is illustrated by an interesting study in my own region. it was found that the migration of young women was not caused by the question of reconciling family and work, but by massive discrimination after school. they're the best people, they're the best in their class, they're the best graduates, and yet they get the worst educational placements, the worst career opportunities. this means that the european commission can be effective in combating discrimination in the area where it has real competence, namely in the area of gender mainstreaming, equal opportunities for men and women, by introducing improvements in legislation and, above all, by putting pressure on the member states to implement legislation so that something finally happens. thirdly, as the author of the opinion of the committee of the regions, i would like to refer again to the subject of the shrinking regions. in our opinion, we criticise the fact that the public administrations still erect huge barriers to effective civic engagement, to the development of innovation and creativity, and thus prevent successful regional development concepts. at the same time, there is a tendency for policy makers to simply write off regions, to withdraw from the state's responsibility for basic services and simply give them up. this cannot be a european solution, because in the long term, over generations - as history shows - it will be very expensive. it is therefore the task of the public administrations to take up the impulses of civil society and work with it to help the region to overcome this dilemma. in this context, i call on the european commission to incorporate civil society impulses into regional cooperation, to promote it by bringing regions to exchange experience where this is working well and by showing good examples of good practice. these would be very concrete solutions where the european commission can really be active and not always blame demographic change on women.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union is facing an unprecedented demographic change. by 2030, more than 20 million people of working age will be missing. two employees have to cover one pensioner. the good news is that people are living longer, and older people are healthier than ever. the bad news: there is a lack of young people, which has dramatic implications for the organization of work, urban planning, housing and education systems. we need a more family-friendly environment in our member states, more childcare facilities, more company day-care centres, better reconciliation between family and work, more women in active working life, more part-time work for parents and safe re-entry after the family phase. and above all, stable career prospects and sufficient income to facilitate the desire to have children. we also need much higher investment in people to improve education and skills. lifelong learning programmes should not only benefit young people, but also older people who want to be employed for much longer, who are resilient, highly competent and highly motivated. the castex own-initiative report must not be overloaded. the legal status of social services of general interest remains controversial. we are against an eu-wide framework directive or binding legislation. the voluntary earnings-related pension should not be subject to additional obligations, such as family policy criteria. this is a social security issue, a tax issue, a classic member state issue. the report contains substantial content, based on these considerations and the amendments tabled by the epp-ed group. they will enable us to have the necessary broad discussion on the consequences of the dramatic changes in demography.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their good and constructive cooperation, but also the staff of the committee and the political groups and the personal staff. the stronger the community, the better the product! i very much welcome the fact that we are discussing my report and that of my colleague mr guellec together today. they form a complementary unit when it comes to the goal of a truly sustainable development in europe. cohesion policy is the hardware, the leipzig charter and the territorial agenda are the software. these instruments work only together. the eu has legal and financial competences in cohesion policy. we are not really responsible for spatial development, urban and regional planning. this is why coherent policies at local and regional, national ministerial and eu level are essential for the future of europe's cities and regions. this is the only way to create european added value. cities are the focus of opportunities and problems. they affect the countryside and the immediate surroundings. we therefore look for a balanced development of the whole picture, for solutions which are based on a holistic approach and at the same time adapted to the specific situation. there will be no single solution, but common principles, such as the integrated approach, the partnership principle, horizontal and vertical, between cities and the countryside, but also with the various directly concerned. we have made a lot of progress at european level. in addition to the leipzig charter and the territorial agenda, the first action programme under the portuguese presidency, territorial cohesion was included as a community objective in the reform treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we wanted to use today's debate to deliver parliament's opinion before the spring council summit, so that territorial and urban concerns are clearly included in the lisbon and gothenburg strategies. it was also the common wish of the informal council of ministers in leipzig that the slovenian presidency of the council would put the territorial agenda on the agenda of this year's spring summit, in order to achieve greater political recognition of the territorial framework for the development of regions and cities, as well as new forms of participation in eu policy-making. this was also clearly underlined at the meeting in the azores in november. i have no real information at this stage on the state of implementation. i would therefore have been very pleased if someone from the council had been here today to obtain this information on the state of preparations. i am sorry to hear that there is clearly no agreement in the council to comply with the ministers' request. i would like to know from the council whether and in what form the territorial agenda is to be discussed at the spring summit. i would also like to know whether it is true that the present draft council conclusions make no mention of territorial concerns and do not envisage the corresponding changes in the lisbon treaty. only then can we turn many good words into concrete actions.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr vlasák is quite right when he says that we have the task of preparing cohesion policy for the period after 2013. we have used the two reports to tackle this problem. we've actually put together everything that we think is important. i would remind you, however, that we should remember the strategic objectives of cohesion policy, namely the approximation of living conditions in the regions of the european union and the support for the lisbon and gothenburg strategies. if the european parliament wants to help shape future cohesion policy, i believe it must focus on key strategies, so as not to return to the 'casting-pot' principle. we must face the new challenges arising from the cohesion policy. i would like to mention demographic developments, climate protection, depopulation of regions, but also a modern european urban policy, to name just a few. in my view, the equal opportunities approach for people and regions is a necessary approach for solutions in this area. i believe that investing more in education, research and innovation and their infrastructure is becoming more and more important and also really sustainable. but this can only be achieved if we in future better involve european citizens in the development of programmes and projects, as the european parliament has long called for and has repeatedly called for in these reports. i would like to appeal to the member states - i regret that the council is not here - to remind them that we are giving them a homework assignment. if we are to finance additional things in the context of cohesion policy, the necessary financial resources must also be made available.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the late 1990s, the european union had a philosophy of measuring its capacity for integration by the achievements of the internal market. the hope that the internal market's development strategies, which were exclusively geared to economic growth, would solve the problems in the european union was not fulfilled. the european single market concentrated the growth in economic activity on the centres of gravity that attracted further activity, at the expense of the less-favoured regions and the natural environment. and even in these centers, not everyone was part of the successes, but poverty was increasing, and that caused tension and unrest. today the commission is making the same mistakes: it places cohesion policy under the lisbon strategy. instead of giving real priority to the problems of the most disadvantaged regions and promoting exclusively sustainable development projects, it relies on old-fashioned infrastructure concepts and, consequently, only on economic centres. the municipalities and regions have been made dependent on the big european banks for generations. i think this is a huge problem, because in the end the next generation will pay the price for a failed development policy. and this in turn is triggering migration movements - as my colleague mrs krehl has already indicated - and it is also leading to anti-european sentiment because a part of the population is not involved in the successes. these are dead end strategies. i believe that we must be careful not to jeopardize the internal cohesion of the union. economic and social cohesion must really remain a policy in its own right, and the gains must be available to all regions and all people in europe. this can only be achieved if cohesion policy is really supported by a model of society based on solidarity and by sustainable development patterns that do not come at the expense of the environment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the fourth cohesion report is of great political importance, and this certainly needs no repeating here. i agree with the rapporteur on all the fundamental points and congratulate him on his good work. it rightly stresses that the challenges ahead can only be met if cohesion policy remains a fundamental community policy, which is in any case enshrined in the treaty. this is a clear rejection of renationalisation. however, this requires a balanced eu cohesion budget. yes, there must be sufficient resources to ensure the harmonious development of all regions in the eu and to meet the new challenges! however, the report differs on the wording of the request for financial resources for cohesion policy after 2013. i do not think it is right, as many of my colleagues do, that this report, which is now being prepared in 2008, should make a prophylactic call for more funds for the future, not least because we must rightly guard against the accusation that we do not always use all the funds already available in time. the committee therefore found a good compromise formula, but it applies only to the text of the resolution and not to the recitals. we should therefore not say the opposite in the recitals, but be consistent with the wording 'sufficient funds for a balanced cohesion policy'. the final point is that it is a question of credibility that cohesion policy has been able to achieve lasting success in the past and that this can be guaranteed in the future with sufficient funds, without us having to articulate the demand for more financial resources now. commissioner, in your opening statement you spoke of adequate resources for future challenges. that's a good wording!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, on the kallenbach report and the leipzig charter: yes, we must also think more in a european context in spatial planning. but whether this also requires new european responsibilities in housing policy and spatial planning is a very big question mark. the guellec report and the outlook for future structural policy: the regional challenges posed by globalisation, demography, climate change, migration - all of this is well described. the same applies to the political outlook. we should stick to the established objectives of structural policy, we should supplement it with these new components. i welcome the rapporteur's integrated approach also in relation to the challenges of rural development. however, we must in principle be more mindful of the european added value of these programmes. whether it is cohesion, innovation or crossborder support, europe should only support where we can really make a lasting european contribution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the one-off operating subsidy does not create european added value, but the permanent expansion of research, education and infrastructure does! only by increasing the transparency of the use of funds and by leveraging - for example, through loan financing and more public private partnership - will we increase the efficiency of structural policy. i am also glad that the commission has taken the initiative to make the necessary changes to the financial perspective. first we have to assess the current period, first we have to adapt the instruments more efficiently to new challenges such as climate change and demography, then we can call for a contribution in the budget. the blank cheque for the future now being called for in the report is really not a serious demand. i therefore ask you to support our amendment in this respect.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i too would like to thank the many colleagues for their valuable contributions and support. i think it has become clear that on the one hand we are committed to the important european asset of solidarity, on the other hand we are using our instruments - in this case cohesion policy - much more efficiently and concretely in order to achieve truly sustainable development, and thirdly we really need to communicate with citizens from the outset. mrs hübner, a special thank you! you've made it clear that you're here to take concrete steps. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs is a good example of this. mrs hübner, i think we're going to need you particularly to get the council on board. i regret once again that no one from the council is present for this important debate. the conclusions of these two reports must lead to a change in the lisbon strategy and must actually substantiate the new community objective, the territorial dimension, otherwise they will remain empty words. a final appeal to my colleagues before the vote: let us be really concrete, not just examine and re-analyze, let us make it a condition that we demand the integrated approach to support from the structural funds and that we also make clear commitments to reduce greenhouse gases. climate action must be implemented in cities, otherwise all our commitments at european or national level will be worthless.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i am not saying that the commission is not prepared to take action.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. belarus is and will remain the worry child in our neighbourhood policy. the dictator lukashenko is still ensuring that the country systematically distances itself from its neighbours and isolates itself. he tramples human rights and upholds the death penalty. this is not only a matter of concern to us, but also a matter of massive opposition from the people themselves. more and more young people are leaving belarus. this is a tragedy for this country. the european union's task is therefore to help belarus on its way back to democracy. in my view, this is not possible with dictator lukashenko and his presidential apparatus, but only with the opposition, civil society and young people, who could represent the future elite of the country. i therefore appeal to the member states to change their visa policies for these people and to give them the chance to exchange with young people in the european union, a chance to have a democratic education and a chance to experience democracy in general by being able to travel to the european union. the visa policy must not be an insurmountable obstacle to democracy. this is important! however, in the negotiations with lukashenko, there should be no concessions on human rights. the european parliament is unanimous on this, across all the political groups: the release of all political prisoners, a moratorium on the death penalty, freedom of the media and respect for all the foundations of democracy. that is the basic condition for negotiation. no concessions. it's really about how the next election goes. i hope very much for the belarusian people that they will take their fate into their own hands.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. twenty years ago, i spoke at the underground university in czechoslovakia and poland. i am pleased to hear today from colleagues from the baltic states, slovakia, the czech republic and poland how much they support the opposition in belarus. i want to thank you very much for that. they are doing something important for the eu, more than those who, through talks, are enhancing and supporting a corrupt regime that should finally be removed. i agree with mr buzek that russia is responsible. this is a post-colonial and pre-colonial situation, and we must not accept this any longer!
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. if you have ever seen the east african land of the great lakes from the air, you might think that paradise is there. but on earth, you often see hell. it is a land of fantastic nature and great natural treasures on the one hand and terrible suffering on the other. natural disasters, wars, displacement, famine, pestilence, massacres, mass rape, ethnic strife are worse than almost anywhere else. in north kivu alone, there are 800 000 displaced persons. you have to see that this displacement problem exists on both sides of the border. there is a phenomenon in africa that you don't see in this form anywhere else, which is that it's not being displaced from one side to the other, but it's being displaced from one country to another and from one country to that country. so on both sides, displaced people and refugees. this means that the states are absolutely unstable. that's why we have to provide humanitarian aid, and we have to be massively present to help people. but basically, it's just a doctoring of symptoms. if we do not succeed in putting in place some kind of viable state and rule of law structures, the catastrophe will never end, even with the greatest help. that is why it is extremely important that we get involved massively, including politically. the armistice of 23 january is extremely fragile, it exists only on paper. that is why it is urgent that we force all parties to talk to each other at the negotiating table, but above all that we do our part. unfortunately, europeans often profit from the disasters there. the demand that we look more seriously at certificates of origin for raw materials, for example, is therefore justified, because it is often europeans who exploit the plight of the people there for their own economic interests. we must not be satisfied with speeches and superficial doctors.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday, 21 february 2008.
last week, for the first time in the context of an eu operation under the european security and defence policy, a soldier from the eufor force, french non-commissioned officer gilles polin, died in the line of duty when he accidentally crossed the chad-sudan border in his off-road vehicle. another french soldier was wounded. eufor is now investigating, together with the sudanese authorities, how such a tragic event could have been possible. i would like to extend our deepest condolences to the family and all the relatives of the deceased non-commissioned officer. i would remind you that the eu operation in chad and the central african republic is aimed at protecting the refugee camps in the areas along the border with sudan, which are the consequence of the conflict in darfur.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 6 march 2008, pursuant to rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday: no change. tuesday:
i think that there are no objections to the first request that commissioner almunia should make a statement there. the second question is what we will deal with. wednesday: no change in the number of votes. thursday:we have received several requests for the debates on human rights violations. the epp group has asked for the second sub-item 'afghanistan' to be replaced by a new sub-item 'arrest of protesters after the presidential elections in russia'.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is not about the russian elections per se, but about the fact that immediately after the russian elections, demonstrations were crushed by omon militias and 50 people were arrested, most of whom are still in custody. this is a brutal assault! we believe that we must respond immediately to this brutal attack.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we discussed this at the conference of presidents last thursday. i do not think it is useful to discuss this question in isolation. we will have the opportunity in the not too distant future, in the run-up to the eu-russia summit, to debate in this parliament the overall state of relations between the eu and russia. you could put this point there. that is why we have recommended that this should not be postponed until thursday afternoon, when only 25 members are here, but that it should be dealt with in the context of this great debate which we are going to have anyway. the delegation from parliament will be travelling there in the next few days. we should wait for their return and hear what the parliament's delegation has to say.
i would like to thank mr wurtz. i have already written to the president of afghanistan on this matter and if you all agree, i will take the initiative again, not only on my own behalf but on behalf of all of you. may i say that this is the consensus? mr cohn-bendit, we should not go into this any further. then i will take the initiative once again on behalf of all of you. i'd like to avoid a debate. if mr schulz wants to go, mr cohn-bendit is more likely to go. mr cohn-bendit, would you like to speak? that is the correct procedure, but i will not treat one in this way and the other in that way. mr cohn-bendit does not wish to comment. mr schulz, would you like to comment?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i don't want to make any comments, i just want to say that i agree with francis wurtz 100 percent. we decided to do so in this respect at the conference of presidents last thursday. i would ask you to take the opportunity to put this item on the agenda for thursday.
we now have further questions to put on the agenda. i now have the floor once again, mr posselt, since i have made an exception with mr schulz. but i ask you not to expand on this now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to express my support for mr schulz and mr wurtz. the aim here was not to prevent another subject from being discussed, but to put the subject of russia on the agenda. i would like to appeal to the two group chairmen to return to the previous arrangement, where we can deal with up to five subjects. the limitation to three subjects was a mistake, and that is what is causing us difficulties.
i now have to inform those members who are not aware of the other requests for inclusion on the agenda that the alde group and the gue group have jointly requested that a new item be placed on the agenda: the case of the iranian mehdi kazemi. i believe this is also a very urgent case. the epp group has also asked for the case of archbishop paulos faraj rahho to be put on the agenda. i'm required to inform you of the formal requests. we can now vote again on whether to put the afghan case on the agenda. but if this motion were to be accepted, it would mean that the other two items would not be put to the vote at all. i'll have to point that out to you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr schulz had asked for this item to be added to the agenda. otherwise, we would have to vote against it. we would like to put the iraqi bishop on the agenda and also support mr schulz. that was his suggestion.
we have already had two additional items on the agenda. a third point can be added. it could be this one, but it could also be the other two that were requested. we have decided on two points and there are three other proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we're bound by it. that is why i asked you if you would agree to the procedure that we now vote on the afghanistan case first. if this motion gets a majority, the other two will be dropped. i must inform you correctly of the procedural consequences.
the matter is indeed difficult because we can only have three points. but one could also see the afghan and iranian cases as a field of 'personalities threatened with death'. then there's only one case left, the archbishop's case. it could be treated under a different point. i think that would be a sensible way to go.
i see no contradiction, and in the matter of the archbishop we could choose a procedure through the president of parliament which would also meet this need without making it an urgent matter. (parliament adopted the proposal) (the work schedule is thus fixed.)
the next item is the statement by the president on the situation in gaza. the group chairmen will be giving their opinion on this. but the group chairmen have asked me to make a statement on my own behalf, and i shall be happy to do so. in view of the escalation in the middle east, it was imperative to put the current situation back on the agenda today. we europeans are once again asking ourselves what we can do, how we should react to the cycle of violence which is once again setting the middle east ablaze before our eyes. the only answer is to continue and accelerate the peace talks between israelis and palestinians. the peace process initiated by annapolis must not be allowed to collapse into violence and terror. we as members of parliament must do everything we can to prevent this! the television images of the victims of the conflict that reach us every day are shocking. if a week ago we felt pity and indignation for the innocent palestinian citizens, including many children, who had to die in gaza because of the use of disproportionate military force, today, since the monstrous and deadly attack on a school in jerusalem last thursday, our sympathy is also directed with horror to the israeli population. compassion is a good virtue, even in politics. but compassion is not enough; compassion is no substitute for political action! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the protection of human life and respect for international law embody such principles and must therefore also serve as a guide. on behalf of the european parliament, i condemn in the strongest terms the violence perpetrated by hamas and other palestinian extremists. on behalf of the european parliament, i call on the government of israel to listen to the voices within and outside the country, which demand that peaceful rhetoric must be followed by peaceful actions. the gaza strip has become the black peter of the middle east. many people are repulsed by it because extremists are in political power there. some would prefer to look the other way, to cut gaza off from the rest of the world and pretend it doesn't exist. but behind the walls that already exist or that are being rebuilt on the egyptian border, there are people, children, women and men who have a right to a dignified existence. and people can't be permanently sealed off and separated by walls. people are scared. we have a deep understanding of the people who have to live every day in sderot or ashkelon in fear of new rocket fire. we take israel's security very seriously and we will always defend it. the european parliament, and i myself, have said this many times during my visit to israel and the palestinian territories, including gaza, at the end of may last year. the israeli bombardment of the gaza strip must stop! resistance in this form is terrorism and for us non-negotiable! but while fear dominates people's emotions, death is final and no one is bringing back the hundreds of people who have fallen victim to israel's need for security since the closure of gaza. we must question the proportionality and appropriateness of this approach. we must also ask whether it is in the spirit of international law for the people to suffer for the extremism of their leaders. there can be no lasting and viable solution to ignoring the people of gaza and providing only the lowest level of humanitarian assistance. the european union is helping to meet the humanitarian need, but above all it needs to invest more politically and in the long term to give meaning and direction to its financial generosity. at the paris donor conference in december, which also included the european parliament, the european union pledged eur 540 million for 2008 to support the process launched in annapolis. the new pegase funding mechanism has now started its work. the european parliament wants the european union to support and accompany the peace process with determination. the budgetary authority must also ensure that our financial commitment is not wasted. all parties will have to understand that the european union cannot tolerate military action destroying the results of our financial solidarity. the european parliament has decided to play a decisive role as an honest broker in the settlement of the middle east conflict. our new working group on the middle east will contribute to this. in two weeks' time, we will be discussing with the paris donors' follow-up group - french foreign minister bernard kouchner, norwegian foreign minister jonas gahr støre, commissioner benita ferrero-waldner and quartet special envoy tony blair - the state of play of our aid on the ground. the european union's role as an honest broker requires balance. but when we see the diplomatic struggle to describe the escalation in israel and gaza as "balanced" every time, we risk forgetting that it is not words but people who should be at the centre of our policy. the so-called 'annapolis process' must not be used as a cover for the continuation of settlement policy on the ground and the continuing isolation of the palestinian territories with numerous security zones restricting the freedom of movement of people. without freedom of movement in gaza and the west bank, the situation of the palestinian people cannot improve. without this freedom of movement, the establishment of a stable palestinian state is also inconceivable. security is not only a military dimension, security is only possible when the people of israel and palestine respect and honour each other. security begins with reconciliation! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the palestinians are not left behind. i would like to reiterate our support for president mahmoud abbas and prime minister salam fayyad. a key element of success is a regulation on the border crossings with the gaza strip. this includes, as a matter of urgency, a rapid solution for border traffic at the karni and rafah crossings. the european union also has a special responsibility in this respect. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east, and we are therefore very pleased that the european council has taken the initiative of adopting a resolution on the situation in the middle east. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i have nothing to add to your comments, or to those made by mr joseph daul, in the analysis of the situation. we all agree on the necessities, we all know the starting point. i do not need to repeat what is necessary from the european union's point of view, nor what the role of the european union itself is. i must stress, however, that it is not acceptable for us to take note without comment that what we are building with the funds provided by the european union is then meaninglessly destroyed again in the short term. all that has been said. i would therefore like to try to give the following consideration to what we as a socialist group have to say at this point in the debate: if we cannot achieve a principled approach to non-violence as a priority, there will be no solution for gaza and no solution to the spiral of violence that has prevailed for decades in the middle east. it is therefore essential to say that the principle of non-violence - the mutual declaration that we no longer want to use violence but want to reach a negotiated solution - is not an invention of this house, but the attempt made repeatedly in recent decades - including annapolis - was in principle nothing else but to reach a dialogue without violence. why does this attempt fail every time? the reasons are obvious and must be stated: because both sides have an interest in continuing the struggle or in preaching violence. on the one hand, there are attempts, particularly in the terrorist field, to ignore israel's right to exist and therefore to use force as a principle. on the other hand, in the democratic structures of israel, if a government is prepared to negotiate peaceful solutions, the whole thing is the subject of parliamentary tactical considerations. we are seeing this again. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fate of the people of gaza and the senseless blockade that has led to the chaotic and miserable conditions that exist there are the result of the belief of hamas, which came to power illegally, that only force is the way to go. this must be said as clearly as it must be seen that the authorities they have now seized are not being used to deter the radicals in their own ranks from resorting to violence. that is what is causing the suffering of the civilian population there! it is equally causal that those on the israeli side who destroy every small step forward because they are cooking their own soup, also manage time and again to counter the smallest steps forward by means of provocations. i cannot interpret the announcement of the continuation of settlement construction in any other way. who suffers in the end? women, children, defenceless people, especially in the gaza strip. but of course also the israelis living directly on the border. what we're seeing is this: the radicals need this conflict to legitimize their existence. this is a phenomenology that is very pronounced on both sides and that we have had to live with for decades. and to those radicals on both sides, we must say: you can never get to the finish line! you can perpetuate violence, but you will never achieve your political goals, because violence never achieves political goals. so perhaps the crucial point for europeans is that we take to heart what an israeli said yitzhak rabin. i think he said one of the wisest things in 1995: 'we must pursue the peace process as if there were no terrorism, and we must pursue terrorism as if there were no peace process.' that's the message to both sides. without such a message, there will be no peace! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, a week ago, elections were held in russia, and the result was as disappointing as could be expected. dmitri medvedev has won, democracy and human rights have lost. three days before the election, i met with representatives of russian human rights organizations in moscow. they reported on massive disruption of the opposition's election campaign and the persecution of independent journalists and human rights activists. the suspicion of electoral fraud cannot be dismissed either. the eu should now send a very clear signal that it does not accept this approach. relations between the eu and russia must be put on a more honest footing. the same applies to relations with china, especially today, 10 march, when the tibetan uprising against the occupation of the country by the people's republic of china was brutally crushed in 1959.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not saying that the commission has not been consulted on the matter, but i am saying that the commission has not been consulted on the matter. the european union must act as a united front, because only then can it set its own accents and only then can it have international weight. this is also true, and especially of the united states. the european union is a community of nations, and it is not a single country. however, the single entry of a member state can weaken the union as a whole, and considerably so. such a policy undermines the credibility of europe at its core. the united states is thus served the tools of division on a silver platter, which enable washington to obtain from individual states what it cannot obtain from the union as a whole. the agreement on the transfer of pnr data negotiated between the us and the eu in july 2007 has shown that it has been difficult for the european union to impose positions on the us. many europeans - and i am one of them - feel that this agreement already gives the us access to too much data on european air passengers. and we don't even know exactly how it's being used or to whom it's being passed. the question is whether the mountains of data are even useful in the fight against terrorism. i therefore find it quite grotesque that individual member states are now going beyond this agreement and engaging in the cow trade, 'exchanging' visa facilitation for the transmission of even more data. this cannot be in the interests of the citizens! the citizens of these member states may indeed enjoy visa-free travel to the us - as do other eu citizens - but at what cost to us all! no, that is a way of blackmailing europe! if the member states do not rely on unity and solidarity and if they do not strengthen their cohesion, it is not surprising that the americans do not take the european union seriously!
i have to say, madam president, we have also discussed this matter in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and there is no one among our colleagues who does not understand the situation of the new member states, particularly in the area of visa policy and behaviour towards the united states. but we also have old member states - in this case, greece was addressed - that are just as waiting for the united states to change its visa policy. so the right is not questioned, but we are asked whether what is legal is also legitimate. in this case it is not legitimate, because it undermines a common approach of the european union and thus also hinders the conclusion of an agreement which would affect the entire territory of the european union. you have to take it one step at a time. we have just been able to achieve accession to the schengen area. the next step is to see how we can achieve a global settlement in this area. in conclusion, i find the threat of the lisbon treaty to be absolutely shameful!
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i should like to begin by pointing out that directive 95/46/ec (the ‘data protection directive’) applies to data controllers established in the community. it also applies to controllers not established on the territory of a member state when such a controller uses equipment situated on the territory of a member state, unless such equipment is used only for purposes of transit through the territory of the community. the directive ensures rights to all individuals, whatever their nationality or place of residence and regardless of whether they act as consumers or not. it lays down substantive provisions imposing obligations on data controllers and recognising the rights of individuals. it also prescribes sanctions and appropriate remedies in the event of breaches and establishes enforcement mechanisms to make them effective. we follow closely developments in technology and associated challenges, in particular those relating to the protection of privacy and personal data. as far as transatlantic cooperation is concerned, we maintain regular contact with the united states authorities responsible for monitoring safe harbour – the department of commerce and the federal trade commission – in the context of which questions relating to the protection of personal data are addressed. issues posed by new technologies and their worldwide deployment are also examined. in this particular case, which is the merger of google and double click, the case is still being analysed by the commission in order to decide whether the envisaged merger is in line with regulation 139/2004/ec (the ‘merger regulation’). we will adopt a decision soon. however, it can be said that the commission has carried out an extensive analysis of the economic aspects raised by the proposed merger in order to determine whether it is compatible with common market rules. companies are required to comply with national data protection laws implementing the data protection directive, and national data protection authorities are the bodies responsible for enforcing compliance by those entities which process personal data within their territory. a merger between different entities does not exonerate the parties to the merger from their obligations under national data protection principles. indeed, any decision the commission may take to approve a merger is without prejudice to the obligations imposed on the parties by community legislation on the protection of privacy with regard to the processing of personal data. irrespective of the approval of the merger, the new entity, in its day-to-day business, will have to respect the fundamental rights recognised by all relevant instruments, including, but not limited to, privacy and data protection. national data protection authorities are therefore charged with the task of ensuring this compliance and, if necessary, taking appropriate measures to enforce compliance.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the internet is a great blessing. new technologies none of us can imagine our work today without the internet. this new technology also leads to an unprecedented exchange of data. but where there's light, there's shadow, and that's what we're seeing here when billions of data sets are stored for a long time. in the specific question, commissioner frattini made it clear that the merger of google and doubleclick now required the application of the european union legal framework and that the merger had to be examined. we shall wait for that examination and then draw our political conclusions from it. the basic question is how we deal with data protection on the internet, because it is not a matter of concern to large or small companies - to the user - how data protection is handled. there are no easy answers because at the heart of the question is whether the ip address is also personal information. this is the case with fixed providers, but there are also a plethora of other providers where the ip address does not automatically reveal the identity of the user. in our view, there would be a negative impact on data protection, and even the disclosure of data would be possible. the need for legislation must always be assessed in the context of necessity and proportionality. there are also a lot of benefits for the user in making the data public. the key is that he consciously decides on the data transfer and can also have it. this means that the user must have information rights be able to find out about the data stored about him and there must be clear rules on how to deal with the transfer of data, the sale of data. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of internet services, and it is hoped that the commission will be able to take a number of initiatives to improve the quality of internet services.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to admit, i like this catch-the-eye rule, especially when the clock isn't running. we certainly have a lot to discuss in the area of data protection. some colleagues from the green group raised the issue of the collection of data from private companies and individuals. certainly, mergers such as google and doubleclick raise some questions. however, you should also be careful not to mix things up. if many frogs quack, it's still a quake. so that means we should not forget to understand the technical processes behind it. we are very close to the subject - and this is particularly true of my group - particularly on the internet and, of course, also on the question of data protection, and we are often very emotional. but to understand how the internet and data collection work, i first have to understand the technology behind it. in that regard, i do not think that mr weber's approach is so wrong as to first examine the extent to which ip addresses may constitute personal data within the meaning of directive 2002/58 on the protection of personal data in the electronic communications sector. in some cases, this can be combined with user data to obtain very personal information. on the other hand, with the technological development we have today, when, for example, refrigerators automatically retrieve recipes from the internet, the question of whether the ip address of my refrigerator is really personal data is obsolete.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be brief. i listened with interest to the various speeches on the report drawn up by mr albertini. it can be said that the concerns expressed by mr albertini in a very clear and concise text are really quite in line with what the commission and your transport commissioner want. in short, it is true that mobility must be changed rather than reduced. that's the whole problem. i'm not going to respond to every remark, every observation; we have noted all this. i would like to say, however, that in order to make the necessary modal transfers, we must provide ourselves with infrastructure. i think, mr albertini, that we must insist on this point, because europe is not sufficiently aware that it will only succeed in implementing the necessary modal transfers if it has the infrastructure and the investment. on the other hand, it is true that we must also have extremely advanced research into new engines and new energies if we are to meet the challenge of sustainable mobility. i cannot say, as i heard earlier, but everyone was positive that this would be wishful thinking, good intentions, because i would still like to point out what has already been achieved: for example, the classification of trucks into euro categories according to increasingly sophisticated standards, up to euro 5. this classification of trucks has been said to have reduced co2 emissions by 30 to 40%. i would like to take another example: the european union wants to reduce emissions to 120 g co2/km in the future; this is a goal that is currently mobilizing the entire automotive industry. this brings me to echo a very wise remark by mr rack, who said that we must be careful, because the industry must also be able to know the objectives and the framework to be followed in order to adapt. this is a point which bothers me very much: we must set clear objectives so that all research and industry will be aligned with these objectives. there, i won't insist too much. i will say, of course, that the measures that must be taken must maintain the necessary mobility and be effective in reducing the negative effects, while remaining acceptable to citizens and businesses. in june we will bring this method to bear on external costs and we will see how - by mode of transport, gradually, because not everything can be done in one day - to integrate them into the pricing, so as to have tolls which are really educational and which inform not only transport operators but also passengers about the more or less polluting, more or less environmentally friendly nature of transport. i really hope that the albertini report will be a bit, if i may say so, another bible for everyone. because we are, today, really doomed to find the paths of this sustainable mobility. i would like to thank parliament for making a very valuable contribution to the commission in this area.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the rapporteur on the 2008 budget, kyösti virrankoski, has said all that is necessary. we are therefore discussing today, on the basis of a commission proposal, the mobilisation of the solidarity fund in application of point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement. we are certainly not spending large sums in the area of the solidarity fund or other special instruments compared to the total budget of the european union, but they are ultimately used to help people and regions affected by natural disasters on the ground, and these disasters - storms, fires - obviously occur with a certain regularity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we also learned very clearly the challenges faced by the people and authorities affected and the extent of the damage caused by these floods in june and july 2007 with an estimated total of €4.6 billion . the commission's proposal to mobilise eur 162.387 million from the solidarity fund for this specific case was expressly supported by us in the committee on budgets on the basis of this hearing and our discussions. i would also like to point out that we are expecting further mobilisations of the solidarity fund in the coming months. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency, and so on. this is an essential part of a long-term strategy if we are to be credible in the long term. it also means - and we are doing a little better than in other cases - that we should all make it a fundamental objective to use the solidarity fund for a maximum of six months in the future. all are required to: the national authorities must provide all the necessary documents and applications in due time, the commission must deal with the case on the basis of the rules in force, and we in parliament must then move things forward in a rapid consultation. let me address one last point, which has to do with the corrective budget. in view of the difficult negotiations and the pending final legislative procedure on the galileo satellite navigation system, i expressly support the rapporteur's suggestion that a budget line be set up for the first half of the year for administrative management. this is the right way to develop the appropriate administrative structures within the commission. but we are not yet satisfied with the arrangements for the future interaction between the commission, the european space agency and the galileo supervisory authority. the legislative procedure must also provide at least a means of avoiding duplication of effort and developing appropriate administrative management structures in the new conditions of the galileo satellite navigation system. there is still a certain need for dialogue which we hope to satisfy as soon as possible.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to say that i agree with the comments made by the rapporteur, mr capoulas santos, that fisheries and the revenue that is derived from the fisheries partnership agreement form a very important part of the budget of guinea-bissau. we are now working in a spirit of partnership as against the traditional fisheries agreements where the objective was to go and catch fish, pay for the fish caught and leave. these fisheries partnership agreements are modelled on the basis of helping the country concerned to build its fisheries infrastructure and to build related sectors so that there could also be a diversion from pure fishing to fish-related activities like aquaculture, where that is possible. the aim is also to see to it that the fishing activities that are carried out by our fleets under a fisheries partnership agreement relate only to the surplus. for example, in this case, at our request, an evaluation study was carried out at the end of 2005 by an independent external consultant, whose recommendations in terms of management and conservation of resources have been taken into account, together with the scientific advice provided by guinea-bissau’s research institute following the 2006 trawling campaign. furthermore, the protocol includes a number of binding measures in its annex iii, with a view to implementing a management plan for the global fishing effort in the guinea-bissau exclusive economic zone. according to the fisheries plan, guinea-bissau committed itself to reducing the fishing effort on shrimps and cephalopods, maintaining in 2007 the existing agreements with third countries and the european community, preventing the mobilisation in 2008 and subsequent years of fishing opportunities granted to third countries from 1 january 2007 which have remained unused, not granting any fishing opportunities for chartering in these categories, and revoking and formally terminating all agreements with european companies, associations or enterprises. in addition, datasheets 1 and 2 of annex ii, applicable to fin-fish, cephalopod and shrimp trawlers, provide for the possibility of biological recovery periods. with regard to shrimp fishing, guinea-bissau has also undertaken to increase the mesh size from 40 to 50 mm, in keeping with existing legislation in the subregion. i would say that it is in spite of these fisheries partnership agreements that a lot of illegal fishing activity is carried out and a lot of private licensing is granted to third countries not belonging to the european union, and it is by virtue of these fisheries partnership agreements that we can control and manage our own fishing fleets so that they fish in a sustainable manner in guinea-bissau and other waters. so i have to say that, yes, i believe that it is beneficial to the third country concerned for the european union, for the european community, to negotiate and enter into such fisheries partnership agreements under the new regime. i agree with you, however, that the previous regime did exploit the resources, but the new arrangement is that we are only interested in negotiating agreements on the surplus, so that if the stock in the third-country waters is already fully exploited or overexploited we do not enter into a fisheries partnership agreement. if it is underexploited, then we only enter into an agreement for the surplus, and we do our utmost to see to it that our own fleets, at least, do carry out and do maintain the commitments undertaken under the agreement.
i declare the 2008/2009 session of the european parliament open.
today we are celebrating the fourth european day of the victims of terrorism. it is a day we must remember to remember all the people who have been innocent victims of terrorism. the terrorist attacks in madrid on 11 march 2004 - four years ago today - and in london on 7 july 2005 claimed many lives. with them, many families have been torn apart by barbaric terrorism. on friday last week, the terrorist organisation eta killed again. isaías carrasco, a socialist local politician, was shot as he left his house in mondragón. i would like to express our deepest condolences to his family and all his relatives. as president of the european parliament, and personally, i want to assure you that the memory of the victims of terrorism - wherever they may be in the world - will remain with us. today we dedicate our memorial to isaías carrasco and all the victims, to assure the victims of the madness of terrorist attacks of our respect and sympathy. they are and will always be present in our hearts and in our work. our sympathy and solidarity with all the families of the victims is a duty for all of us. the european parliament is actively involved in the fight against terrorism and in supporting the victims of terrorist attacks. i cannot repeat often enough that there is no justification for terrorism. that is why we must act together in this fight on the basis of the law and with the full force of the law. i would ask you to rise from your seats and to pay silent tribute to the victims of terrorism. (parliament adopted the resolution)
the next item is the commission's statement on the 2009 annual strategic planning.
president of the commission. − mr president, i am very pleased to present the commission’s annual policy strategy for 2009, which sets out the main policy priorities envisaged by the commission for next year. as you know, the objective of the annual policy strategy is to spark a dialogue with the other institutions, in particular the european parliament, on where the priorities should lie next year. this dialogue is essential to ensuring proper preparation of the commission work programme for 2009. 2009 will be a special year, a transition year of great importance marked, i am confident, by the likely entry into force of the new european treaty, the treaty of lisbon. 2009 will also be symbolically very important because we will have a chance to celebrate 20 years of the march of freedom since the fall of the berlin wall, so it is a very important opportunity to commemorate freedom and the reunification of europe. it will also be the year of the election of a new european parliament and a new commission, so what we do in the first six months of 2009 will set the mood for the european elections. the smooth implementation of the lisbon treaty will ensure a european union fit to tackle the challenges of the future. i hope and expect that we will see the finishing touches to the most ambitious system in the world to tackle climate change and promote energy security. and it is particularly important that we do it in the first half of 2009 at the latest, so that the european union can be ready to make a decisive contribution to the global negotiations at the copenhagen conference at the end of that year. but first a word on 2008. given the institutional changes to come and, in particular, the end of the legislative term, the commission has made every attempt to ensure that the new legislative proposals included in the 2008 work programme are scheduled for adoption by the college before the end of 2008. thirty-five legislative initiatives are foreseen in the work programme. we will work hard to try to minimise those likely to come in the closing months of the year, such as the framework directive on consumer contractual rights, the review of the energy taxation directive, and the directives on the conditions of entry and residence of seasonal workers and trainees. we will also make every effort to ensure that these proposals are presented according to the envisaged timetable to make this possible. i very much hope that parliament will be in a position to deliver its first-reading opinion on all the proposals flowing from the commission work programme before the end of this parliamentary term. i would like to underline that, as far as the commission is concerned, we are fully on track to deliver all the strategic initiatives we have announced and, hence, to repeat our record performance of an implementation rate of 96%, which we achieved in 2007. it is the highest implementation rate ever in the work of the commission. as regards 2009, the commission will stick to its ambition of delivering a europe of results, bringing concrete benefits to citizens. we will focus on completing what has been started since the beginning of our mandate and make every effort to achieve the strategic objectives defined in 2005 and to address the challenges ahead. this will, of course, require close cooperation between parliament and the commission. the entry into force of the reform treaty will also require the commission to present a number of proposals to give force to its provisions, and i will highlight here those proposals that will promote greater democracy for, and greater participation by, europe’s citizens, such as the citizens’ initiative. we look forward to discussing with parliament in the coming weeks and months how we can best progress with these proposals in the first few months of next year. the main policy priorities which the commission envisages for next year are structured around five pillars. first, promoting sustainable growth and jobs will remain at the heart of our agenda and of the renewed lisbon strategy. we will also pursue the implementation of the innovation strategy, the deepening of the european research area and the follow-up to the single market review. in this context, i am looking forward to the second-reading adoption of the european institute of technology – one of our flagship actions – later today, and i would like to congratulate this house on the excellent job it has done on bringing this to fruition. major effort will be put into promoting the transition to a low-emissions and resource-efficient economy. the copenhagen meeting will be a major rendezvous to reach a global climate change agreement for the period beyond 2012. europe must prepare its ground well and maintain its role as the pioneer on climate change. work on how to assist with adaptation to the impact of climate change will need to be pursued. in an era of globalisation, we should strive to make a reality of the common immigration policy. work in this area will draw on the communication on immigration to be presented in june 2008. we will also focus our attention on delivering policies of direct interest to citizens through a common area of justice, fashioning a european response to chemical, biological and radiological threats, the european union health strategy and through enforcing food and product safety rules more vigorously. the revised and modernised social agenda will also guide our actions in a comprehensive approach to enable europeans to realise their potential and benefit from globalisation, and will cover mobility, integration, education and non-discrimination. the key concepts for this social agenda will be access, opportunities and solidarity. finally, we will pursue our objective of consolidating the role of europe as a global partner. enlargement negotiations will continue and the western balkans association and stabilisation process will be further developed. we will implement the neighbourhood policy and launch operational partnerships with african countries under the joint european union-africa strategy. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty will significantly raise the union’s external profile. to translate this new framework into action, a major task for the commission will be to help establish the european external action service – all this for 2009, if all the timetables, as we hope, are respected. the year 2009 will also be an important year in terms of preparing the ground for the future financing of the union’s policies. the results of the consultation now under way on the budget review will help us to prepare the ground for the next multiannual financial framework, to be proposed by the next commission. as in previous years, the aps proposes communication priorities for 2009. in the run-up to the european elections, the commission will seek to maximise its work in partnership with the other institutions and to help spark a lively debate on european policies. the annual policy strategy is only the beginning of the process, leading to the adoption of the commission’s legislative and work programme in october. the commission looks forward to regular dialogue with parliament on the priorities to be taken forward in 2009. i understand that parliament intends to adopt a plenary resolution on the commission’s legislative and work programme in september, a couple of weeks before we adopt the work programme for 2009. this plenary resolution will follow on from the summary report reflecting the results of our regular dialogue. it should provide us with a fully-grounded, politically-backed indication of where parliament thinks the commission should focus its commitment and its policies in 2009, in good time for the drawing-up of the work programme, focusing on european added value and in full respect of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. therefore, my message to you today is that i am very much looking forward to this possibility of working with you on this very important programme for 2009. let us work together to keep up the pace of action in 2009, so that europe continues to deliver concrete results for the benefit of our citizens. (applause)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission is developing its legislative programme for 2009 from its strategic priorities prosperity, solidarity, freedom, security and a stronger europe in the world , fully in line with our support, and from these priorities for 2009 sustainable growth, jobs in the age of globalisation and a resource-efficient, low-carbon economy. these are the general nomenclature for legislative work in 2009 and, mr president of the commission, i would like to assure you of the explicit support of the epp-ed group. if you take some of my additional remarks as criticism, it would be a translational misunderstanding. i want to encourage you. what's the point? first, next year is the year of the new covenant. and secondly, it is an election year, and the people will be talking to us. in your introduction you say that, as regards the new treaty, if the national ratification processes are completed, the treaty of lisbon could also enter into force in 2009. mr president, why are you so distant? why does it not say: the commission will work with all its strength and all its determination for this new treaty, of which it is as much the guardian as it is of the existing treaties? the commission is not prepared to accept this. you go on ahead! secondly, the citizens are called in next year, and the citizens are not interested in every detail of the legislation, but in the big picture, the attitude. and here, cutting red tape is actually something that you could use to win the approval of the citizens. so let us see a new culture of subsidiarity! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. we'll support you in that too. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, mr president of the commission! we do not yet have a concrete work programme for 2009 on which to comment. but the commission's strategic planning shows that no major strategic changes are expected in the coming year. the commission wants to improve its communication work, to promote europe and to raise citizens' awareness of the lisbon treaty. wouldn't a referendum on the reform treaty be the right way to involve citizens in this process? do you really think the turnout will go up if you just explain how wonderfully the existing policies work and that you have to simply continue with the existing concepts? what many people are experiencing in real terms is less social security, stagnant wages, severe restrictions on workers' rights, rising prices for basic services in local public transport, health, energy and water, education and childcare. all this is happening in the face of rising profits for large companies, which are also threatened with relocation of production. the commission talks about the importance of lifelong learning for employability, the importance of flexicurity, and i often wonder where the security is in the commission's legislative proposals. the commission writes of the need to strengthen competitiveness, and here again it is mainly the already strong who are to be freed from burdens - that is, social responsibility. they call it administrative burden. but if we want social, environmental and consumer protection standards, then we must also adopt and implement them! i do not see anywhere in your strategy the idea that perhaps the overall concept of the lisbon strategy, the concept of liberalisation and privatisation, is simply not working in the interests of the majority of people in many places, especially not in the area of public services. in the field of foreign policy and trade, the important role of europe in the world for peace, security and stability is emphasised, and the priority of multilateralism and partnership is mentioned. your paper says doha remains one of the top priorities. but there is nothing in it to show how the eu intends to contribute to the success of the development round. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in addition, the global europe external trade strategy is a pure foreign trade promotion strategy for european companies, which cares little about regional and sustainable economic, social and environmental developments in partner countries. there is nothing to read about small and mediumsized enterprises! and you wonder why countries like china are opposed to dumping? they even wanted to continue to eliminate the largely inadequate anti-dumping instruments! the commission is talking about improving the operational and crisis management capacity in third countries. in the light of what has just been said, i ask you: does it not make much more sense to tackle the social, but also the economic, causes of crises and conflicts? change your strategy so that we can win over the citizens for a european union!
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i believe that this is the last time we will have a debate on the political strategy in this form, because the treaty of lisbon is supposed to give us a new model. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would therefore ask you to allow me to make a few comments from the budgetary control point of view or to make some additional suggestions in order to keep up with what mr nassauer has said. we are having considerable discussions with the commission at the moment on the protection of the community's financial interests, and the commission has announced that it will make considerable efforts in this area. we would like to see these considerable efforts - for which we are grateful and which we also need - also incorporated into the annual programme. the work you promised to do would have deserved it. we need new ways of recovering funds wrongfully spent and we also need to strengthen cooperation between the commission and the member states. all this is an impressive programme of the barroso commission. we therefore suggested that this should be included in the commission's annual programme. it would have deserved this, and it would have given us the assurance that it is as important to you as you say it is.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the agricultural sector, the commission plans to successfully introduce the health check in 2009. as rapporteur on the own-initiative report, i expect that with tomorrow's vote the commission will have a much better idea of parliament's position on this issue, and i expect that position to be taken into account in the legislative proposal which we expect in may. i welcome the commission's particular effort to promote the concept of quality in agricultural production, particularly through its endorsement of the so-called green paper for 2009. we believe that the added value created by high quality standards will become an increasingly important starting point for our farmers, also in view of the increasing competition from imports. i also noted that the commission will be proposing new proposals on food safety, animal welfare and health, together with better monitoring and better rules. i appeal to the commission to be reasonable. it is not possible for our farmers to be faced with more regulations and at the same time imports from third countries not be subject to these regulations. mr president, the commission intends to present in 2009 a large number of proposals to reduce the administrative burden, which will not change the political objectives or the level of ambition of the existing rules. i very much hope that this will be true of our farmers, particularly with regard to cross-compliance rules. i think that the annual policy strategy is missing an important issue, namely the question of food security. the commission has often used the word, but our citizens must have a secure guarantee of how they can continue to provide their own health care.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i want to thank all of the members for their contributions to the debate. i think that, together with the resolution that you will adopt and the dialogue with committees and respective commissioners, this will provide a very good political input into the work programme for next year. this is what i have always argued for: a more political approach to the aps. i would like to comment on a few issues that have been raised here, which i think are very important. first, concerning the lisbon treaty: as you know, the commission is fully committed to this new lisbon treaty; we are fully committed to its implementation, and we are preparing – not anticipating, but preparing – to be ready for implementation as from early next year. we are focusing, for example, on the citizens’ initiative, mentioned by several speakers; the implementation of the new provisions for working with national parliaments; the accession to the european convention on human rights, and also the external action service, just to mention a few of the things that need good preparation without anticipating. this is the balance we will have to strike. i hope there are no doubts about our commitment to the lisbon treaty. we also engage – and this is very important – in the communication and information activities concerning this new treaty because, regardless of the method of ratification, we have a democratic obligation to engage with citizens by informing them, by listening, and also by explaining what we are doing and the content of this new treaty. regarding the political agenda and the balance between the social and economic agendas, also mentioned by several speakers, i think that this is a very important debate, and these are precisely the questions we will have to take through the dialogue with the committees. clearly, there are different emphases and priorities here on the different sides of this house. i think this has to be dealt with in the resolution, which we look forward to; the results will be in the legislative and work programme in the autumn. this is where i think we have to focus much of our attention on this political debate. i would also like to comment on a question raised by mr bonde. i am afraid i do not understand what he is saying, because for some time we have been sending our documents and proposals to the national parliaments. this has been a very good exercise and has been very much appreciated by the national parliaments. we have learned a lot from it, and it has increased the understanding of what goes on at european level in the european institutions at national level. this is also good practice for what will come in the new treaty; not only that, we have also engaged in a dialogue with national parliaments on the annual policy strategy and on our work programme, and we have been asked to go there to explain and answer questions that the national parliamentarians have had concerning our plans and work programme. i think this has helped us a lot: we have learned from it, and national parliaments have an opportunity to anchor better and explain better what happens at european level. therefore, i really hope that this will be a good experience for us. to engage the national parliaments in this is not lobbying; rather, it is shaping the european agenda. this means more democracy, i would say. finally, concerning the financing: you will be having this discussion separately, because this is part of the problem – we already have a financial framework until 2013, and we are all facing the limits of the financial frameworks. after 2009 we will have no additional human resources, so we will be careful to tell you not to ask us to do a lot of new things, because we will not have the manpower to deal with it. we have to realise that we are conducting this debate on the financial framework separately. i also want to say to ms gräßle that, in the area of structural funds, the commission has recently adopted a very ambitious action plan to ensure the integrity of the money spent in this domain. together with the member states, which, as you know, spend the money on the ground, the commission intends to undertake all the necessary controls to ensure that every euro spent is well spent. we will regularly report on this to the committee on budgetary control; this is our definite objective with the control of the money that we spend. finally, let me say that we can together focus on the communication priorities, because 2009 will also be a very important year in making sure we have a lively debate before the elections in 2009. as you know, the communication priorities for 2009 focus on the lisbon treaty. in the first chapter of this annual policy strategy, the small business act is mentioned. this is part of the lisbon strategy and our review of the lisbon strategy: to focus also on exactly the things that you have mentioned. i think they are indeed very important. we will deliver results from the lisbon treaty. we will be reforming the budget, we will focus on growth and jobs, and we will have energy and climate change. this will guide many of our communication priorities, and we hope for a lively debate on this european policy. finally, let me also draw your attention to the proposal to have an interinstitutional agreement on communication. we hope this will provide a much better framework for our work together in this field, so thank you again for the debate. we will have a follow-up on all of this and also the details that you have mentioned, which i think belong more to the dialogue between committees and commissioners.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at a later part-session. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the recommendation for second reading on the european institute of innovation and technology (15647/1/2007 - c6-0035/2008 - 2006/0197 (cod)) by reino paasilinna, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (a6-0041/2008).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not first of all, i would like to congratulate our rapporteur, mr paasilinna, and also commissioner figeľ. it was a real feat, how we got this done in such a short time. the rapporteur has always been diligent and careful and has involved us all very much. i would also like to express my special congratulations to president barroso. it is clear that this project was his personal initiative in january 2005. we've been building it for three years. that's great. we are fast in europe, and that is a brilliant achievement on our part, and it must be said at this point. it was only three years, although it was a critical issue. we are dealing with education. education is the cultural supremacy of the countries in germany, the country i know best, and of course it is under special observation by the member states. nevertheless, we have managed to reach a compromise. i refer to the financials. how long have we wrestled with the question of where the money is supposed to come from? and then we managed to turn the eu budget upside down in a first step. in the past, it was always just subsidy, subsidy. you know the debate! and now for the first time it is called innovation instead of subsidy! that's great! i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on agriculture in particular, because they had to make compromises here, which they did. we have also been able to settle very quickly the issues at issue, such as the question of the eit's independence, the length of the pilot phases, the relationship between the eit and the seventh framework programme, the question of cannibalization and the question of the so-called eit label, i.e. everything that should be indicated on this label when a project is under the eit flag. we've worked it all out. now it's about the implementation. at the moment, commissioner figel has said that the management board is being prepared and the european parliament, we thank you for including us, will be looking at who is on that management board because we think it is very, very important. but it's also going to be about the choice of topics. mr swoboda has just touched on the subject of energy. in fact, we should focus on steering europe's major response to climate change through the eit, such as the issue of energy efficiency, etc. but we also need to talk about the location. i still think strasbourg is an excellent location for an eit. it has never been raised so clearly before, but we must address it. this building here is a great location for an eit and for a european research council. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i apologize for not being able to be there at the beginning of the debate. the previous speaker has just spoken of galileo. i had to conduct the trilogue negotiations with galileo, which is why i was late. i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr paasilinna, who has done an excellent job with his shadow rapporteur. i would also like to thank commissioner figel who has been very active in the discussions, so that we can vote today on a report which will also receive broad support in this parliament. we started our debate three years ago with the question: do we need a european institute of technology and innovation? i say quite clearly: yes, we need this institute! we have to catch up on technology transfer. we have excellent scientists and researchers in all 27 countries. but what we lack is the transposition of the excellent results of research into marketable products and services. the institute of technology the institute of innovation is intended to make its contribution to this. the commission's proposal was to set up a new institute in the green field. we in parliament said: no, we do not want that! we want to build a network structure that will involve companies, universities and research institutes in europe. we have done that with our report. i hope that we shall have a broad consensus. we're on the right track. it was also good that we did not discuss the location in our debates. otherwise, mr chatzimarkakis, we would not be finished today and would not be able to complete this dossier, but we would probably still be debating in five years' time whether we need a technology institute.
i am not going to go into detail. this is a beautiful day for the european parliament, because we are welcoming a former colleague of ours, a colleague who is now the president of the republic of estonia, our former colleague hendrik ilves! welcome to the european parliament! (applause from the centre and the right) i am not going to go into detail. when we experience such an hour, it is good not to look only at the present but to remember what a long way it was that we had a colleague with other colleagues from estonia and from latvia and lithuania, if we limit it to the baltic states first, who were elected representatives and represented their countries, free countries, which were dominated for decades by totalitarian communism, after the freedom was won in estonia. this colleague was elected president of his country by a democratic decision of his people. he is an estonian personality who, like few others, is linked to the future and, of course, to the present of europe. he was the foreign minister who negotiated his country's accession to the european union, then an observer in the european parliament for a year from 2003 until the 2004 direct elections, and finally a member of the european parliament until his election as president of the republic of estonia in september 2006. president hendrik ilves took office as president of estonia on 9 october 2006. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a great pleasure to welcome you here in the european parliament, which will be celebrating its 50th anniversary tomorrow. your visit is the beginning of the celebrations, so to speak, and i would ask you to address the european parliament. once again, a very warm welcome!
president of the republic of estonia. - dear friends, first of all, happy birthday. good friends, respected colleagues, colleagues in the truest sense of the word. friends i've missed for the last year and a half. i look at you and i see all of you. from down here, you look a lot more like you do from the 131st chair i used to sit in. you have no idea how powerful you are. you, the european parliament. i'm imagining it; i had to leave here to figure it out. but now allow me to continue in my current role as president of my country. this year, as estonia enters its fifth year as a member of the european union, we are no longer beginners, we are no longer new members. i really believe it is time to discard the term 'new member state' as an anachronism that explains nothing. (applause) today we have no new and old members. it's members only. the term 'new member state' does not even mean 'poor' today, because many of us have adopted the 'old member states'. today we form coalitions within the community based on interests or party positions. these unions can take innumerable forms, consisting of large or small, industrial or commercial countries, etc. but it's not based on the length of membership. here and today, i want to look ten years ahead. the time when we're all old or senior members. the time of the first horrific european civil war of the 20th century. we say that our union is the answer to the second european civil war; that it is the way to organize things in our part of the world so that the horrors of the second world war cannot be repeated. but we must not forget that a third or more of what is now the european union grew into independent political entities from the ashes of the first world war. finland, estonia, latvia, lithuania, and after 140 years of absence, poland, the former czechoslovakia. like hungary and austria today, which emerged in the 20th century as empires collapsed, as international superpowers collapsed, and as new states were born, based on the right of nations to self-determination. i mention this because many of today's member states - my home country among them - began their journey by getting rid of forced membership in large, despotic or undemocratic multinational organisations. in other words, empires. estonia, like many others, managed to break out twice. yet we are all here together today to build our own, our own new transnational alliance. and the identity. our european union. not because we've been conquered or occupied, but because we have the freedom to do so. and because we believe it's the right thing to do. it's like our new right to self-determination. i mention this because for the first time in ten years estonia has the right and the responsibility to preside. i very much hope that when that time comes, we will no longer struggle with the questions we face today. and that's why i want to talk today about things that are important for at least a ten-year time frame. and the reason i'm talking about these things in the end is that our election cycle and our challenge cycle don't move in the same rhythm. we're good at dealing with problems that fit into a four- or five-year cycle. but the challenges and needs of the european union today - from energy to the environment, from competitiveness to enlargement, from a common foreign policy to the migration of peoples - are all strategic issues that require bold and courageous action over a period of time far longer than two or three elections. ladies and gentlemen. even if we cannot predict the future, certain developments and dangers are generally understandable. with two, or two seats, you can't complain about the lack of discussion. global warming and the decline of fossil fuels. yet these two problems are global, and the solutions, which are not possible without the european union, can also only come from a global perspective. but the union also faces other serious challenges. if we don't deal with them, in maybe ten years, certainly in a quarter of a century, we'll lose some of the relative prosperity and success that we enjoy today. these challenges and needs are all linked to the competitiveness of the european union. where are our competitors? within the eu or in the world? the answer is clear: both sides. we compete in the marketplace within the european union and globally. but if we look at the long-term trends of globalisation, we have to thank jean monnet and jacques delors for the internal market, because it was created at a time when globalisation was not yet a tangible phenomenon. it is the internal market that helps individual european countries to remain globally competitive. opening up europe, opening up to competitive pressure from market forces europe is the engine of global competitiveness. the current state of mind in the european union does not always give cause for optimism. for two reasons. firstly, the european union's lisbon process, the unfortunate failure to deliver on our own best-intentioned innovation and competitiveness programme. (applause) thank you very much. secondly, the growing protectionism in the european union, not only in relation to the rest of the world but also within our own borders. let me address these two issues next. at a time when my own country was just emerging from fifty years of soviet captivity, i wondered with anxiety: how long will it take to build the infrastructure needed for all of estonia? yet, in areas such as information technology, we were able to start at the same place as others. public and private investment in information technology allowed estonia to reach above the eu average. by the end of the 1990s, we had reached a point where few in europe could offer a comparable service to e-government and banking, for example. my country's contribution to the development of information technology has paid off, allowing us to increase our competitiveness. but that alone is not enough. in general and in the wider context, estonia, like the rest of europe, is lagging behind in the fields of innovation, research and development. innovation, let us admit, is now coming first and foremost from the united states, where maintaining a high level of competitiveness depends in turn on the input of brains. it depends on the brighter heads coming from europe, but also from india and china. we have to get serious about this for once. we're very tough on immigration. our children are increasingly choosing not to study math, science, engineering and science. we have made our own choice and restricted free competition within the european union to the services sector, which is the most competitive in the world. competition - or rather the lack of it - in the european union also has an impact on security. given the importance of energy, it is understandable that many countries in the european union want to protect their companies from competition and do not support the liberalisation of the energy market. that reaction is understandable. but today, europe's largest energy source is a country that has declared itself an energy superpower and proclaims on its foreign ministry website that energy is an instrument of foreign policy. in order to avoid the division of the european union into imperialist and imperialist policies and to prevent the manipulation of the member states in the interests of better gas supply conditions, the creation of a common energy policy is indispensable. (applause) along with the energy commissioner, who has powers similar to the trade commissioner. the liberalization of the internal energy market is also an indispensable precondition for a common energy policy, as we have a common trading regime. so where are we when we look to the future? the level of internet penetration of koreans and japanese is already significantly higher than that of most europeans. and they have it at a much better price for broadband. asia and the united states are preparing or the united states is also training and recruiting far more engineers and scientists. all of this is leading to a gradual decline in europe's and our competitiveness in the global economy, unless we do something about it. the first step for estonia is a reform pact. i would like to thank the portuguese presidency for the excellent work it has done in finding a solution. without a qualified majority, we would be paralysed. without the president and the foreign minister, we'd be way below our weight class. an example of such under-delivery is the neighbourhood policy. a well-known think tank, the european council on foreign relations, says, and i quote: "contrary to popular opinion, russia's neighbourhood policy is more advanced, better coordinated and more effectively implemented than that of the european union. russia devotes far more political, economic and even military resources to influencing its neighbourhood than does the european union. that doesn't speak well of our glorified soft power. but it is the long-term question of neighbourhood policy that is at the heart of this: where will we be in 10 years' time? there are two aspects to this question: how big are we and what is our environment? how big will the european union be in 2018? we don't know, but it's up to us. we may not be as big as some of us would like, but we're certainly bigger than we are today. there are countries to the east and south of us that will certainly never join. i think one of the key issues is that the differences in economic prosperity and political freedoms between the european union and its neighbours must not be so great that we are hit by a big wave of illegal immigrants or political refugees. yet it seems that we have not even learned from our own wonderful experience of past expansion. we're going to increasingly divert money out of the country without making reforms a condition. we support the development of countries which are clearly antagonistic to the european union on trade policy through the activities of our development banks. we also have to realize that our model is not the only one today. francis fukuyama himself now admits that the hegelian dream of history's irreversible march toward liberal democracy is a pipe dream. what is the benefit of the world bank's anti-corruption loan terms for developing countries when sovereign wealth funds offer better deals without commitments? we were wrong to think that we lived in a de-ideologized world. on the contrary, the rise of authoritarian capitalism as an alternative to a democratic market economy is perhaps the latest ideological, intellectual and moral clash we are witnessing. (applause) yes, we need to rethink our policies, but that's not enough. we need more courage, we need more vision and understanding of ourselves and the world in 20 or 25 years' time, when even an economic giant the size of germany can seem dwarfed by india and china. to be ready in a quarter of a century, we need to start planning today. i very much hope that in the forthcoming european elections the parties will not be competing for the preservation of today but for the vision of the future. ladies and gentlemen. democracy is for the people, by the people, and with the people's consent. that is why we have created the institutions which, with the entry into force of the new treaty, will develop europe. but let us not delegate our tasks to the institutions. the creation of an external service or the extension of the scope of the qualified majority will have little success unless we deepen our fundamental understanding of the european interest. the creation of joint consular posts will increase bureaucracy. making the use of the veto more complex, a welcome step for europe in itself, will be a small step if member states begin to feel that their interests are not being taken into account. we must return to the most basic concepts on which the european union is founded. namely, that the national interest is best protected when we all give up a little bit of it so that the union as a whole can win. i don't mean giving away money, buying off members who are hostile to politics. i am referring to our place in the world, both individually, as a nation state, and collectively, as the european union. if we are to talk about a strong europe, we must understand the same truths as we do about domestic politics. a country is strong in the world, or even in europe, when it is strong at home. these governments, with strong support, can act decisively on the international stage. i am convinced that the same problem exists throughout the european union. in order to give voters a stronger european feeling, we need to go beyond the european commission's proposal for students to spend a year at a university in another member state. in our own countries we must promote the idea of getting to know each other as citizens of our countries, not just as officials. this means, of course, that we must also raise the level of language learning. in ten years' time, we should see a european union where every student speaks one of the languages of another member state. and i'm not talking about english, which, because of its global dominance in science and business, entertainment and the internet, can no longer be considered a foreign language. i mean, for example, a portuguese person could speak polish, an estonian person could speak spanish, and a swede could speak slovenian. we also need to think more regionally. parliament has shown that it can play a greater role here than anyone can imagine. i am proud that the initiative, in which i was also involved - the baltic sea strategy - is one of the first european union policies to have its origins here in the european parliament, rather than in the council or the commission. today it is becoming a european union programme. (applause) parliament is the link between the institutions and citizens of the european union, ensuring that the union functions. because only here, dear colleagues, dear members, can we find that delicate balance between the interests of the voters and the interests of the union. no other institution can do that. can't do it as well as you. the european parliament it is no less important for the citizens of europe, for the citizens of europe, that we all know who we are, where we all come from and how we all got here. right here in these halls, a colleague once asked me, when another member of parliament was speaking about mass murder in his country: why can't you forget the past, why can't you focus on the future? if we all say we know the history of europe, it may be uncomfortable to hear that the europe we all know is really only part of europe, as the great european historian norman davies has convincingly pointed out. yet the european union today owns all of europe's history, in all its glory and in all its misery. we are the owners of bismarck's social reforms, but also of salazar's regime. but also the owners of the world's first constitutional democracy, but also the owners of the brutal repression of the internal security service. this is our europe. we know much less about the fact that the first constitutional democracy was poland and that the repressions took place literally behind the walls of wirtschaftwunder. our task, my dear colleagues, is to know our europe. it was already expressed by one of the great europeans of the 20th century, salvador de madariaga, when he lived in exile from the franco regime, and he did so in the following terms: "this europe must be born. and he was born when the spanish say "we chartres", the english "we krakow", the italians "we copenhagen" and the germans "we bruges". then europe will live. and then the spirit that guides europe will be able to say the words 'fiat europa'. that's what salvador de madariaga said. if madaria and i are to reach the future, we must learn to know each other. to know each other's past, because only then can we build the future together. that's what we're going to be doing for the next ten years. my dear colleagues, today i have tried to bring to your attention some of the challenges we face in the future. europe is far from ready. we have a lot to do. in my home country of estonia, there is also a great deal of work to be done. when we have a big job to do, we want to be "working hard". get us all to work! thank you. (the members stood up and applauded the speaker.)
i am not going to go into detail. by standing up, by giving so much applause, you thanked the president of estonia for his speech, which was equally sympathetic, friendly to us as a parliament, but above all forward-looking. mr president, you spoke of something which is at the heart of europe, namely the understanding of each other, that we know how we think. and if we know how we think, then we know how we can act together in the end. i remember when you spoke of the exchange of young people, and i think, ladies and gentlemen, that we can be proud of this: when the financial perspective was to be adopted and the funds for youth exchanges, for the erasmus programme, for lifelong learning, were to be drastically cut, we raised our voices and said: the only way to achieve the financial perspective is not to reduce but to increase the funds for meetings between young people in particular, so as to make it possible for there to be understanding and a sense of community in the european union. (applause from the centre) let me finish by saying, and i'll do it with a little bit of inner movement: the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe. what we are doing today, also here in the european parliament, is a response to the experience of history. the fact that you have brought this to our attention makes today a great day for the european parliament. we can only go forward if we remember history, if we learn from history and then act together on the basis of mutual understanding and the spirit of community, as you said, mr president, for our common europe. i would like to thank mr hendrik ilves, president of the republic. (applause from the centre)
the chairman of the council. − let me say first of all that the bureau welcomes the report by mrs jeggle on the proposal to increase milk quotas as a constructive and balanced contribution to a debate which has been going on for several weeks or longer. the european commission has proposed, on the basis of the favourable market opportunities presented in its report and analysis, an increase of 2% in the national milk quotas from the next quota year, 1 april 2008. the question of milk quotas cannot, of course, be confined to a question of percentages; it is a wider question linked to the review of the common agricultural policy. that is why the council has also confined itself, or not confined itself, to this question, but it has triggered a wider debate, essentially parallel to that which we have on the whole package of health inspections of the common agricultural policy. i have to say that very similar concerns have been raised in the council and in parliament in relation to this proposal. for example, calls were made for predictability and stability in the dairy sector. concern was expressed about areas with less favourable farming opportunities where there is little or no alternative to traditional dairy production. on the other hand, there were strong demands that european farmers be allowed to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the developing international market, as well as the european market. despite the complexity of these questions, these concerns, these matters, we are convinced that the health review of the cap can also provide balanced answers and solutions to all these concerns. and i would add here that the council also joins parliament in this regard in its initiative to have the commission draw up a comprehensive, long-term strategy for the european milk sector or a proposal for such a strategy. we believe that the so-called soft transition to the abolition of milk quotas should be a fundamental part of this strategy, ensuring a smooth transition to a more market-oriented milk policy and predictability in the sector. the council therefore intends to invite the commission to examine all appropriate means in this regard. we believe that the commission's proposal for a 2% increase in quotas from the next quota year can be considered as part of the package and that the other parts will be dealt with appropriately in the context of the health inspection. finally, i would like to add that the proposal will be on the agenda of the agriculture and fisheries council next week and i hope that it will be adopted. so, if the conditions are met, it will start to apply, as i said, this year, or the quota year 2008. finally, let me thank all those who contributed to the debate on this report, in particular the rapporteur. we believe this is a balanced and stable view, and we thank you for your work.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think it is a very good signal from the presidency that the minister for agriculture is present here today to participate in this very important discussion. i shall start my speech in the traditional way, by thanking the committee on agriculture and rural development and especially the rapporteur for the very constructive report on the proposal to increase the milk quota system by 2%, as was stated by the minister, for the coming milk year starting on 1 april 2008. many people have pushed the commission to alleviate the very tight dairy situation. in the council, a large majority of member states invited the commission to put a proposal on the table on increasing quotas. a resolution here in the european parliament, adopted in october 2007, on rising food prices also called on the commission, as a matter of urgency, to propose a temporary increase in milk quotas. in december 2007 the commission presented a market outlook report that showed that there clearly is, and will be in the future, a growing demand for dairy products. your report also confirms that we should increase the possibilities for producing more milk. i think everybody would agree that the commission’s proposal is fairly prudent and clear, with a predictable and equal outcome for all the member states. may i respectfully suggest that your amendments seem not to pay full attention to the need for predictability and equal treatment for farmers? the amendment to make the increase of 2% voluntary for member states, if applied, would be likely to create some difficulties. firstly, i think we would all agree that we are looking for more market orientation and higher productivity. therefore, i personally feel that the producer should be given the choice of whether or not to produce more milk. i think we would also agree that dairy farmers need predictability – certainty about their production possibilities within the quota system – and i do not think that a voluntary system would contribute to this. as a solution, member states have the opportunity to decide not to distribute the quota but to keep it in the national reserve. this is a possibility, although i would push the member states and i would be happy to see the quota distributed, because i think it is the most proper way. the amendment to use balancing-out of the quota at the end of the quota year is not a new idea. in fact, it is something that the commission has been looking closely into, since such a theory could facilitate the use in some member states of the unused quota in other member states. but i think we would also agree that theory is one thing and practice is another. firstly, i think it clearly introduces uncertainty for milk producers. they would then have to make their best guess of how the situation would look at the end of the production year and, on that basis, try to make a choice for their production, and only the following year would they know whether that production was levy free or not. i think, with all respect, this is not to the advantage of the decision taken on the dairy farm. it is obvious that milk production implies heavy investment, and we owe it to our farmers to have a predictable system until the quotas disappear in 2015. secondly, who would benefit from this? i do not have to point out that it would largely benefit only a small group of member states. this already makes it politically difficult. the most important thing is that it will benefit those producers who have already exceeded their quotas – those who have produced too much – and not those who have tried to keep within the limits of the quota system. so there is no certainty that this would lead to more milk being available on the market. thirdly, in my view, this also goes against the idea of simplifying the common agricultural policy. i fear that implementing rules in this area would be extremely complex, and i am not in favour of making our system more complicated in a situation where there are only seven years left of the lifetime of this quota system. all in all, i note with pleasure that we all agree on the necessity for increasing the possibilities for the dairy sector in europe to increase its production. it is an extremely important political signal to me and to all the member states that the agriculture committee unanimously chose this line after the very divided opinions at the beginning of this discussion. i therefore send my biggest congratulations to the rapporteur for that achievement. i hope i will have the same rate of success in the council.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as i have said, the committee on agriculture and rural development unanimously rejected the commission's proposal to increase the quotas for the coming milk year by 2%, i.e. 2.8 million tonnes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the basis of the 2003 decisions, 11 member states will have a quota increase of 0.5% on 1 april this year, which is equivalent to 700 000 tonnes more milk in the european union. the intensive debates with my colleagues on the committee on agriculture have shown that there will be no formula and no easy way forward for the debate. opinions were widely divided: all the positions were represented, from the general and fundamental rejection of any increase in quotas to an increase of 5%. we have nevertheless succeeded in reaching an inter-group compromise which was adopted unanimously without any objections or reservations. i would like to thank all the members for their constructive cooperation. the compromise adopted has two central points. commissioner, you said it. i have a different opinion on that. firstly, the establishment of a european balancing mechanism to compensate for under- or over-compensation of existing national quotas at eu level. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quota system is not over-taxed. secondly, as from 1 april, member states may opt for a voluntary national quota increase for the quota year 2008/2009. we want flexibility, not rigidity! this compromise will enable us to make more efficient use of the quotas already in place. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to use the european quota system in the context of a common european internal market system. commissioner, you always stress that the existing milk quota in this system will expire in 2015. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. let us also think of the former lakes of milk! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe that this is the only way to ensure that the whole sector is promoted and preserved in a way that is future-oriented. in particular, this instrument should be used for dairy farmers in less-favoured areas and in areas of absolute grassland. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to incorporate this request from the european parliament in your legislative proposal on health checks. the application of article 69 is not, in our view, sufficient because it is not clearly defined in terms of concrete measures, particularly for the sector mentioned above. it is pure cynicism for a high-ranking commission official to say to a farmers' meeting that farmers should not complain about the fact that producer prices are falling again, since they have already been able to get by on 27 cents a litre of milk. this is a disregard for the legitimate interests of an entire profession, which i, as a member of a parliament which has put democracy on the map, cannot accept!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to thank elisabeth jeggle for her work on this report. the current quota system is set to run until 2015. so it's going to be around for exactly seven years and a few days. i think it is wrong, madam commissioner, to increase the milk quota by 2% now. i would be perfectly willing to accept a 2% increase in the quota for the new member states, because their consumption of dairy products is still well below the eu average. the commission's proposals are not, however, in line with the commission's proposals. for the first time in many years, our dairy farmers have been able to obtain a decent price for milk for a few months. our dairy farmers, who milk their cows 365 days a year, 366 days this year, morning and evening, deserve to earn a better income than they have in the past. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quota is not exceeded. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. it will not be a soft landing, it will be a hard landing if what the commission has in mind for the quota sector is implemented. i think there are hoelgaards and rasmussens in the commission who would like to see a brutal drop in milk prices. you can't let them get away with this. we are already having problems without enlargement, and we must try to counteract this. the bavarian csu members will vote against the report tomorrow because they are against enlargement. this is not against elizabeth jeggle, it is against the quota increase.
the commission has already done so. two weeks ago, four and a half thousand dairy farmers from all over europe were in brussels. they have joined together in the european milk board and they are demanding adequate prices first. this has already had a considerable effect in germany. we have producer prices which were around 40%, they are now coming under pressure again. the dairy farmers are therefore calling for a quantity-oriented market policy. if this trend is to gain momentum, if it is to influence agricultural policy, can you imagine that in 2015 a commission could resist politically the demands of this movement to extend or re-establish the quantitative regime in a flexible way?
the chairman of the council. - first of all, i would like to thank everyone for their participation in the debate. it was, as is obvious, very complex, very rich and it showed, in fact, all the problems and also the differences that we have in the member states. i would like to stress that the presidency, and of course the european parliament, have undoubtedly given this proposal ample time to be considered from all sides. if the conditions for the adoption of this proposal are met, including the opinion of the european parliament, this 2% increase will apply from the following quota year, i.e. from 1 april 2008. however, i would like to stress that the debate on the future of the dairy sector in the european union will not end here, it will not be concluded, but it will undoubtedly continue, and it must continue in great depth in the context of the so-called health review of the common agricultural policy. and i can assure you that as the presidency we are determined to lead this debate and to achieve, i think our common objective, and i can say this, a balanced and predictable long-term strategy for the european dairy sector. i would like to thank once again all those who took part in this debate, and in particular the rapporteur.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think that, after the discussion here today, we can all agree that dairy production is still a very important part of our common agricultural policy. it seems to me that today you could pick and choose between different opinions, covering the whole range from zero up to more than we have suggested in our proposal. i think it has also shown the diversity that can be seen in different member states, and that is perhaps a reason, in response to mr parish’s remarks, for not being bold enough. but at the end of the day we need to find a compromise between the various opinions. i would just like to make a few comments on some of the issues that have been raised. on this increase in quota, it is voluntary for member states either to distribute it to the producers or to keep it in the national reserve. my clear preference will be to distribute it. member states can give special preference to young farmers and those who are suffering as a result of the prices that they have to pay for the quotas. i think that, if we want to introduce an increase as from 1 april, we need to do so with a fixed percentage in all member states. if we now start to discuss special figures or increased percentages for different member states, there will be a battle that will go on for months. so let us agree that what we are discussing now is a 2% across-the-board increase. i actually do not think that we are so fundamentally divided in our opinions on where to go. i think we can define our goal, but there may be some differences of opinion between the commission and parliament on how to get there. i think we can all agree that we should not put the sector at risk. this is exactly why i have proposed this soft landing. a ‘soft landing’ actually means that we increase the quotas over the years and maintain a situation where, at the end of the quota system, in 2015, we do not see a very steep drop in prices overnight, which would be the result if we did nothing. i therefore think we have chosen a proper and acceptable approach. i do not underestimate that there may be regions in europe – mountainous regions, vulnerable regions – where a total abolition of the quota system could put the continuation of milk production at risk. therefore, we will be prepared to look, during the health check, at solutions to help those regions. i think the most proper tool is article 69, a possibility for member states to top-slice the direct payment to the farmers and use it for specific areas. i do not consider the idea of setting up a milk fund for restructuring to be a solution. where do we get the money from? how much money do we get? how do we distribute the money between the different member states? i think there are so many unanswered questions concerning this fund, and we have limited money. we would have to take it from our own budget, and then other producers within the agricultural sector would have to pay for this restructuring fund. so i do not think it would work. in my opinion, the main reason for increasing milk production is the fact that we have emerging markets in asia. why should we not take our share of those growing markets? we know how difficult it is when others already have a foot in the door and we come afterwards and try to get our share. we should be there from the very beginning with our high quality products. those dairy producers – dairies, industries that are doing well – are those that are producing high-quality products; here, in particular, it is cheese. we have an extraordinary brand in europe on high-quality cheeses, so why do we not use it and take our share? as the minister said, we will look again at this issue in the health check. i am sure that will be as animated a debate as we have had today, because i think dairy production will never be boring.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we have heard a wide range of opinions. we have also been able to see that this is a serious matter for everyone here today, that it is not something to be taken lightly, that everyone has given it a lot of thought, and that we all have a responsibility at home, of course, to the consumers on the one hand and to the milk producers on the other. to return to the markets: i don't know if i believe in the chinese market. there is a lot of things that you see in this european union and in this market today. but we have a single market here. and this single market helps to be strong, also in the context of globalisation and general liberalisation. so let us make this milk quota into a european single market. we have that option. only a strong, stable and organised internal market can enable agricultural markets to meet the challenges and, in particular, the usual fluctuations of the world market. sustainable economic development means that economic, ecological and social aspects must be in harmony. all three components must be equally at the centre of our action. the european agricultural model stands for sustainability and consumer safety and it still does! farmers are good at both. they maintain the countryside, which is the basis for tourism, they contribute to energy security, they produce high-quality food and they provide the economic basis for rural areas with their jobs. the social benefits are increasingly being offset by so-called compensatory payments to farmers. the more food must have its fair price! our overall political responsibility is more than just to go down the road of liberalisation with open markets!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the first round of parliamentary discussions on the so-called health check of the common agricultural policy will be concluded tomorrow. this health check is not a fundamental reform of the common agricultural policy. it will continue to modernise existing policies on the basis of experience gained since 2003, where appropriate, and adapt them to changing circumstances. the commission should take our opinion very seriously. it is a good basis for the upcoming negotiations on the legislative package, but also for the post-2013 budgetary assessment. we in the committee have supported the continuation of the reform towards more ownership and market orientation, but at the same time we have put more emphasis on the aspects of food safety and social and environmental responsibility - especially in the light of current market developments and the new challenges of climate policy - than we have done in the past. we also want more flexibility for member states in switching systems, i.e. more opportunities to introduce further decoupling and to uncouple from historical benchmarks. however, the debates in our committee have also shown that this is not useful in all areas before 2013 at the earliest. in the case of animal premiums, or in those countries which are fully decoupled but have a strong livestock sector, a sudden change of system would, in the light of the current market situation, cause irreversible negative structural disruptions. the same applies to some smaller crop-related market systems, such as those for potato starch, dry grain or rice, on which a regionally important processing industry depends, which has invested heavily in recent years and which has to make a high capital contribution. we voted in committee for the introduction of a new flexible instrument to promote a specific environmental and regional production or specific sectors, known as article 69, but also called for the rapid formulation of new basic safeguards against environmental crises and those that are increasingly expected in the face of climate change and the increasing interconnection of agricultural markets. the instrument also aims to test a new form of private-public risk management, which is urgently needed in the face of the decline of other instruments and the new uncertainties. a few words about the regression and modulation: our farmers expect planning certainty and it is simply not appropriate to cut and re-divide between 8 and 53% of direct income support with a mandatory 5% modulation just four years after the implementation of the last reform. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rural development funds are used in a way that is compatible with the common agricultural policy. and these proposals are particularly relevant to full-time businesses and those which have improved their competitiveness in recent years through mergers with legal entities. but we have made proposals on how to reconcile the general policy objectives with the economic requirements. we must find new ways of doing things in the interests of sustainability and competitiveness. we are grateful above all to all those who have contributed to this own-initiative report, and i thank in particular my colleagues and all my colleagues from the committee on agriculture across the political groups.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. in a strategy paper you have tried to make a health check on agricultural policy, not so much on agriculture - it is doing relatively well at the moment, although not in all areas. the question was: is agricultural policy up to date? i have to say, measuring the temperature is not enough, but you also have to develop a therapy if deficiencies are detected. and you found fault, you said so yourself in your speech. i do not want to go into detail now, that will take too much time. so it is now up to us to take measures that are socially acceptable. the point is that agriculture must of course contribute to climate stabilisation. it does, but there are parts of agricultural production where it will be difficult to make proposals without restrictive intervention. it is particularly important that we ensure that public funds are distributed in such a way that the measures we consider necessary can be financed. it is a defect that the so-called second pillar, rural development, has been cut in the medium-term financial planning and has had to accept cuts of over 20 billion euros, as proposed by the commission and also by parliament. it is therefore urgent that we should have a reallocation of funds. this is also necessary because we need social acceptance in 2013. the commission has already made some proposals, and the committee on agriculture, and above all the rapporteur for the european parliament, mr goepel, deserves credit for having given the proposals you have made a practical context which will also lead to equal treatment in the competition between farms. you have proposed a reduction of the quota to 45%. the committee on agriculture has adopted this proposal on the rapporteur's proposal, but with the added benefit that the farms which employ a large number of workers now have a way of making use of their wage costs. we were together in mecklenburg-western pomerania, we saw these farms, and you know that the only way to avoid distortion of competition or to achieve justice is to introduce this measure. i hope that you will now also stick to this rule in your legislative proposal. if that were not the case, we as a parliament would still have a chance to save ourselves in 2009. we are in the process of taking part in the decision-making process, and we are in a very different and very comfortable position.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr goepel on his balanced report. we must not put at a disadvantage mature, competitive structures in agriculture. the commission's proposal to reduce the number of jobs in the community by a factor of three is therefore rejected by the committee. in the case of direct payments, there must be no discrimination on grounds of size, otherwise jobs would be threatened on a large scale. i also believe that it is still right to end the milk quota system in 2015. in view of the rising milk prices in booming world markets and the enormous export potential that this brings, this system no longer seems to be up to date. in this context, a meaningful revision of the 2003 reform must not only provide european farmers with reliability and planning certainty, but also be another step towards a market-oriented development of our agricultural system.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the goepel report because the time has finally come to abolish or fundamentally reform instruments such as quota taxation, animal premiums, export refunds and intervention prices. in view of the global increase in food demand, more market economy in agricultural policy also offers more opportunities in european agriculture. i am concerned about some of the compromise language. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all this carries the danger that we will be clinging to the old market order through the back door. we must really limit exceptions to regions with weak structures and define them for very narrowly limited production volumes! if we are too generous here, we will create distortions of competition which we cannot politically calculate. i therefore encourage the commission to give the market a real chance in the legislative proposals now before us.
the chairman of the council. - i would like to thank all members for an interesting debate, and i really think that the report is of very high quality and full of good ideas. i would like to say that parliament and the council have expressed very similar views on many of the issues in this debate, and i will not list the points, because there are many. i am convinced that this gives added weight to these opinions and at the same time provides a good basis for further cooperation between the two institutions. and i am sure that will be reflected in the conclusions that ministers are expected to discuss and adopt next week. i am sure that both institutions will look forward to the legislative proposals that the commission is expected to present in may in slovenia at an informal meeting, and i am sure that we will have an interesting debate at that event. finally, i would like to say that the slovenian presidency will be committed to the fact that the working part of these proposals will also be started as soon as possible, so that we can do as much work as possible under the slovenian presidency.
member of the commission. − mr president, i completely agree with mr nicholson that this is the first step in a discussion that is going to continue for almost the rest of this year and, therefore, i shall not go into detail on all the various questions that have been raised here today. i shall just pinpoint a few of the more important ones. first of all, a huge majority is in favour of the idea of more decoupling, and i am very appreciative of this idea. the idea of giving a member state the possibility to introduce a regional model is a chance for them to go further towards a flat rate and i have explained on various occasions why i think this is important. in order not to raise any expectations, i will be very direct and very frank on tobacco decoupling. it was decided in the reform of 2004 to decouple tobacco payments. as we are now trying to go even further in decoupling, the idea that some of you raised of extending the coupled payment for tobacco would be a step in totally the wrong direction. therefore, do not have any expectations that the commission will move in that direction. ms mcguinness said that modulation was like robbing farmers. i do not agree with this approach. i think the rural development policy will need more money in order to meet the new challenges – climate change and the reduction of co2 emissions will be the most important ones. we have to take into account, firstly, that the decoupled money will stay in the member states and, secondly, that modulated money is co-financed by member states and therefore you actually steer the money. you get twice as much as you deduct from the direct payment. this is an important message and we will come back to this in the legislative proposals. mr graefe zu baringdorf mentioned progressive modulation and the necessity, from his point of view, to include labour intensity in these discussions. i understand his point of view, but i can only say that this will be extremely bureaucratic and very, very difficult to manage, so i am very reluctant to enter into this discussion. i might be wrong, but, personally, i do not consider the introduction of codecision on agriculture a threat, as i heard suggested. i consider this a huge and natural step in a situation where the agricultural sector is so important, both from an economic point of view and because this is important for quite a lot of people. therefore, i welcome this change, but, on the other hand, it is important that we finalise this health check before the end of the year, otherwise it will be a health check for 2010 and then we are too close to 2013. that is the reason why, but, believe me, i am very happy with the changes that have been mentioned. concerning developing countries, the european union is the most open market for developing countries: we import more agricultural products than canada, the united states, australia and japan put together. this has to be taken into account when we talk about the agricultural sector. i should like to say to ms harkin that i have been informed that she has tabled an oral question. this will be answered in writing and, therefore, i am quite sure she will get all the information she has been asking for.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i am reminded of this discussion of figure skating: when figure skating is graded, you cross off the top and bottom marks and then you do the grading. so if i take away the extreme right-wing and the extreme left-wing views in this house, we have a result that we can all be very happy with and we can all live with quite well. i would like to thank you again for your support and cooperation. i would like to stress this once again, beyond the group's limits. i look forward to working with you on the legislative package!
the chairman of the council. − i would stress that the presidency considers that the key to responding to the current financial market situation is the consistent implementation of the three work programmes adopted by the council during the portuguese presidency. as you will recall, the council, in its ecofin configuration, adopted last october the report and the series of conclusions referred to in the oral question by the honourable member berès. a timetable is attached to these decisions. i should like to briefly mention the main lines of our efforts. the first focuses on procedures and principles for improving cooperation and handling of cross-border financial crises. one of the key objectives in this area is the finalisation and signing of a new memorandum of understanding which will set out common principles and guidelines for enhanced cooperation in the field of crisis management. the presidency expects the memorandum to be finalised during the informal ecofin council meeting in slovenia next month. the second main focus of work in the area of financial stability measures concerns crisis prevention, crisis management and resolution tools. the october timetable actually addresses all the identified weaknesses, namely the state aid rules, the deposit guarantee schemes, the rules on the winding-up procedure and the restrictions on the transfer of assets, and all in a cross-border dimension. let me briefly summarise the conclusions of the lamfalussy procedure review adopted at the ecofin council meeting in december and the accompanying timetable. while this theme is linked to financial stability efforts in some respects, the long-term issues of the supervision of cross-border financial groups have little to do with current market conditions. these concern national supervisors in particular and require their adaptation in a context of constantly evolving financial markets. i would like to emphasise the view of the presidency that we need increased convergence in supervision to ensure a level playing field. this refers mainly to the convergence of supervisory practices and not necessarily to the convergence of supervisory institutions. as regards the response of economic policy actors to the current financial market situation, let me stress the council's belief that the primary responsibility for the corrections lies with the private sector. only if the latter proves incapable of taking effective action should legislative initiatives be taken. the ecofin council discussed this issue, the issue of financial stability, at its last meeting on 4 march. the european council will be discussing this issue later this week and i hope that it will agree with the progress made. the ecofin council will continue to monitor the situation closely. i have already mentioned the april meeting of the ecofin council, the informal meeting in slovenia, and we will of course be happy to listen to the european parliament's proposals.
member of the commission. − madam president, the oral question tabled by ms berès on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs gives me, on behalf of mr mccreevy and on behalf of the whole commission, the opportunity to inform you of the ongoing work on the review of the lamfalussy process. throughout last year, the european supervisory model in the field of financial services was examined at the highest political level. these discussions showed that there is a strong political will to strengthen the current supervisory architecture based on the lamfalussy committee structure. last year we saw the european parliament, the council and the commission each submit their assessment of the functioning of the current process. it is now time to move forward and to present concrete proposals. this stems from the ecofin council’s conclusions and the accompanying road map which were adopted last december. this road map sets out what needs to be done to improve the lamfalussy process and in particular to improve the committees of national supervisory authorities, the so-called ‘level three’ committees. the commission’s work is centred on three main areas following this agreement of the road map adopted last december. first, the commission was requested to consider how to clarify and strengthen the role of the level three committees and to set out concrete options for the informal ecofin council next april in ljubljana. the main objective here is to bring forth the contribution that the level three committee should make to supervisory cooperation, supervisory convergence and possibly to crisis prevention and management. the informal ecofin, by the way, will also discuss the work of a taskforce focusing on crisis management on cross border institutions. second, work is ongoing by a working group of the commission to review supervisory powers, voluntary delegation of tasks, supervisory cooperation and exchange of information. we are working together with the three level three committees on these tasks to deliver the requested results before the end of the year. considering the enormous scope of these reviews, it is, however, still too early to indicate today what the outcome of this work will be. third, the commission is looking into the possibility of financially contributing to the activities of the level three committees. this is an urgent problem as these committees in general, and in particular the committee of european securities regulators (cesr), have reached their budgetary limits. the commission will be looking for a stable legislative solution which would ensure continuity in eu financing. in our view, this could best be achieved by agreeing the modalities of eu funding in a decision adopted by the european parliament and the council. i have no time to give the parliament details of the road map adopted last december by ecofin, but allow me in half a minute just to read some of the commitments that were sent to the commission. we are working on all of these things. by april 2008 the commission should prepare an assessment of how to clarify the role of the committees and to consider all the different options towards strengthening the working of these committees. by mid-2008, the level three committees should for the first time transmit to the commission, the european parliament and the council draft work programmes, and thereafter start reporting annually on progress. this committee should also explore the possibility of strengthening the national application of guidelines, recommendations and standards; they should introduce in their charters the possibility of applying qualified majority voting coupled with a comply or explain procedure; they should study the possibilities of introducing a common set of operational guidelines for the operation of colleges of supervisors and monitor the coherence of the practices of the different colleges of supervisors. the level three committees and the commission should suggest – also by mid-2008 – a timetable for the introduction of eu-wide reporting format for single data requirements and reporting dates. by the end of 2008, the commission has also committed itself to conduct a cross-sectoral stock-taking exercise of the coherence, equivalence and actual use of sanctioning powers among member states. the commission should consider – also by the end of 2008 – financial support under the eu budget. and, as i said before, it should study the possibilities for eu funding under the eu budget of the development of tools to help build a common supervisory culture by the level three committees. the commission and the committees should review financial services directives to include provisions to enable the use of voluntary delegation of tasks, analyse the options for voluntary delegation of competences and so on and so forth. so we are working a lot and we should work a lot in the coming weeks, months and before the end of this year. but we are working at the same time on the financial turmoil by following the road map that was adopted in october 2007 by ecofin. a report on how we are working on this road map to tackle the financial turmoil consequences has been sent to the european council for discussions in a few days in brussels. we contributed to this report with a communication. the economic and financial committee the other day also presented its own report to ecofin. we discussed both reports at ecofin level and these reports are on the table for the discussions of the heads of state and government next thursday and friday. these reports convey the simple message: in order to respond to the concerns of our citizens and investors we must act swiftly and in a consistent way. we need to restore confidence and stability as soon as possible, having carefully considered all the options and in line with the better regulation principles. i think everybody acknowledges that this road map, adopted a few months ago by ecofin, provides the right answer to the problems identified. work on these road map commitments is on track. in the months to come it will be crucial to stick to the timetable and show that the eu is responding effectively to the crisis. our regulatory and supervisory framework must remain robust and keep pace with market developments. although the basle ii rules have only been fully implemented as of 1 january 2008 further improvements have already been planned in the capital requirements directive. this work has taken on increased importance in the light of the recent turmoil and maybe there will be other aspects of basle ii that we will need to address in the time ahead. we intend to adopt a new proposal for this directive in october so that discussion in parliament and the council can take place before the adoption of a new directive in april 2009. we appreciate very much the involvement of parliament in all these discussions. we need parliament’s contribution and we appreciate this involvement and this contribution. on 1 april – a few days before the next informal ecofin – mr mccreevy will go to the committee on economic and monetary affairs. and, as you know, from a macro-financial stability point of view, i, as the commissioner for economic and monetary affairs, am always ready to contribute to the discussions in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and in this parliament. finally, on macro-financial issues, it is true that we need to improve the supervisory and regulatory framework – it is absolutely true at european level and at a global level – but we will not put an end to these bubbles, this excess of liquidity, this risk to financial stability unless we seriously tackle global imbalances. this is the real origin of these imbalances. we cannot solve the current or previous problems, or perhaps the next challenges to the functioning of the global economy, without tackling the global imbalances that are still there.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already done so. we started the project of a european single financial market in 1999 and have been pushing it forward ever since, and we are on a successful path. we must now ensure that market developments do not overtake political developments. the lamfalussy process was a step in that direction, and level 3 could be a way of bringing supervisors in europe a little closer together. but i stand by what commissioner almunia said, namely: act quickly and effectively. we're experiencing a subprime crisis or subprime turbulence. the americans - whether it is the sec, the white house, politicians or the prosecutors in new york or washington - are already drawing up the relevant summaries and considering what measures are required, while in europe the finance ministers are still thinking about what direction to take. the finance ministers refuse to promote a european supervisory structure, and i am not speaking to a european supervisor. but what the finance ministers - and here i am addressing the council in particular - have to answer for is that europe is not present in the international debate on how to deal with this problem. we will only be able to adopt the rules of other nations, such as the americans, in the end. i am reminded of the katiforis report. in 2003-06, following parmalat and enron, we called on the commission and the council to take a similar stance on rating agencies. the commission analyses everything in europe, except when there are crises, when there is no analysis. the european union does not analyse hedge funds, for example. i therefore urge you to put aside your lethargy, to get out of the realm of national egoism and to continue to work to make the european financial market not only a success story in europe but also a global norm.
member of the commission. − madam president, on northern ireland, i would firstly like express my congratulations in relation to the new atmosphere and what i would describe as very positive expectations of gradual and sincere reconciliation and commitment to the shared values. i even plan to go there, which may be the best answer. i think that greater involvement of northern ireland’s students, teachers and professors in eu exchanges and cooperation in the erasmus programme would also help to bring the larger european community and populations closer. so i plan to visit this part of the european union. secondly, as regards volunteering, it is a very important topic because volunteering is an expression of solidarity, humanity and togetherness. on the other hand it is also a non-formal education or learning process. we need it for employment, new skills, new knowledge and social skills and also for the promotion of citizenship and for values which unite us. we do more than we used to. for example in the new programme, youth in action, there is a much bigger volume of money and importance in the european voluntary service. it is now more open to international engagement. we have larger numbers and i think this is one of the answers. this year we would like to come up with an initiative on volunteering where more recognition and better conditions for volunteering could be developed. of course we need member states to participate and i am happy that france in particular is willing to deal with volunteering as a topic – volunteering and young people. this morning i met the minister responsible for health, youth and sport policy and we agreed on certain priorities. this is one of three priorities for the youth area under the french presidency, so we will take some steps forward.
member of the commission. - madam president, thank you for the question to mr bernd posselt. i would say that culture and its funding at national level are the responsibility of the member states. it is a principle of subsidiarity which we respect and which is important, but the european union has a role to play and seeks to help and complement the action of the member states, not to replace their responsibility. secondly, it is important to remember that the culture 2007 programme for the period 2007 to 2013 supports transnational or cross-border mobility of professionals in the field of culture, artistic works and cultural and artistic creation and stimulates dialogue between cultures. these projects must be based on the participation of at least three entities from at least three countries, and this also forms part of the answer to the question of bernardo posselt. cooperation between operators from the czech republic, austria and germany can therefore be encouraged if such partners are selected on the basis of the quality of the projects submitted in response to a call by the european commission. as regards specifically the projects from these three member states that were funded last year, i would like to remind you that the culture 2007 programme is only running for a year or so. the precise results on the type of projects funded in this short period are yet to be seen. it's just that at this point, all the results for last year's projects are not there yet. however, in the previous period from 2000 to 2006, as far as i can compare, a total of 116 cooperative actions were supported and 39 multiannual projects were co-financed, in which either bilateral cooperation from these countries or trilateral cooperation, i.e. from austria, germany and the czech republic, was involved. 28 of these projects were financed on the basis of the 2006 budget, thus enabling activities to be carried out in the last year of 2007. the full list of all approved and funded projects is published on the european commission's website, so i would consider this to be exhaustive.
thank you very much for your answer, commissioner. you spoke a lot about events in brussels earlier. but events in the regions are also very important, and that is why i have two short supplementary questions. firstly, you have just spoken of bilateral programmes: can purely german-czech programmes be included, or must three countries be involved? it could be slovakia or poland, for example, in addition to austria. second supplementary question: does this also apply to the euro-regions?
member of the commission. − guatemala, when i last looked at the list of acp countries, is not included in their number. we do not have any in central america. so, i would advise the honourable member to find different sources for his information, from those who actually live and work in acp countries.
member of the commission. − i am very sorry, i do not know what neighbours of kenya have taken this position. as far as i know, unless the honourable member can advise me which particular country she is talking about, they seem to have subscribed to the interim agreements in the same way as kenya. all i would say is that the interim agreements concern goods market access. they are interim agreements that were made before the wto’s deadline at the end of december so that countries like kenya, which are not ldcs and are therefore not covered by ‘everything but arms’, would have their trade preferences and access to the european market secured, so that there was no trade disruption after 1 january. it is for that reason that our counterparts in kenya and other similarly placed countries have recorded their satisfaction with the lengths we went to and the flexibility we showed to make sure that they came over the line by the end of the year.
member of the commission. − i strongly support that point and i would use this opportunity to appeal to our member states to fulfil what i regard as their side of the bargain by fulfilling the commitments they have made to provide aid for trade, to match the commitment that has been made by the commission. it is a very important commitment that we have made, which member states have previously said they would match. i hope they do so in practice now and live up to the expectations of our colleagues in acp countries.
member of the commission. − where our voice was heard was where it matters – amongst policy-makers, ministers and decision-takers. i cannot account for the press; the days when i could account for what was written in the press have long since passed behind me. in the case of many of our negotiating partners amongst the acp, they took the arguments very well indeed. having put in place interim agreements, in most cases now they are very keen not only to sign them fully, but to proceed to negotiate a full economic partnership agreement, to move on from goods to services, investment and other trade-related rules, because they know that is where the further bulk of the development value of these agreements lies. obviously, there has been a sort of cacophony put up about epas – in the main, though not entirely, by people who are suspicious of trade, are anti-globalisation (whatever that means), and who believe that acp countries would be better off, in a sense, more isolated from the international economy, but, i would say, trapped in the past. i do not think that has anything to recommend it, but it has the attractiveness of providing simplistic slogans which are easy to absorb and easy to write about, whereas the actual policy substance and content of what this is about is more complex. but those who take the trouble to grasp it see the value and see the potential benefits. that is why many in the acp are trying to grasp them.
member of the commission. − there is a sustainability dimension to all the trade agreements that we are pursuing by negotiation and the economic partnership agreements are no exception. however, we have to be guided by the interests of the acp countries and their negotiators and by their perception of their interests. so, whilst we will not be shy in putting such issues on the table, i cannot vouch for the reception they will receive from those with whom we are engaged in these negotiations.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. women in rural areas of the european union under this heading, we have collected facts and developed solutions together in the committee on women's rights and gender equality. i thank the members for their cooperation and the secretariat for its support. in germany, we have a word with wings: the country girl. in the past, even more so than today, everyone had their own ideas. some say they're creative, dependable, very values-oriented and strictly religious. others say they are women who live beyond the mountain, who know little or nothing and are therefore also stupid, perhaps even naive. neither of these things is the point. the rural areas in particular provide the best conditions for a full life, for families, integrated into the village communities, integrated into nature and the environment. we now know very well that women's life patterns are very different. but they must also be changeable, not fixed and constrained by the conditions of life around them. women today want to be active in their careers, and they also want to have a family. they want to and they can do both today. politics and society must create the conditions for this. the rural life offers opportunities and, of course, risks. it is the individual's own decision, after considering the circumstances, that causes women to move to urban areas or to stay in the village. statistics show that the well-educated women are the first to leave the villages. what is left are empty kindergartens, empty schools and, in the end, old and empty villages. so women's choice also has a demographic dimension. the commission estimates that rural regions generate 45% of gross value added and account for 53% of the workforce. the rural areas also have an economic dimension. the full potential of development must be exploited and developed. it is no longer enough to deal with the future of rural women in the context of the common agricultural policy alone. women are still active as farmers, but they are also employed as workers and employees, and very often they are also active as assistant wives in small and medium-sized enterprises or even as self-employed women. this is where we need to close the gaps. the position of women and wives in small and mediumsized enterprises needs to be strengthened in the social field, in the case of illness and in the case of old age. the lack of infrastructure in rural areas particularly affects women. women combine family and work, that is, they drive the children between school and leisure, they care for the older generation and at the same time they do not completely lose sight of their own interests. it has long been known that rural areas have a deficit in infrastructure - roads, post, medical services, fire services and emergency medical services. but the fact that additional problems, such as broadband, are now being added is unacceptable. women in particular need fast access via dsl to be able to connect to their many areas of activity. the participation of women in public life - in municipal councils, initiatives and associations - can bring about change, and it is in rural areas that special efforts are needed to achieve equal participation of women. i would therefore like to conclude by asking you to include women in decision-making bodies. they know best what needs to be changed, because they are always on the spot, and they are faced with work and family, while men do either one or the other.
member of the commission. − mr president, i thank the house for a very encouraging debate with some fairly dedicated speeches – i really enjoy that. the discussion we have had tonight makes it clear again that the situation for women in rural areas really needs specific attention. although i feel that some of you are a little pessimistic about the progress that has been made, i want to approach this from a more positive side. i think that quite a lot has been achieved, especially through the rural development tools, and i am confident that we are heading in the right direction when it comes to improving the position of women in rural areas. many of you have mentioned that mainstreaming the gender issue into our policy and broadening its scope to the wider rural economy will enhance its effect. i fully subscribe to this approach. we should not limit our focus to the farm sector only. embedding our policies in the needs and opportunities of rural society as a whole will create a multiplier effect that will also benefit the whole agricultural sector. the commission will closely monitor this aspect with the implementation of the rural development programmes. several of you mentioned the importance of broadband networks in rural areas. here i have to say that there is a possibility within the third axis – the diversification axis – of the rural development policy to go into areas that, from an economic point of view, are not economically viable for investors. those are remote areas where member states can use the rural development policy to secure a broadband connection. i can only encourage all member states to take this into consideration when they plan their investments or the use of their rural development policy. some of you also mentioned the ‘hidden work’ that is being done by women on farms. i acknowledge that our statistics do not always reflect this fact. we should, using all the different tools, try to encourage women to seize the opportunities to gain their economic independence by giving them the associated social rights. for me, better possibilities for taking up part-time work for women in agriculture would be a huge step forward in strengthening rural incomes and also to help sustaining life in rural communities. i must say that i travel quite a lot in rural areas and i am always very encouraged when i meet women who cross the borderlines and take part in the work of the different farmers’ organisations. i know it is a big step for the first women to enter into these organisations but sometimes it spreads and it is not so difficult for the next one, although it requires some change of approach on the men’s side to accept that women can contribute on an equal footing in this area. i think there is quite a lot more to be said on this subject, which should not be pushed into the background. let me assure you that i will wholeheartedly back all initiatives that can improve the position of women in rural areas, because i really think that we need this special approach from the female side to the diversification of rural areas.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank you for the contributions to the debate. we've had a really good discussion here in this round. commissioner, i also thank you for your statement that the review of directive 86/613 on equal treatment will take place this year, in 2008. we've been hearing about it, and we think it's time to check it out. we cannot adopt a european regulation to improve the situation of women in rural areas tonight. avril doyle, i know the situation for women is not the same everywhere. it would be boring, and we don't want that. but the women in rural areas have the same conditions, of course, and they have to contend with the same disadvantages as the women who live in the centre, in the city. we've established that here. we are encouraging the process of discussion and we are calling on the commission and the member states to finally bring about change. the report is intended to raise awareness of this. there are good examples in europe, and in accordance with the principle of best practice we want to highlight these examples for imitation. we can do a lot of good in that. we want to broaden our horizons. the rural women are not only farmers, they are also working women and they have to reconcile family and work. in the end, it's your own concern that makes you the best speaker. we need the participation of women on the boards. mrs mcguinness was just talking about happy mothers who can also give their children happiness. we will also have satisfied women if we do something for their equality, for their proper participation. and then the youth will stay in the villages, that's our concern. it would be interesting, commissioner, to have a list of all the many opportunities that women in the european union are finally being offered. we have repeatedly found that this is often hidden under the guise of other programmes. i think that the commission should be able to say that it is not a question of the commission's being too strict in its approach to the problem of the women's movement. this is always a problem, especially when it comes to splitting it up on the spot. perhaps we will do something about it and finally be able to say to our regional leaders: here we can make improvements for women.
member of the commission. − mr president, before going into the context i would like to thank the committee on agriculture and rural development and the rapporteur, mr tabajdi, for this very interesting and important report. parliament’s report clearly underlines the benefits of biogas production to the agricultural sector, but also to society. i fully agree with the emphasis placed on the development of biogas production. it has environmental benefits by reducing the emission of powerful climate-altering gases, such as methane and nitrous oxides. for this reason, biogas production further enhances the environmental sustainability of agriculture – there has already been a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emission since 1990 – and it also has obvious economic advantages as a useful alternative to natural gas in a situation where we now see that oil prices have exceeded usd 100 per barrel. the production of biogas from agricultural feedstocks has more than doubled in the period from 2004 to 2006. overall biogas production is increasing but i think that we can clearly do more. there is a large untapped potential in biogas production within the european union. on the commission side we are fully aware of this and we have put in place a number of important instruments to promote the production of biogas. our current green electricity directive with implementing legislation in some member states is an example of an important driving force. rural development policy also favours the development of biogas production. member states have the possibility to support investments, technical assistance and cooperatives and other activities enhancing biogas production and biogas use. implementation of the rural development programmes from the period 2007 to 2013 has only just started but i find that member states’ first programming is very promising and i am confident that biogas-related measures will be among those with the highest uptake in the area when we talk about bio-energy. measures included in the commission’s recent energy and climate package will give a further boost to biogas production in the coming years. particularly important is the 20% target for renewable energy. it is expected that biogas will contribute significantly to reaching those targets. biogas will also play an important role in delivering the 20% reduction targets for greenhouse gas emission from sectors that are not participating in the emission trading system. therefore we are in a very positive situation where we can kill two birds with one stone. i am convinced that biogas production will be a key element in the european union strategy to combat climate change and to make it possible for us to meet the kyoto targets. i agree with you that a coherent biogas policy is important. the eu initiatives are in my view coherent and they go in the same direction. nevertheless, i believe that this policy could be most effectively fleshed out and implemented at regional or at national level on the basis of local resources, needs and economic realities. in this respect, i welcome the recommendations concerning the simplification of the current legislative framework. they are in line with our ongoing discussions on simplification and better regulation, which represent a commission strategy very high on the agenda. finally i have to say that i have doubts on specific targets for biogas, and i heard a remark by the rapporteur. i think that the 20% target for renewable energy already encompasses biogas. biogas can also contribute to the achievement of the 10% biofuel target. if we introduce a special biogas target we would run the risk of not being focused enough. setting a specific target for biogas would introduce further administrative burdens for private operators and public authorities. in my view it would also lead to excessive political pressure for a particular type of renewable energy, which could be unfortunate if economic circumstances are later not too favourable for biogas production. the report on biogas that you request from the commission is certainly useful. however, it seems to me that the deadline of 2008 that you are setting is a bit too early when we look at all the other initiatives that are taking place. however, the commission will report on the implementation of the eu biomass action plan by the end of 2008, so i am quite sure that we will find common ground on this issue. it is a very important and also very interesting report. i am quite sure this will provide a very good basis for further discussions.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i have the opinion of the committee on industry responsible for energy policy. i have no personal opinion on this, but the committee adopted my draft opinion by 45 votes to 0 with 0 abstentions. the committee on industry is aware of the positive contribution of biogas not only from manure, as the rapporteur says, but from all organic waste. we have stressed that competition for food is increasingly a problem, that there is a need to discuss this, that gas supply must be provided without discrimination, that new processes for second generation technical biogas should be encouraged. we have discussed the role of green genetic technology in relation to biogas and we believe that the young and innovative biogas sector needs start-up funding but not permanent subsidies. we also want uniform funding instruments at european level, and our 13 points make this clear: we want a simplified approval procedure for biogas plants. the committee on energy has not called for four new directives to be tabled, as the honourable member has done in his draft report. i share the commissioner's view that we do not need new directives, but that we should give biogas a proper role in the existing renewable energy directives. in this respect the committee on industry has made a slightly different assessment of the situation from the leading committee on agriculture!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. as the shadow rapporteur for the epp group, i can largely agree with this report. the rapporteur has done a good job. i can emphasise what has already been said: biogas can make a significant contribution to achieving our renewable energy targets and to reducing our use of fossil fuels and thus our co2 emissions. the first condition is, of course, that the potential of biogas is exploited. in germany there are many biogas plants which produce only electricity. only about 38% of the energy available is used, and over 60% of the energy is blown into the environment as waste heat. this cannot be the point of biogas production! i therefore think it is right that the report calls for biogas to be fed into the gas grid. we must go in these two directions: either use waste heat for electricity generation or feed biogas directly into the grid. here we can achieve a high degree of efficiency in both procedures. i also believe that modern plant breeding can produce even better plants. but i don't necessarily think that you need genetic engineering to do that. i've heard from plant breeders that with conventional plant breeding, you can double the yield of biogas plants in good conditions. we can harvest about 5,000 litres of heating oil equivalent per hectare using biogas. with good crops created in the future by plant breeding, we can harvest up to 10,000 litres per hectare. this is a good way for biogas to contribute to climate change mitigation.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to congratulate mr tabajdi on his balanced report. i think he has succeeded in showing the importance of biogas for a sustainable energy mix of the future. as a member of the european parliament for the north german region, i am particularly aware of the potential of biogas as an important and versatile form of bioenergy from agriculture. germany - and in particular my home state of lower saxony - is one of the leading countries in europe in terms of biogas plants. but we should not fail to develop strict and clear criteria for biogas technology as part of the introduction of an eu certification scheme for biofuels. this should also apply in particular to imports. however, no additional administrative burden should be imposed on local producers. this is the only way to effectively address concerns about the use of cereals and foodstuffs for biogas production, as food production must remain a priority for agriculture. only in this way can and will biogas technology make a meaningful contribution to energy security, to reducing our dependence on foreign imports, to climate protection and to rural development. european research and development programmes can also provide efficiency gains.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the rapporteur has put forward a good report and he has put it to the committee on agriculture and rural development, and that is a good thing. we have just heard from mr langen that the industry is clearly seeing competition here. it's always like this: when something is successful, the industry tries to take it over. it doesn't have to be good. when i think that the pioneers of the biogas plants were farmers who were ridiculed 10, 15, 20 years ago when they tried to get energy out of the manure. because that's the idea, to put it bluntly, of turning shit into gold. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the foodstuffs. and what is left of the manure is also a better fertilizer, more versatile than aggressive fertilizer. in other words, biogas is in the same category as renewable energy sources such as wind, water, sun, wood, and is indeed a renewable energy source if it is produced from organic waste. if we have a situation like we had last year and the year before in the dairy sector, where you paid 23.5 for the milk, the relative advantage of putting the corn directly into the biogas plant was much higher than if you sent the corn through the cow first and produced milk. this means that there is always a correspondence between food prices and energy prices, and this is due to the fact that we have an energy input law - at least in germany, but also in some other countries - which allows a better utilization of plant products in the energy sector than in the food sector. and here we have to be careful not to get into a competitive situation. the competition between the tank and the plate is there when we do it wrong. but if we take a balance sheet on biofuels, it is negative, whereas we had a positive balance sheet on biogas - and on biogas for cars. it is therefore essential that the policy of support and the policy of remuneration give a clear preference to smaller installations so that there is no migration to industrial production.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. there is agreement that we want to reduce the harmful effects on man and the environment of pesticide use. in order to identify these effects, indicators need to be developed. to develop them, you need data. the collection of such data is the subject of this directive. i emphasize this to make it clear that this is not about the authorization of plant protection products or their use, but only about collecting data which will be useful for developing appropriate indicators. there is agreement on that. we have also, as mr staes has rightly said, made a very diligent effort to reach common positions, and we have succeeded to an astonishing extent. we agreed that the scope of application should be extended to the non-agricultural sector. we have also found a common position on the protection of trade and business secrets. two things have remained open between us: the first point is the inclusion of biocides. i fully share the commissioner's position. there are no objections in principle, but we do not have the knowledge at the moment to take this step in a meaningful way. i have no reservations, as i said, about the principle. this can be done at the appropriate time. the second point is more important. we have expressed our reservations about the inclusion of not only the use but also the production of plant protection products in the scope of application, because production as such does not give any information on the use. products are exported to third countries, products are stored before being used. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to say, however, mr staes, that if we succeed in sticking to the compromises we have worked out, your report will not fail in our final vote.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. here in the eu pesticide package we are also discussing how we can - and this is our aim - protect people, animals and the environment from harm caused by dangerous pesticides. sufficient data is the basic requirement for this objective. i hope that this vote sends a strong signal to environmental and health protection. the collection and disclosure of data is not about trade secrets, but about ensuring the right of consumers to information and transparency. i support making as much data as possible available on the internet. that would also be fully consistent with my report on the pesticide authorization. the experience of authorisation shows that we need reliable figures on pesticide use in europe and harmonised data collection methods. only when good data is available can we hope to receive less misunderstanding and misinformation. finally, something that is not in the statistical report but is nevertheless very important to me. we have also adopted a pesticide passport for wholesale and retail trade at the first reading on the authorization of pesticides. again, this is data on pesticide use. the wholesale and retail trade want this data, and i hope the member states will not stand in the way of that. this is also a good complement to the statistics on pesticide data. i hope we will be united in the goal of achieving better protection of man, animals and the environment through more reliable figures and data.
the commission has already done so. the plant protection products are on the test bench and the statistics are part of a package which also includes the marketing authorization regulation and the directive on the sustainable use of plant protection products. the whole package aims to minimise the impact of plant protection products on both human health and the environment. the competitive pressures in the single market and the cross-border aspects of the environment require a common approach. but the access of food from around the world to our markets also makes it clear that restrictions must be appropriate to be effective. it is not in the interests of anyone if our fruit and vegetables and meat come only from third countries, because production is made too difficult by imposing conditions. we have no influence in europe on food from third countries. the only way is to establish maximum residue levels, and this is where we are still not properly positioned, let alone where we can have a pesticide pass. it is right to keep records and statistics on the sale of plant protection products in order to monitor the trends and developments in plant protection. the stated objective is to reduce risk. the collection of data shall ensure comparability, while minimising reporting requirements. the aim of registering the flow of substances is clearly out of the question here, since it is not yet clear whether the substance will be used to produce a plant protection product, a biocide or perhaps even a medicinal product. biocides must be considered separately and we are awaiting the commission's proposal on the authorization and use of biocides. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the illegal use of plant protection products must be targeted more strongly. we need to strengthen the controls on existing legislation. i do not think that statistics can help here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparations for the european council in brussels on 13 and 14 march. the council is represented by mr janez lenarčič.
the chairman of the council. - i am very pleased to present to you today the main themes of the european council which starts tomorrow. in line with the tradition of the spring summits, this session will also focus on economic issues, in particular the lisbon strategy, as well as climate change and energy and financial stability. the presidency looks forward to this exchange of views with the european parliament and i can assure you that parliament's views on the matters on the agenda for tomorrow's sitting will be duly taken into account. we are all aware that the european union is facing new challenges today, and that globalisation is bringing new opportunities, not only in the economic but also in the social and cultural fields. and these opportunities have already brought benefits to the union. we are also aware that globalisation also requires adaptation and the search for the right responses from the union and the member states. this is what the european council will be dealing with. the global economic environment is in a period of testing. we've been witnessing a turbulent period in the financial markets. we have seen a decline in economic activity recently due to the recession in the united states and the higher prices of oil and commodities. the foundations of the european union's economy are still firm, but in these circumstances we cannot stop, we cannot rest, we must continue with our reforms. in this context, the european council will assess the state of play of the implementation of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. it will welcome the positive results and confirm the good functioning of this strategy. he will stress the need to focus on implementation now, and in this spirit he will launch the new cycle of the renewed lisbon strategy. in the area of knowledge and innovation, the european council will give a new impetus to our efforts by introducing the so-called fifth freedom. it is intended to remove existing barriers to the free flow of knowledge by enhancing the cross-border mobility of researchers, students, scientists and university lecturers. the fifth freedom would, in our view, accelerate the transformation of the european union into an innovative, creative and knowledge-based economy. to strengthen the competitiveness of enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, the european council will provide for measures to enable them to operate and develop better. it is expected to have easier access to funding sources and to strengthen incentives for innovation. the implementation of the better regulation plan will also be given high priority. the social dimension of the lisbon strategy, efforts to address demographic challenges, skills shortages and future policy measures to increase social cohesion will also receive a great deal of attention. the spring summit will instruct member states to implement the common principles of flexible security progressively, with national arrangements that ensure a balance between flexibility and security in the labour market. let me now turn to the other important matter to be considered by the european council. these are the challenges of climate change and energy. last year saw historic commitments in climate and energy policy. this year, we must focus on fulfilling them. this objective is both an economic and an ecological challenge of major long-term importance. if we respond to it with ambition, we can create a story not just of economic success, but also of environmental success. the legislative package presented by the commission is currently being considered by the council. and the first discussions reaffirmed the commitment of all member states to an ambitious response. however, it would be premature to expect that all aspects of the package would be agreed at this summit. however, we expect that it will be possible to reach an agreement on the principles and guidelines for the further consideration of the package. we expect leaders to express a desire to maintain the overall balance, while paying attention to the complexity of the package in terms of its economic and financial impact. the aim is to adopt the package as early as possible in 2009, certainly before the end of the european parliament's mandate. if all key partners are able to address the challenges of climate change, our efforts will be successful. when the copenhagen climate conference meets at the end of 2009, europe should be the leading force in negotiating an ambitious and comprehensive post-kyoto agreement. this is another reason to adopt the agreement as soon as possible in 2009. let me also briefly touch on some other energy-related issues. an efficient, functioning internal energy market is an essential condition for a reliable, sustainable and competitive energy supply in europe. in this context, we expect the european council to call for the adoption of an agreement on the third gas and electricity internal market package as soon as possible. it will also pay particular attention to further measures relating to security of supply and external energy policy. the european council will place efforts to tackle climate-related energy policy within the framework of developing new technologies and increasing investment in them. this was recently defined in the strategic energy technology plan. this would further contribute to the competitiveness of our companies. the heads of state or government will also consider the conclusions of the joint communication of the secretary-general, high representative solana and the commission on the impact of climate change on international security. the complexity of climate change requires more comprehensive policy coordination and the european council will call for a thorough follow-up to the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to touch on the third main item on the agenda of the european council. it is an exchange of views on the recent developments in international financial markets. the situation in the international financial system remains uncertain. to manage the risk of their impact on the real economy, the economic and financial policies of the european union should be geared to ensuring macroeconomic stability and implementing the structural reform agenda. the union's response has been prepared by the finance ministers and some adjustments in the financial markets have been under way since last autumn. the european central bank, national authorities, the institutions of the european union and financial institutions have taken a series of measures to stabilise the situation. however, the primary responsibility for risk management remains with the individual financial institutions and investors. the current situation has highlighted the need to further strengthen the financial stability framework through enhanced prudential supervision and improved financial crisis management tools. we expect the european council to call for action in four main areas: improving transparency for investors, markets and regulators, improving valuation standards, consolidating the credit rating framework and strengthening risk management in the financial sector, and finally improving market functioning, including the role of credit rating agencies. a few words about the sovereign wealth funds. these, with their long-term strategies, are useful as providers of capital to ensure liquidity. however, the emergence of new players whose investment strategies and objectives are not always fully transparent raises particular concerns about uneconomic practices. the commission's recent communication on sovereign wealth funds is a very valuable contribution to this debate. the european council is expected to agree on the need to develop a common approach of the european union in accordance with the principles proposed in the said communication. i would like to stress once again that cooperation with the european parliament on all the issues mentioned will be essential. i would like to conclude my introduction by saying that the spring european council, which starts tomorrow, will be devoted primarily to the implementation of the commitments made. the presidency wants to accelerate the work of transforming europe into the most competitive economy. we also have an important task to achieve even more sustainability through our climate and energy policies. in view of all these challenges ahead, we want to have a truly constructive cooperation with the european parliament. if we succeed in making progress together, european citizens will be able to see that the european union is here to look after their future. our exchange of views today and the debate with the president of the european parliament at the european council are undoubtedly important factors in achieving this objective. thank you for your attention.
president of the commission. − mr president, traditionally, the spring european council is the time when we review the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, and this meeting will be more important than most. i would like to start by thanking the slovenian presidency for the very careful preparation of this spring summit. whatever other messages come out of the european council this week, one should be clear: the lisbon strategy is working. no fewer than 6.5 million jobs have been created in the european union in the last two years. unemployment is at its lowest level for 25 years. the employment rate stands at 66%, getting close to the lisbon target of 70%. what is more, job creation has gone hand in hand with productivity improvements. productivity is now growing faster in the european union than in the united states. these are no mean achievements. of course, the lisbon process cannot shield us from negative economic developments whose origin lies outside europe. in today’s inter-connected economy, that is impossible. we have had to trim our growth forecasts slightly for this year but we are still predicting growth of 2% – a very respectable performance. the reforms already carried out have made our economies more resilient and flexible. this has left us better able to cope with external shocks. of course when conditions deteriorate it becomes all the more important to reassure those that feel threatened by an economic downturn. europe needs to protect – but it must avoid the temptation of becoming protectionist. a retreat into protectionism would be madness. europe has been a huge winner from globalisation. with just 7% of the world’s population, europe accounts for 30% of economic output. we account for seven of the ten most competitive nations in the world and, despite the rise of china and india, europe remains the world’s largest trading power. so europe has every reason to approach the future with confidence. at the same time, we need to remain vigilant and cautious as to further developments. but our general line should be one of confidence. it will not be with pessimism that we will win the next economic battles. this is what has inspired our reaction to the financial turmoil and our policy papers on the financial situation and on sovereign wealth funds, which are also on the table of the european council. and we hope the european council will support our proposals for a common european response to these challenges. when i say that the lisbon strategy is working – and indeed it is – this does not mean that all is rosy and that we can rest on our laurels. i have said, and the commission has said, time and time again, there is no room for complacency, especially when the economic situation seems to be deteriorating globally. a lot has to be done. in many regions of europe unemployment remains a serious problem. there are special social categories that are very much affected. rising energy and food prices are fuelling inflation, eating into the purchasing power, especially of those who depend on salaries and pensions for their income. so we need to continue our efforts. but the lisbon strategy is not a static process. far from it. the commission strategic report sets out a series of new policy initiatives to make europe even more resilient to economic turmoil, and to reinforce european efforts to shape and fully benefit from globalisation. first, the most important area. the most important area is people. the key to overcoming poverty and inequality is driving up standards of education and training throughout the union, making sure they are available to all. we have chosen to focus on one of the most vulnerable groups: early school-leavers. today in europe, one in six young people still leaves school without qualifications. one in five 15-year-olds does not have adequate reading skills. we cannot afford to allow their talents to go to waste. we must give young people the skills they need to realise their potential. another key pillar of the lisbon strategy we have returned to is research and innovation. to keep investment coming in, europe must increase its relative attractiveness. we need a fifth freedom in europe – the free movement of knowledge – to complement the other four freedoms on which the single market rests. we need to support open innovation but at the same time we need to ensure that knowledge is suitably protected by european patents and copyright. here i would like to welcome the adoption of the european institute of innovation and technology yesterday by this house. this is a crucial moment for europe. i would like to congratulate the european parliament on this achievement and to thank you for the support you have given to my proposal, which i remember met with so much resistance when i put it forward three years ago. but, thanks to the good cooperation between parliament and the commission and the member states, at the end we have got that agreement. the third priority we have looked at is the business environment. we need a single market that works for europe and in particular for smes, which are the backbone of our economy and the place where most jobs are created. that is why i will be asking the european council tomorrow to endorse the idea of a small business act to remove the impediments to the creation and the growth of smes. we have to keep in mind that the most important thing we can give to smes is a real internal market. this is the main difference between europe and the united states of america, when it comes to smes, not because of specific legislation. a small company in the united states can start in one state but can immediately reach the entire internal market of the united states. in europe it is still not like that. in europe there are a lot of barriers in practical terms in going from one country to the next. so we really need to complete the internal market if we want to develop smes and if you want more growth and more employment in europe. (applause) the final lisbon pillar we have revisited in our strategic report is energy and climate change, the defining challenge of our generation. it may be early days for the energy and climate package. but, as this house knows well, the momentum cannot be allowed to slip. the timing of an agreement is critical to its success. the earlier it comes, the lower the cost of adjustment, the bigger the benefits for early movers. and it is crucial to our number one goal: agreeing a comprehensive international agreement in copenhagen next year. the more countries are involved and the closer their ambitions are to ours, the more we will have a level playing field. nothing will bring this closer than the european union showing that it means business by reaching agreement by the end of this year. so i am really determined – the commission is really determined – to work with the member states so that we can have a basic political agreement on the energy internal market and on the climate protection and renewables package by the end of this year. of course, we would also like to have the final legislative process concluded with the european parliament at the beginning of next year. it is of course important to link the climate protection strategy with the internal market for energy. we all know this is essential for our vision of competitive, secure and sustainable energy for europe. i have been glad to see this dossier accelerating over the past weeks, and we are committed to finding ways of ensuring that the genuine market opening targeted in our original proposals is realised. the commission remains fully committed to the realisation of ownership unbundling or its functional equivalent. the efforts of this house to be ready for a first reading by june are central. reform is not about rolling back valuable social advances or our social market economy; it is about equipping people to succeed in times of change, giving them the chance to take control of their own lives. it is about modernising our social systems and securing their sustainability. access, opportunity and solidarity must be the watchwords and will be at the heart of the renewed social agenda that the commission will present before summer. it is about a dynamic business environment where entrepreneurs are spending their time and resources on producing high-quality goods and services that people from all over the world want to buy, not on filling in unnecessary forms and having to battle every day against red tape. it is also about transforming europe into a low-carbon economy that is good for the environment and good for business. an economy that provides rising living standards but which does not cost the earth. i am glad to see that the hard work of the last few years on the revamped lisbon agenda has helped foster a broad consensus on where we stand and where we want to go. this house has been a consistent source of critical support, and i want to thank you for this. i was pleased to note the large degree of support for the lisbon strategy expressed in the european parliament’s resolution of 20 february on the input for the 2008 spring council. i have also seen the amendments that this house voted the same day to the broad economic policy guidelines. i agree with the issues you emphasise, and indeed they are already part and parcel of european union policies on the basis of proposals from the european commission: social inclusion, sustainability of public finance, the need to fight inflation, r&d, improved economic policy coordination, the promotion of entrepreneurship and innovation, the external dimension of the internal market, and climate change and energy. so let us be clear: the commission agrees with these priorities. after consulting with various stakeholders, including the member states, the commission proposed in december to keep the guidelines of the strategy as they were, given their inbuilt flexibility, which allows adaptation to the evolving circumstances and accommodation of the priorities i have just cited and which the commission endorses. keeping the guidelines sends a much-needed signal of stability and predictability to member states and economic operators alike and, in doing so, reinforces the likelihood of delivery. as the presidency of the council just stated, the priority now is delivery. we have to deliver concrete results and we have to show consistency. this being said, after contacts with parliament’s committee on economic and monetary affairs, the commission tried to broker a compromise with the council, suggesting adaptations to the narrative document accompanying the guidelines to reflect the issues highlighted by parliament. in spite of the efforts of the commission, the council decided not to follow our compromise suggestion on the broad economic policy guidelines. anyway, i would like to reassure this house of the utmost importance that the commission attaches to setting the right framework for member states to deliver on our shared priorities – and the priorities are growth and jobs. when i say growth, it is growth that is sustainable from a social and environmental point of view. and jobs that are not only increasing in numbers but also in quality. because we are sure that the renewed lisbon strategy focusing on jobs and growth, with its commitment to competitiveness and inclusiveness, is europe’s best response to the challenges of globalisation. (applause)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would first like to make a comment on the address of the president-in-office: mr president-in-office, we have been informed that the mediterranean union will be discussed at dinner tomorrow. this is an idea of the french president and i would ask you to make the following clear on behalf of our group at the dinner. if the idea of the mediterranean union is a further development, an upgrade of the barcelona process, in which we are investing a lot of money from the budget of the european union, then we are absolutely in favour of it. but we must ensure that it is a policy that is carried out within the framework of the european union. the mediterranean union must be a community policy within the framework of the present eu institutions and policies if it is to succeed. if, on the other hand, it is an idea that leads to the eu being divided in the end by the mediterranean union, then that is a bad sign and would mean france's isolation on the eve of the french presidency of the council, which we strongly do not want. (applause from the centre) so we would ask that you pass this on to the summit participants. not changing the guidelines is one thing. the fact that it was decided by a majority of 515 votes here on 20 february to change it is another matter. but let us not argue about whether the guidelines will be changed, but let us discuss whether the content we attach to the call for the guidelines to be changed is made practicable. i criticised you, mr barroso, last week for not doing enough. i have learned in the meantime that some members of your commission - and i am sure also after consulting you - have adopted and put forward in some areas the ideas we have put forward here. i have therefore concluded my criticism on this point. but after your speech today, mr president of the commission, we must repeat the following: they have a pilot function in europe. you must use what you say to stimulate the heads of state and government tomorrow to ensure that what you have just called for is also implemented in the member states. there's a lot of truth in what you say. but we must face the reality of europe. so let me give you five points that we think are still essential, but not sufficiently communicated and implemented. yes, of course we have made progress: unemployment is falling, productivity is rising, but the number of unemployed in europe is also rising. that's a reality too! of course, more jobs will be created, but the jobs that will be created are not secure! you're getting more and more precarious! wage growth in europe is not keeping pace with corporate profits. as a percentage, firms have more profit than workers have wage increases. (applause from the centre) this is a social and political imbalance. we want to improve social cohesion, we want to increase social protection. what good is a growing single market, what good is a union that is competitive on a global scale, if the reality is that: a company makes a profit of 4% on a site with a production, and says that the shareholders are not satisfied, they want a profit of 6%, so we close the company in that site. this is a blow to the foundation of trust that the european union needs! the citizens must have confidence! we are discussing a possible or unlikely unbundling of energy policy. let us discuss the social and political unbundling that is taking place in europe. the disconnect between economic growth on the one hand and social security on the other is the real danger, which is why we need a revision of the guidelines! we must make it clear that everything that happens in the european union in terms of social policy and everything that happens in terms of economic progress are interrelated. we are celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of the european parliament this afternoon. the spirit that prevailed here in strasbourg 50 years ago meant that the combination of economic development and social security was the basis for the growth and success of the european community. this is increasingly being jeopardized. you speak of small and mediumsized enterprises, for which bureaucratic obstacles must be removed. i know! but when these bureaucratic obstacles are removed and these companies move into europe and then produce a case like the laval case, that is a blow to confidence in the european union! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social dimension of the internal market is not undermined. but they represent the majority of the citizens of the european union. of course we need to invest in skills, in training, in research, in technological innovation. yes, of course! but if access to higher education and schooling for the masses of people depends on whether their parents have enough money in their pockets, then this is not social policy! we need equal access for all citizens of the european union, regardless of where they come from or their family background! the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. it is a blow to social trust, of course, when every rich european can move from one country to another with his wallet and not have to pay taxes. that's another blow! that is why we need - you are right - a framework for financial markets in the european union. all of this, mr president, suggests that the guidelines should be revised. whether there is a title or not, it doesn't matter in the end. if you deliver this message to the council tomorrow, we will be on your side. but, mr president, only then will we be on your side! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin by repeating what mr schulz said and stress once again that we are not taking a fair assessment of the lisbon strategy if we ignore the fact that europe is the big winner of globalisation, but that these gains are very unequally distributed and that the increase in employment has not in any way solved the problem of the working poor, but that on the contrary, despite more employment and growth, we are also experiencing more poverty due to precarious working conditions. in our resolution, the european parliament specifically asked that the commission and the council take up the issue of minimum sectoral wages and that the commission, in the context of the problems of increasing social marginalisation, really look at other measures of the success of the lisbon strategy. this poverty indicator has been explicitly included in our resolution and i regret that neither the council nor the commission has so far responded to these decisions of the european parliament. (applause from the centre) on the subject of climate and energy: i was shocked to hear a representative of the german government in brussels say that environmental policy should be kept separate from industrial and economic policy a few days before this spring summit. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted. so it is obvious that the german ministry of the environment has no real idea of what sustainability actually means. it is not surprising that the german government is continuing to work against co2 regulations for cars, that it does not want to see the single energy market as the commission has designed it, and that it is trying to organize an alliance against the area of 'new definitions of emissions trading'. i am sorry to note that in these negotiations the germans have partly forgotten what they agreed and consolidated at the spring summit a year ago. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not sure, for example, that the new priority for renewable energy, which seems so uncontroversial, is actually enough to create sustainability in the field of energy and climate. i also think that the union for the mediterranean raises questions. it is sometimes felt that, just as with these major gas deals with russia - northstream, southstream - this mediterranean union is further proof that a uniform policy on energy and security of supply is not possible in the union at all. and if the council does not deal with this problem, it will miss its objectives. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not we are celebrating 50 years of the european parliament today. i think that this would be an opportunity for the forthcoming summit to finally give parliament the right of initiative. i also believe that fifty years of the european parliament are an opportunity for my group and myself to make it clear that neither the council nor the commission should expect a compliant and tolerant parliament or even praise in the future. it will continue to be our duty to give a voice to those in the european union who are not heard, to the more than 70 million people in the eu who live in poverty or are at risk, including 19 million children. if the european council is to welcome the commission's strategic report on the renewed lisbon strategy, as it is to be heard, and if it is to praise itself for its successes, it should pay more attention to those citizens, those children in the eu who are excluded from the achievements of the lisbon strategy. the direction and priorities of the strategy and the policy derived from it are not right! mr watson, it is not our protests against the global aggression of unilever, thyssen-krupp, nokia and many others that are ignoring reality, but the refusal of the commission and the council to deal with this aggression of globally operating corporations and to give the protection of the workers concerned and the socially excluded the appropriate priority. i can only agree with the european network against poverty if it complains that the fight against poverty, social exclusion and growing social divisions is still not addressed and supported with the necessary clarity and consistency. the network put four questions to the spring summit on 10 march, and it is precisely these questions that the european parliament should address: how can the social dimension of the lisbon strategy be strengthened in practice? what concrete measures are envisaged to support the announced contribution to poverty reduction? how can we effectively combat working poverty when 18.9 million of the officially 78 million poor have a job? how can we ensure that rising energy prices do not threaten social cohesion and integration? these four questions, i believe, are fundamental if economic growth is to be truly socially and environmentally sustainable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president of the commission, you have said before this house that you have come closer to the ideas of the european parliament. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one. i'm thinking about something else. i think you're talking out of turn here to the council, who were not prepared to take on multiple representations. i think the council is going to respond to the messages that have been coming from you for months, mr barroso, that no changes are necessary. i believe that this interaction is creating a cartel of political blockades that have a common mantra: just no change. but that is not in the interests of the people of europe, that is not in the interests of european businesses, and that is not in the interests of the european parliament, which has called in many resolutions for them to take better account of the economic, social and environmental realities of the european union. the studies themselves show: we are lagging behind in research and development. we are staying at a level which is well below that of the united states. we have been at this level since the early 1980s, but we are now not only dependent on japan, but we are also being overtaken by the chinese, whose research and development expenditure in the economic sector is now greater than that of companies in the european union. when are you gonna wake up? and when do you feel positive about the quality of the european union's finances and investment in the service of the people of this union? it's about time!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to take up a completely new subject which has not played a role until now and recall the debate which took place in this house a month ago on the future of cohesion policy and its relation to the european documents, the leipzig charter and the territorial agenda. unfortunately, this discussion took place without the presence of a representative of the council. the ministerial conferences held under the german and portuguese presidencies before our discussion had clearly expressed the expectation that the territorial agenda would be discussed at the spring summit in order to give the territorial dimension greater political weight. this is particularly true in the light of the incorporation of the territorial dimension as a new community objective in the treaty of lisbon. but according to the documents i have access to, the subject matter is irrelevant. what are the reasons for this? cohesion policy is the concrete implementation of the principle of solidarity and will therefore probably be with us and keep us busy for a longer time than the lisbon strategy, which will probably be successfully completed in 2010.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to commend the commission, unlike the spokesmen for the social democrats, for not having changed its economic policy guidelines quickly in a period of global political uncertainty caused by the financial crisis. this is a process reserved for the post-lisbon strategy. i want to commend them specifically because it is right! the deficit is in the implementation in the member states, and the president of the council should deal with this deficit in the member states and not with what the commission can change here. that's the problem. when mr bullmann says 'a cartel of political blockade', that is an accusation which is totally unjustified. a second point: take advantage of the opportunities of globalisation, reduce the risks. mr schulz said that poverty has increased. it's an illusion, you know. europe is a model of prosperity! wealth has increased in europe, the distribution has changed. but what happens in societies where there are no distributional differences, we have seen in history. there has to be some sort of distribution difference to drive modernization and dynamism. we can't deny that. the third point is the reduction of bureaucracy, which has not been done enough here. we have a high-level group that doesn't exist anywhere else. does it still work? what are the interim results? when can we expect that? we would have liked to have known this before the european elections. the last point is financial stability. it is indeed true that the greed in the financial markets is greater than the fear of distortions, and the commission must act. they've announced the points. the commission's first task, when we talk about climate protection, is to persuade the member states at the summit to stick to their old objectives. some member states have emitted far more co2 than was ever allowed. how can we make sense of new measures if the sinners of now and of past years are not punished?
mr president, mr president of the commission! i would like to return to the spring summit last year. this was an extraordinarily successful summit under angela merkel, and now the question is to implement the decisions of 7 march last year in legislation. but legislation is not meant to punish, it is meant to motivate our people and our companies to innovate and ultimately to be more sustainable. the current debate is developing as if the co2 debate were the most important issue. i think the real question is much deeper: it's about sustainability. how do we manage our resources in the long term? i think the focus should be on the future of our economy using less fossil fuels. the commissioner, of course, will have to argue with us, because we cannot accept everything you have proposed. i am not happy with the car regulations, for example, because we already know how much money we are going to fine someone, but we do not yet know what regulations they should comply with. i learned this differently in my parents' home: first you have to know the rules, and then you have to find sanctioning instruments. it's important that we do that in the future. if we have crossborder co2 problems in the ets, which i do not deny, then i would suggest that we look for more shoulders to carry these burdens, for example by introducing a sensible waste policy throughout europe. i would like to take this opportunity to say to you, mr president of the commission, that you are the guardians of the law. it is no use at all to join hands here and say that we will do this and that now, and then in the end it will not be implemented. let's make it less! but what we do, we have to do better. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the kyoto protocol is fully implemented, and that the kyoto protocol is fully implemented. a look on the internet will tell you exactly who i'm talking about. good luck, we'll be critical of you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the council's draft conclusions show that the language on the internal energy market is extremely weak. there is no agreement in the council on whether or not to decouple, and the commission's package is being discussed critically. i would like to say that we think it is right to continue with the approach of consistent unbundling, but it must be effective unbundling for consumers. fair prices and a secure supply must come out of this. the commission's proposal for complete property unbundling is premature. we therefore believe that an effective dismantling should be attempted first, but that the dismantling of property rights should not be abandoned for the future. i would like to mention a second point from the council's conclusions for reasons of principle. the council says it looks forward to the social agenda which the commission will present. it also covers youth and education policy. i always thought that this was a matter for the member states, in our case the länder. i only want to make this point because we will certainly be criticised again for the fact that parliament, the commission and the court of justice are assuming powers in this area. the council welcomes the commission's proposals on youth and education policy. if this is discussed in the länder, we should point out this important point.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i believe that the lisbon strategy, as it has been re-launched, has been a success in principle since 2005. you can easily pin it to a point. when we spoke in public about lisbon in 2005, everyone was convinced that this was the portuguese capital, but no one associated it with a process at the time. kyoto, it was a process back then, it was about climate action. now we're in 2008, and the world has changed, thank god. when people speak about lisbon in public today, it is still the portuguese capital, but it is also increasingly being linked to a political process, and i think that shows that we are having some success here. i also believe that it was right to make a new priority with the aim of more growth and employment, because this is also the prerequisite for being able to pursue a sound environmental and social policy as the second and third pillars of the lisbon strategy. i also think it was right to stick to the guidelines because they have been successful on the whole. i would also like to address some of the shortcomings. i see, for example, that there are still considerable shortcomings in the progress and development of the internal market, which we have supposedly had since the beginning of the 1990s, but which in fact does not exist in soft areas. in the insurance sector we do not have a single market and in company law, for example, there is no possibility for companies to exercise their right of establishment fully within the european union. we are not yet at that stage in intellectual property rights, we still do not have a patent system in europe. there is no common regulation on alternative financial instruments and the single market in health care is not coming soon. on the other hand, there have been a number of legislative proposals in other sectors to make progress, particularly in the areas of social, environmental and consumer law. that's good, but the balance has to be maintained. i therefore ask the commission and the council to pay particular attention to closing the gaps in the internal market legislation.
mr president, mr president of the commission, commissioners, mr president of the council! i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the matter. the union's economy and employment can only flourish on the basis of a sustainable european transport policy and trans-european networks adapted to the needs of the union. without sensible transport corridors, without cooperation between transport modes, without intelligent transport systems, neither trade nor tourism can be developed within the european union and with third countries. but we need that to promote employment! mr president-in-office, when you speak to your colleagues in the council: please, it is necessary that the member states also include transport policy in their national plans for growth and employment. unfortunately, we are increasingly seeing that member states are providing less and less funding for the maintenance and expansion of public infrastructure - railway networks and road networks. this is also true of the promotion and use of transport systems. you can order everything online these days, but you can only get it delivered by truck or rail. you can book any trip, but to get to the destination, you need to have a reasonable airport, you need to have a reasonable transportation connection. so if we want growth and jobs, we need infrastructure that meets the needs and we need sensible transport systems. of course, they have to be environmentally friendly. and so, in the context of sustainability, we also believe that we have to give logistics a lot of space. this is also important for national plans. although logistics is primarily the responsibility of the companies themselves, we as member states and the european union can help to develop logistics by removing bureaucratic obstacles, such as customs regulations in ports. we need an environmentally friendly policy. i therefore appeal to you to make transport policy a central element in your strategy for growth and employment!
i am sorry that i cannot take up any more of my colleagues' comments, and i have not seen any statement from the left. so you can't accuse me of trespassing. you have to at least call in. (interruption by mr martin schulz) i would just like to point out and add, mr schulz, that the epp-ed group in particular was not so enthusiastic about the introduction of the catch-the-eye system, but the messages come primarily from the epp-ed group. let the president speak, and the balance will be restored.
the chairman of the council. − i would like to thank all the members who contributed to this very interesting, very dynamic and substantive discussion, which will be very useful to us, the presidency, in the final preparations for the european council tomorrow and the day after. we will try to take into account as many opinions, positions, suggestions as possible, as far as possible, of course. i'd also like to try to answer some questions, but i'm not going to be able to answer all of them, but i'll try to answer some. first of all, let me reiterate that the european council this week will focus on three main topics: the launch of the new cycle of the lisbon strategy, energy and climate policy, or the energy and climate package, and the issue of financial stability. these are the three main themes. the union for the mediterranean is not among the main themes. i thank mr schulz for this question and let me make it clear that there is no prospect of any in-depth discussion of the union of the mediterranean at this european council. the presidency will, however, allow the presentation of the proposal for a union for the mediterranean, at the request of one member state, at the dinner of heads of state or government on thursday evening. we do not foresee any specific discussion on this subject. now, to the main issues. well, perhaps the presidency's position on the union of the mediterranean. i would remind you of what the prime minister, the president of the european council, mr jan jan jansa, said in this house on 16 january. he said: 'we want to strengthen institutions and processes such as the barcelona process and euromed, but we do not need duplication or the eu institutions competing institutions covering only part of the european union and part of the neighbourhood at the same time. the eu is a whole and only as a whole can it be sufficiently effective in bringing peace, stability and progress to its neighbourhood and beyond. 'this is the position of the presidency and i think it will be taken into account in the future. now, a few words on the main issues. lisbon strategy: there were several opinions on the need to change the structure, mechanisms or integrated guidelines of the lisbon strategy. well, let me stress here that the council and the commission agree that the lisbon strategy is working. the council and the commission agree that the lisbon strategy is delivering results. they agree that the real economy in the european union is in a relatively good position compared to some other players at the global level. we therefore believe that the mechanisms, existing structures and guidelines of the lisbon strategy should be maintained and more attention should be paid to implementation. the fact is, circumstances change. it is true that our action needs to be adapted to this, but these adaptations can be achieved by amending the accompanying text of the guidelines, and this has been done. a few words about the social dimension in particular. the social dimension is one of the key dimensions of the lisbon strategy and the council is aware of this and i believe and expect that this will also be reflected in the conclusions of the european council. there can be no doubt about that. it was said that the future lisbon treaty, if and when ratified, would change the balance between the social and other dimensions. i'm sure that's not true. i am convinced that the european social model will not be affected in any way by the entry into force of the new lisbon treaty, quite the contrary. i would like to thank mrs mcguinness for the information she gave me on the irish voting day. i wish you all the luck. i hope that the irish voters will choose a european decision, a decision in favour of the european union. on the other important set of issues, the climate and energy package, let me say this. yes, mr watson, we are aware that it would be useful if governments, and not just governments, but perhaps also the european institutions and other important actors, set an example in achieving greater energy efficiency, reducing energy consumption and the like. maybe we can work something out, maybe we can't. the fact is that this would be useful, but energy efficiency is certainly and will be an important element of the climate and energy package also in the european council's deliberations. let me repeat, we have the commitments made in march last year, during the german presidency. now is the time to make them come true. we have quantified objectives that we must achieve by joint effort. we'll have to agree on a way to share that effort. i told you, this deal isn't gonna happen tomorrow or the day after. however, we can agree on some basic principles for allocating this effort between member states and on some milestones in terms of the timeframe. as i said, we want to see agreement between member states before the end of the year and a joint decision with the european parliament as soon as possible in 2009. a few words on financial stability, which will be the third important topic at the european council. econfin has prepared a mid-term review of the financial markets for this european council meeting and i shall be sorry to speak about this in a little more detail. in fact, it gives the impression that europe, european structures, european institutions are sitting idle while there is a crisis on the financial markets outside. let me stress that the european structures are not sitting idly by. i would like to stress that the european structures are taking action and, as was the case yesterday when we discussed this matter at the instigation of the honourable member, mrs berès, as commissioner almunia said, before we take action we must first determine what measures are really needed in order not to cause more damage. so ecofin will continue to deal with this problem. following the european council in april, an informal ecofin council meeting is planned in slovenia, and the issue of financial stability will be the central theme of this meeting. we also look forward to concrete guidance from the european council on this matter. i would like to conclude, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by reiterating my conviction that cooperation and synergy are the most important in all these matters, especially between the three key institutions of the european union, the european parliament, the commission and the council, and the slovenian presidency will do everything in our power to make this synergy as strong as possible. let me also announce that the president of the european council will be reporting to this high assembly in person on the proceedings of the european council this week.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of these discussions, i think we can say that there is indeed a broad agreement in the european parliament to continue the lisbon strategy, to say that it is a success and that we must increase our efforts in this strategy, particularly in terms of implementation, and more particularly in terms of the practical implementation by our member states of the priorities we had set. of course, there are some differences in the accent; where should the emphasis be placed? but i would like to stress the general support for the lisbon strategy and the clear conclusions of the european parliament that it is working and that it is our response to globalisation. i would like to emphasize the main points and, first of all, europe's attitude to globalisation. the truth is that even in a more difficult economic situation, notably because of financial instability, european exports are increasing and europe remains by far the largest recipient of foreign direct investment. europe has the strength to face globalisation. so it is a matter of maintaining the course and i would like to thank all those, including mr daul, mr watson and so many others, who have clearly supported this course. now we must also protect the protective europe, as some of you - mr desir among others - have pointed out. we agree on that; the question is how to protect it. we believe that europe can be protected not by closing ourselves in but, on the contrary, by ensuring that others can open up as we are opening up. that's the question! europe, which is the world's leading trading power and is increasing its exports, cannot become protectionist. it would be against our own interests. the best solution is to make sure that others open themselves up, not only in terms of trade, in terms of access to their markets, but also in environmental matters, with more ambition, and in terms of social rights. on the internal level, we can do more on social matters, of course, and i would like to say that the message that the commission is going to present to the european council is a message of social commitment. we will in particular be in favour of a social agenda based on access, solidarity and opportunity. some of you have referred to the laval case. i would like to say again what i have already said on many occasions, including during a plenary session of the swedish parliament: the commission's interpretation of the laval case is not, as some have suggested, a contradiction between the principles of the internal market and the principle of defending the rights of workers. on the contrary, we believe that the flexicurity model and, in general, the so-called scandinavian model of industrial relations, is a progressive model which has produced excellent results in europe. we are against any form of social dumping. there can be no doubt about the commission's position on this matter. i would therefore like to stress this aspect, because it seems to me that we must avoid at all costs the trap of pitting the social dimension against the competitiveness of europe. as many of you have said, including mr crowley and others, we need an open europe, we need a europe with an open economy and society, but at the same time a europe which is supportive of social inclusion. so let us resist that tendency! we must also resist the tendency to oppose social and environmental concerns. i would like to stress the commission's determination. we are absolutely determined to continue the commitments unanimously made by the european council in march last year. in the context of the german presidency - that of mrs merkel - we have unanimously set ourselves certain objectives. what i can tell you is that in the next phase the commission will be even more determined to build a genuine european energy policy and to fight climate change. if there are any changes in recent developments, it is to confirm the urgency and the determination. i would like to stress what mr turmes and mrs harms have said, amongst others, namely that we must not oppose the social and the environmental aspects. the problem of energy or energy-intensive industries deserves a particular response. we want a competitive industry in europe. our idea is not at all to de-industrialise europe, quite the contrary. what we want is greening, an industry that can move towards a new compatibility with our climate change objectives. it would be a fundamental mistake to oppose the competitiveness of european industry and the fight against climate change. that is why in our proposals - the commission has made it clear - we are in favour of specific guarantees for energy-intensive industries. we do not want to offload our energies to other parts of the world. the question is, what is our main focus now? our aim is to have a global agreement on climate change, to be at the copenhagen meeting with proposals that can move others. but if there is no global agreement, we will be prepared to take protective measures - yes, let us not be afraid of the word - in favour of europe's energy-intensive industries. so, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of maintaining the course. i would like to thank all those, including mr ferber, mr karas and so many others, who have stressed the need to keep going. the lisbon strategy is a strategy for the different seasons. the greatest risk now would be to go backwards in the face of a new global economic situation. on the contrary, what we need is to maintain the course for economic reforms in europe, but reforms that are for an open europe, a more socially inclusive europe, a more environmentally determined europe. we do not see any contradiction between these objectives. we think that now we need to focus on executing that strategy. it has been good and will continue to be good for the economic, social and environmental development of our europe.
i am allowed to interpret the president of the commission. it was not mr ferber who spoke, but mr langen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i should like to make use of an article of our rules of procedure to make a personal statement on several remarks made by colleagues from the other groups in relation to my speech to the president of the commission. i do not want to repeat the debate here, but i think it is clear that there are similarities and differences. the final words of the president of the commission cannot fail to show that his insistence on the lisbon strategy and the unchanged guidelines of the lisbon strategy is accompanied by a certain political message. his message is that we need not change these guidelines. our message is that they must be changed to improve social inclusion in europe. that's still a difference! (applause from the centre) but two things are unacceptable, mr president, and i want to make that very clear. if mr watson and, more importantly, mr karas, want to give the impression in this house that any criticism of the commission is sacrilegious because it divides the european institutions, then we will not do that! it is the european parliament's job to tell the commission which way to go. (applause from the centre) and it is my duty as chairman of this group to make it clear that we are witnessing a social imbalance in europe. if you think it's different, that's your business. but it is not a criticism of the commission that we should tell it that we would like it to change its guidelines. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. and i warn you that if you want to push the commission into the corner of the liberals and the epp-de, if you want to give the impression that it is a liberal-epp commission, then you are making a mistake, because you are ideologising this commission. we do not want that, we are sticking to our policy of cooperation with the commission. they are pushing mr barroso into the right corner, not us! (applause from the centre and the right) we want a policy of social justice! we are putting them forward here and we will not allow an institutional debate to be imposed on us if we are having a political debate here! (applause from the centre)
i am not going to go into detail. the rules of procedure only allow you to respond once more if you are addressed personally. those who have yet to come forward have not been personally addressed. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the conference of presidents has asked me to make a statement before the vote on the situation of the hostages in colombia. i hope this brings us together again in peace and reflection. on the sixth anniversary of the abduction of ingrid betancourt on 23 february, the eyes of the international community and the european parliament are once again focused on the human tragedy suffered by many of the 700 hostages held by the farc in colombia for several years in inhumane conditions. once again, this is also the occasion to call for their immediate release on humanitarian grounds. (applause from the centre) in view of the extremely worrying state of health of many of the hostages, including mrs betancourt herself, we call for her immediate release on humanitarian grounds and for the dispatch of an international medical mission to provide rapid medical aid to the hostages. we welcome the efforts of president uribe to seek dialogue in order to reach a humanitarian agreement. we express our solidarity with the victims, with the abducted and their families. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the report on national milk quotas, as did the green group. i am opposed to the 2% quota increase because such measures will lead to a deterioration in milk prices and threaten the existence of farms. i am in favour of a quantitative control of milk production after 2015, because without it the keeping of cows in mountain areas and disadvantaged regions, where dairy farming contributes to landscape management, is at risk. liberalisation would encourage the concentration of milk production in a few regions and on intensive farms. the losers are the small producers who, because of the low prices, are no longer able to produce at a cost.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a statement on the jeggle report. i voted against the report because, like my colleagues at the bavarian csu, i am against increasing the milk quota. we already have a situation where milk prices are falling sharply. we have had price reductions of over 30% in some products, and our dairy farmers have had too little income for years and have now been able to achieve fairly decent milk prices for six months. if the quota is increased, it means that milk prices will be put under pressure and our dairy farmers will again have to expect to be underpaid for their work. we have 48 000 farms in bavaria, employing 90 000 people in dairy farming and another 50 000 jobs in the upstream and downstream sectors, which together give 140 000 jobs. i do not understand why quotas are being increased in this important sector, because it is to the detriment of the farmers concerned. i would have been in favour of an extension in the applicant countries, because there is indeed too little quantity there.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for the same reason that i have just mentioned in the jeggle report, i and my colleagues from the csu voted against the lutz goepel report. both elisabeth jeggle and lutz goepel have produced excellent reports, and we could certainly agree with 98% of the points in the goepel report. but here is the crucial question: the report says that the milk quota should be increased by 2% on a voluntary basis, and i cannot agree with that. and if it has been said here that dairy products are too expensive, then i must strongly disagree. i have a statistic here which shows that in 1970 a german industrial worker had to work 22 minutes to buy 250 grams of butter, today he has to work only four minutes to buy it. a liter of milk took nine minutes of work then, but now it takes three. food is cheap and the increase in quotas threatens to bring down milk prices again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was originally going to vote against the report. but after mr tabajdi had made an oral explanation on paragraph 41, i voted in favour of it. i voted against paragraph 18, which says that biogas has led to competition in animal feed. i can't sign this. the 4 000 biogas plants in europe certainly do not contribute to a distortion of competition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural surpluses are not used for agricultural purposes. if the honourable member has mentioned the need to abolish the common agricultural policy, then biogas is one way in which we can also help the developing countries. europe also takes 80% of its agricultural exports from africa and 45% from central and south america. so we are not the ones who are causing these countries not to be able to export, they are completely different countries.
this was a beautiful contribution by the european youth orchestra conducted by pavel kotla. thank you very much. i would like to extend a very warm welcome to all of you, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the european parliamentary assembly. first of all, i would ask you, if you will, to join me in applauding all the former presidents who are here today, namely emilio colombo, lord henry plumb, enrique barón crespo, egon klepsch, klaus hänsch, josé maria gil robles, nicole fontaine and josep borrell fontelles. welcome, distinguished former presidents! (parliament adopted the resolution) i would like to extend a very warm welcome to the president of the european council, mr janez janša, and to the president of the european commission, mr josé manuel durão barroso. you are often here in the chamber, mr barroso, but you are especially welcome here today. (applause from the centre) it is a particular pleasure to welcome the president of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, mr lluís maria de puig, here in the plenary hall of the european parliament. welcome to the club. (applause from the centre) it is a pleasure to welcome the presidents of the belgian parliament, herman van rompuy, the italian parliament, fausto bertinotti, and the dutch senate, yvonne timmerman-buck, together with other representatives of the parliaments of bulgaria, the czech republic, germany, estonia, ireland, france, latvia, lithuania, luxembourg, poland, portugal, romania, slovakia, slovenia, the united kingdom and hungary to the european parliament. (applause from the centre) i welcome the presidents of the other european institutions: for the court of justice, the president of the first chamber of the european court of justice, mr peter jann; for the european court of auditors, mr viktor caldeira, president; for the european economic and social committee, mr dimitris dimitriadis; for the committee of the regions, mr luc van den brande; and as ombudsman, mr nikoforos diamandouros. welcome to the european parliament! (applause from the centre) it is a pleasure to welcome the local and regional representatives: the mayor of strasbourg, fabienne keller, the president of the regional council of alsace, adrien zeller, the president of the conseil général du bas-rhin, philippe richert, and the prefects of the alsace and bas-rhin regions, jean-marc rebière. welcome to the european parliament! (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, in 146th place is our colleague astrid lulling. it is the only one in the european parliament which has not yet been a member of the directly elected european parliament. (parliament adopted the resolution) almost exactly fifty years ago, on 19 march 1958, the joint parliamentary assembly of the three institutions - the european economic community, the european atomic energy community and the european coal and steel community - met for the first time here in strasbourg, in what was then the maison de l'europe, and was composed of representatives of the peoples of the states associated in the community, as stipulated in the treaties of rome, which had come into force a few weeks earlier. we are commemorating this anniversary today because we are in the continuity of this parliamentary assembly with its original 142 members . the first president of the joint parliamentary assembly was the great robert schuman. in his opening speech, he said that the assembly had an essential role to play in the development of a european spirit, and that 'the assembly has been and will remain the melting pot for this'. i think that is still true today. at the same time, he reminded his colleagues at the inaugural sitting that parliamentary work with 142 members - from six countries at the time - requires all the discipline, which is of course all the more true today, with 785 members from 27 countries, as we all know! shortly after the founding assembly, our predecessors began informally referring to their institution as the 'european parliament' - a phrase not found in the founding treaties of the european communities. four years later, in march 1962, the parliamentary assembly also decided to call itself the 'european parliament'. although the treaties establishing the european communities provided that 'the assembly should draw up drafts for direct general elections in accordance with a uniform procedure in all the member states' and that the council of ministers should 'unanimously adopt the relevant provisions and recommend them to the member states for adoption in accordance with their constitutional requirements', it was not until 1976 that the council of ministers, on the basis of a recommendation from the european parliament on 20 september 1976, adopted a corresponding legal act which decided to hold general and direct elections to the european parliament. the parliamentary assembly originally had little in the way of rights of its own. our predecessors foresaw that you would have a long road ahead of you in the process of european parliamentarisation, which would require from them and from the generations that followed a clear compass, bold initiative and patient perseverance. the european parliament has gradually acquired more and more rights, has become more and more aware of its responsibilities and its possibilities, and i think it is a great honour to be able to say this on behalf of all those present here today. (applause from the centre) we represent almost 500 million citizens of the union. we are the reflection of all the political currents in the european union. we are the freely elected parliament of the european union, united in the struggle for the best convictions. we have become self-confident and a force in european politics. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the main stages of this process, which began in 1958, have always been milestones on a common path towards european unification: in 1971 the european community received its own budget; the european parliament has since then played a major part in the adoption of the budget. in 1979, the first direct elections to the european parliament were held. in 1986, the single european act finally gave legal force to the concept of the 'european parliament'. fifteen years ago, with the entry into force of the maastricht treaty, the european parliament was given full co-decision in the first areas of community policy, and thus the possibility of shaping draft legislation in a substantial way and, if necessary, of preventing it from being adopted against the wishes of the council of ministers. the treaty of amsterdam further extended the right to vote. the lisbon treaty will de facto make the codecision procedure the rule of european law and therefore appropriately also speak of the ordinary legislative procedure. today we are 785 meps from 27 european nations. we represent over 150 national political parties, most of which are grouped in seven political groups. we are a joint legislative and budgetary body, equal to the council of ministers. we control the european commission, we elect its president or its president, and the commission needs our confidence to be in office. we are advocates of the primacy of community law. we are the chamber of citizens of the european union. the lisbon treaty, which we approved three weeks ago, will further strengthen our rights. in future, major issues affecting citizens in the european union today will only be decided by a majority vote in the european parliament. this is also true of the important questions of internal and legal policy. all this is not a cause for complacency and it was by no means the result of a natural process. we fought for it! i would like to thank the many colleagues who, over the past five decades, under the leadership of our presidents, have worked to strengthen parliamentarism in the context of european unification and have done so with merit. i would like to thank the members of the european parliament yesterday and today. (applause from the centre) jean monnet once said: 'nothing is possible without people, nothing lasts without institutions.' i would also like to mention paul henri spaak, the first president of the joint parliamentary assembly of the european coal and steel community (ecsc), the predecessor of the european parliament, which played a major role in the preparation of the treaties of rome by its report after the messina conference in june 1955. the path of parliamentary democracy in the european union has followed a logic similar to that which we know from the history of the european nation states. the institutional balance we have created today between the national and european levels is a great success of the balancing of the different levels of co-government in europe. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is properly represented in the european parliament. i am pleased to see that almost all the national parliaments of the member states of the european union are represented here today at a high level. (applause from the centre) i ask all of you - us members of the european parliament and the national parliaments - to continue to work for this good cooperation. the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights will make a decisive contribution to the realisation of democracy and parliamentarism at all levels in the european union. we can be proud of the fact that we have always supported the reform treaty and the charter of fundamental rights without question, ladies and gentlemen. (applause from the centre) we need the critical public, the critical support of our work. but we also have a right to fairness. the european union, with its diversity, is more complex than any other community in the world. i would ask the media to take this into account, since we urgently need them to communicate with the citizens. the european union must not be used as a scapegoat for national failures. (applause from the centre) one of the greatest achievements of our european vision in the last 50 years has been the establishment of democracy and freedom throughout europe. the accession of estonia, latvia, lithuania, poland, the czech republic, slovakia, hungary, slovenia, bulgaria, romania and the reunified germany remains an achievement we dreamed of and which has become a reality in our own day. today we are as the berlin declaration of 25 march 2007 says united in our happiness. this is a cause for great joy. the first step in taking stock of the past 50 years is to look to the future. we should be self-critical in remembering which aspects of european parliamentarism remain unsatisfactory to this day: unlike the national parliaments, we still lack the possibility of deciding within the budgetary procedure whether to raise our own financial resources. parliamentary rule is usually accompanied by parliamentary control of the military; the european union's common foreign, security and defence policy will remain incomplete without a sensible combination of national and european responsibilities. we still lack a common, uniform electoral law. we are therefore missing an important prerequisite for having effective european parties running with common lists in the european parliament elections. the european parliament has been fighting for its place since the first meeting of the european parliamentary assembly, with patience, long breath and a clear compass. that's the way it is, that's the way it should be, and that's the way it has to be. as a directly elected supranational representative of the people, the european parliament - and i notice it and you notice it when you travel around the world - has become a model for similar efforts in other regions of the world. when robert schuman took office as the first president of the european parliamentary assembly on 19 march 1958, such a positive development of parliamentarism in europe was hardly foreseeable. but robert schuman had a vision. he spoke of the european idea which had to be revived, of 'la relance de l'idée européenne'. what could be a better guiding motive for the task ahead of us today, after the crisis-ridden developments surrounding the failed constitutional treaty? in his short speech on 19 march 1958, robert schuman expressed concern that a technocratic view of things could lead to european unity being marginalized. that is true today as well. robert schuman was realistic, modest and clear in describing the possibilities of the joint parliamentary assembly, which he chaired until 1960: 'we want to contribute', he said in his warm, humanitarian voice, 'to create a new core of the european structure'. robert schuman concluded his first speech as president of the european parliamentary assembly by declaring that he was committed to the unification of our continent, to the unification of europe, which must be seen as a community of values of the free peoples of our continent: 'ainsi seulement l'europe réussira à mettre en valeur le patrimoine total qui est commun à tous les pays libres'. i would like to follow that up. the european union is a community of values. our institutions are not an end in themselves, they serve our values: human dignity, human rights, democracy, the rule of law, economic and social well-being; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used in a proper manner. europe means respect for one another, respect for our diversity, respect for the dignity of all our member states, large and small. this respect cannot be imposed, but it is the necessary condition for our mutual understanding and for our common action. the respect for european law, which enables us to balance our interests peacefully and to resolve conflicts peacefully, must be supplemented by the unwritten rules of our european coexistence: respect for one another. (applause from the centre) i would like to encourage and call for this respect for one another, wherever we stand politically. if we can achieve this mutual respect - tolerance for each other while respecting our own convictions, but a commitment to compromise - then the european union and the european parliament can be a model for peace in the world. our european heritage is anchored in the freedom and unity of our peoples, united in the european union. we honour robert schuman and all the members of the first european parliamentary assembly by striving to prove worthy of their succession by working for a responsible, open and citizen-oriented european parliament, which must also be determined to take a political lead when necessary. if we continue to do so, we need not fear the judgment of those who will follow us and, in 2058, the year of the 100th anniversary of the european parliament, will assess our work today. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to us in the present. (applause from the centre and the right)
the chairman of the council. - "my speech cannot be emotionally cold. " with these words, robert schuman, the first president of the european parliamentary assembly, addressed your house for the first time on 19 march 1958. fifty years later, on your anniversary, we feel the same way. i am not speaking to the 142 national members of the european parliament, but to the 785 directly elected members of the european parliament. looking back on the journey and the flowering of european democracy over the past five decades can fill us with pride and a deep sense of gratitude to the founding fathers of the european idea. at the same time, it places on us a responsibility to do our part to continue the european story of peace, cooperation and prosperity. let's turn our memories back to 1958, to a society facing the aftermath of two devastating wars, to a world of bipolar balance of power between east and west, to the cold war, the cuban revolution, the first chip, nuclear testing and the launch of satellites into space. the six member states of the european union then brought together 168 million europeans, healing the wounds of the post-war period, boosting economic growth and securing an area of freedom and democracy with the euro-atlantic alliance. sadly, much of the rest of europe lived in a totalitarian environment, stagnating or even declining economically and civilisationally. in 2008, we face a completely different picture: the multipolar world is no longer about economic or political competition, but increasingly about cooperation in finding answers to current challenges. the abolition of borders that have divided europe from the berlin wall, the iron curtain to internal border controls continues at the end of this month with the abolition of air borders within the enlarged schengen area. the european union today is more than three times the size it was fifty years ago, has three times as many people, 23 official languages, a strengthened internal market and a common currency, and its citizens live on average about eight years longer. twenty-seven heads of state and government, more than a third of whom lived under totalitarian regimes 20 years ago, will be sitting down tomorrow to decide. the wider europe is also now almost entirely free and democratic. this is an achievement that should be recognized and celebrated. the life and work of the european parliament from 1958 to the present day clearly reflect the progress made in integration over the past 50 years. after an initial consultative role, you acquired the first powers in the field of the european budget in the early 1970s and marked the first direct elections at the end of the 1970s. the new treaties give you greater powers to adopt legislation and appoint the highest european political representatives. the new european commission cannot be without your trust either. just as the treaties of rome in 1958 gave the parliamentary assembly new responsibilities, the treaty of lisbon fifty years later represents a major step forward for the european parliament. the codecision procedure will be extended to almost all european policies, and parliament's role in democratic control, the conclusion of international agreements and the appointment of the european high representatives will be strengthened. i am very pleased that you approved the report on the lisbon reform treaty by such a convincing majority in the plenary last month. i also congratulate all the member states that have already successfully completed their ratification procedures and hope that all the others will soon follow. if the first 50 years of the european union were devoted to the european agenda, our political and economic development and reforms, the next 50 years will surely be more focused on the global agenda. the list for tomorrow's european council is a good illustration of this. it is clear that we will only be able to respond adequately to the lisbon challenges, environmental and energy issues and financial market shocks if we take account of global trends and global actors and integrate all of this into our activities. this also applies to the field of human rights and intercultural dialogue, where you undoubtedly play a leading role in the european parliament. on behalf of the european council, i take this opportunity to commend you for your active role in raising awareness of human rights violations, in election observation and in the work of your delegations in international institutions such as the un human rights council. your role in the framework of joint parliamentary assemblies is also important, as it adds value to the european union's policies towards third countries and regions. through your activities and meetings with high-ranking guests, you will reinforce one of the fundamental european traditions: that mutual respect and understanding are the foundations of coexistence both at european and global level. the range of activities of the european union is ever-increasing, but the same rule applies to all: success grows in direct proportion to unity. unity between member states, sectors, stakeholders and generations, between regional, national, european and global factors. the institutions of the european union must set an example in this respect. "every man begins the world anew. only institutions that nurture the collective experience mature. " jean monnet brings us one step closer to explaining why the vision of the european union is often still different from reality, why many europeans, despite the more than obvious successes of the last fifty years, still doubt the merits of european integration. to understand and appreciate the freedom, peace, diversity, the boundlessness, the benefits and the prospects of a united europe, we must always be aware that there are other, much worse alternatives. it is therefore our common task to revive the collective european experience. it can give us the strength to face the challenges of our time. we must combine the past with the future. if we had not joined forces 50 years ago, we would probably not be living in peace and prosperity today. and the same is true for the next 50 years. if we don't work together to find low-carbon and energy-efficient solutions, we're not going to be able to slow down climate change. we will face more and more floods, hurricanes, droughts, new diseases, threatened ecosystems and climate refugees. it is essential that the results of european decisions and actions are sufficiently concrete and tangible to enable citizens to understand the decisive importance of the european union in maintaining and improving the quality of life. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your contribution to the development of the european union over the past five decades. i know what that time in our generation's lives was like, because i was born the same year as the european parliament. i wish you much success in your work towards the end of this mandate and beyond, and a wealth of fresh ideas and unwavering commitment to the development of european values, european democracy and the european way of life. i am convinced that the next round of anniversaries of this european home of democracy will enable us to celebrate once again the progress europe has made, which is visible everywhere. (applause) i'm going to go.
i would like to thank the president of the european council. i would now like to ask the president of the european commission, mr josé manuel durão barroso, to speak.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, mr president of the various european institutions, former presidents of the european parliament, members of the european parliament, representatives of the national parliaments, and guests, i am very pleased to be able to celebrate with you the first half-century of the european parliament. it is an anniversary which has a strong symbolic and political charge for our europe. fifty years ago, robert schuman was convening a new single assembly under his chairmanship. the three european communities had just created the first matrix of european democracy. since then, this fundamental political choice has been constantly reaffirmed at every stage of the european construction. the founding fathers had, above all, the intuition that the nascent europe needed strong and democratic european institutions to enshrine the ever deeper ties created between the six. in the spirit of jean monnet's brilliant vision, these institutions also needed to be able to evolve to keep pace with what they perceived as the twofold movement of the future: deepening integration on the one hand and geographical enlargement on the other. and let me say that it is always moving to see here, in this house of european democracy, the directly elected representatives of the peoples who, until very recently, were divided by dictatorships that did not allow europe to breathe freely. (applause) i would like to thank the institutional triangle that the founding fathers left us is a model that is unique in the world and has largely proved its vitality and strength over the last fifty years. it has adapted to a tremendous expansion of the scope of the tasks entrusted to the community and now to the union. it has also adapted to the tremendous dynamic of enlargement of our union. and we owe this success to the ingenuity and balance of our institutional structure, which does not obey a classical distribution of power. we also owe this success to our way of working which respects both the community method and the principle of subsidiarity. but institutions are not an end in themselves. they serve an ideal and a purpose. they are at the service of our citizens. the stronger the institutions, the better they serve this ideal and our citizens. the founding fathers wanted to build europe for peace first. they wanted to build this new europe through solidarity. they have chosen economics as the driver of their political vision and goals. fifty years later, europe, at peace and expanded to the size of a continent, needs strong institutions to meet the challenge of its time, globalisation. this is a challenge that no member state can meet alone. with its experience of opening up markets and rules that reflect its values of freedom, solidarity and sustainable development, europe alone has the dimensions, institutions and instruments to manage and shape globalisation. to meet this challenge, 21st century europe must unite to succeed in the knowledge economy and provide jobs for europeans and also give more dynamism to its economy. it must take its rightful place in world affairs: that of a europe without arrogance, a europe which is able to offer - not impose - but to offer the world the values of freedom and solidarity. we will succeed if we maintain a constructive partnership between our institutions. in this partnership, i would like to commend the european parliament for its contribution to the european project in all aspects of the lives of our citizens. in fifty years, the european parliament has gained a great deal of competence and power. i am talking about power translated into legitimacy, which is directly derived from the vote of the european people. i am also talking about formal power - codecision, budgetary power, democratic control over the european institutions. i mean, i'm talking about political influence. parliament has established itself both as a co-legislator and as a key partner in the institutional triangle and in european public life, but also by establishing increasingly close links with the national parliaments, many of which are represented here today. the power that parliament has gained over time has only strengthened europe as a whole. a strong european parliament is an indispensable partner for the other institutions, and in particular - i would like to stress this - for the european commission. i think i can say that the relationship between our two institutions is growing closer, stronger and more mature, and i welcome that. the treaty of lisbon, when ratified, will further strengthen the community institutions as a whole. it will extend the powers of the european parliament. it will strengthen the commission's dual democratic legitimacy through closer links with the european parliament and the european council. it will provide the european council with a stable presidency which will ensure greater coherence in the preparation and follow-up of european councils. it will develop the role of the high representative for the common foreign and security policy, who will also be vice-president of the european commission. by strengthening the legitimacy and effectiveness of our institutions, the lisbon treaty is a major step forward for the european union. today and tomorrow we must understand that there must be no zero-sum game between the institutions. none of our institutions should be strengthened at the expense of the others. on the contrary, we all want stronger european institutions if we want more efficiency and democracy in europe. all our institutions have something to gain from the consolidation of the european institutional architecture. ladies and gentlemen, as i think of the date we are commemorating today, the fiftieth anniversary, a quote from a great portuguese woman writer, agustina bessa luis, comes to mind. she said, "at 15, you have a future, at 25, you have a problem, at 40, you have an experience, but before half a century, you don't really have a story". today, the european parliament, this house of european democracy, can proudly say that it has a great history in its past, i am sure, but also in its future. i would therefore like to extend to you, on behalf of the european commission and on my own behalf, my sincere congratulations and best wishes for your work in favour of a united europe. (applause) i would like to thank
i would also like to thank the president of the european commission and, on behalf of all the members, to welcome the former secretary-general, mr hans joachim opitz, who is also here today. now we look forward to the european youth orchestra. (short concert by the european union youth orchestra) (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (the sitting was suspended from 4.15 p.m. to 4.20 p.m.)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i would like to make two points. firstly, we are very pleased to have this report and to see that it clearly shows the role and commitment of the european union in iraq. we believe it is absolutely necessary that integration into the trading system takes place. the wto is, of course, an ideal platform for this. we will have to give much more technical assistance than we have done so far. this technical assistance must focus on the introduction of the european economic system and also to a certain extent on european enterprises. as far as funding is concerned, we are a little skeptical that everything should be handled through the un or the world bank or the multi-donor trust fund. we would very much welcome it if, to some extent, we could also build our own capacities, manage our own projects and then have a data base, our own knowledge base. we would be very grateful if you could make your decisions in this spirit.
in writing. the report by mrs ana gomes on the eu's role in iraq unfortunately avoids the two central issues related to iraq: the occupation forces of the united states, the united kingdom, other eu countries and many other countries are stationed in iraq. these troops have been there since the invasion of iraq in 2003, which was unlawful under international law. this was justified by proven lies (e.g. colin powell's lies before the un security council on alleged weapons of mass destruction in iraq). all the amendments, including those tabled by my group, gue/ngl, which clearly included the many deaths caused by this war and the continuing occupation and a criticism of the completely wrong attack on iraq, have been rejected. the report by mrs gomes on iraq thus contains virtually no statements on this central aspect. i voted against this report because, in its present form, it denies the reality of the situation. in this context, it is fatal to ask the european union to play a more extensive role, because it will thus become part of the war and occupation regime. nevertheless, the report also contains a number of supportive statements. but anyone who is silent about war and occupation is complicit!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not we meet here at least once a year to discuss arms exports, while arms exports are booming. for years this parliament has been calling for the code of conduct to be legally binding, and the council of the eu is not in a position to do that. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. it is a shame that this code of conduct is not legally binding. meanwhile, the eu and its member states have become the world's number one arms exporter. guns are for killing! every arms export is wrong. eu member states also supply in crisis and conflict areas. the turkish invasion of northern iraq, which was against international law, was carried out with german weapons. eu countries are also fighting wars, for example in iraq or afghanistan, and supplying arms to friendly belligerent states. this has got to stop. stop all arms exports! the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. we have tabled amendments to these two subjects for tomorrow's debate. i am very much looking forward to seeing whether this parliament will accept these amendments. as i said, arms exports kill people every day and must be stopped urgently.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the eu has sent a eufor mission to chad and there was the first eufor soldier killed. that was to be feared. it is alleged that the french elite troops accidentally crossed the border into sudan. is there any point in this eufor mission? we say no! the troops cannot be neutral. the majority of eufor troops are french, and france has a military agreement with the military coup leader déby, and has helped him with weapons and with the security of the airport during the rebel attack. the rebel attack took place just before the start of the eufor deployment. the eufor mission was thus aggravating and counterproductive. idriss déby has used the situation following the rebel attack to take action against the democratic opposition. the eu has become a player in the midst of the chaos. the eufor troops must be withdrawn at once! france and thus indirectly the eu are in collusion with the military ruler déby in chad. the democratic opposition in chad is calling for more civilian pressure on the government of chad, and that should be the position here and not a further militarization of the conflict.
i am not going to go into detail. i would like to tell you today how i dealt with the incidents of serious disturbance during the formal signing of the charter of fundamental rights on wednesday 12 december, here in strasbourg, which you will all remember. after the conference of presidents had dealt with these incidents, i invited a number of colleagues to speak on the basis of rule 147 of the rules of procedure in order to hear them before a decision was taken on possible sanctions. i explained to each of the colleagues the reason for the invitation to the interview. the basis of parliamentarism is freedom of speech. in a democratic parliament no speaker should be prevented from speaking by the systematic shouting of colleagues who hold a different opinion. this is of course all the more true of speakers who are here in the house as guests and representatives of other institutions. i made it clear that i had invited the members because, even after i had asked them to remain quiet in the chamber, they had continued to try to prevent the speakers from speaking by shouting. the sanction should not be imposed because they held up posters and banners. so it's about restricting free speech. following these discussions, i have decided to take the following measures in accordance with rule 147 (3) of the rules of procedure: in nine cases, the loss of entitlement to daily allowance for a period of between two and five days, in one case, for five days, in six cases for three days, in two cases for two days and in another case, the issuing of a reprimand. i should like to read to you first what i said to my colleagues in my letter informing them of the measure in question. i quote: 'i fully understand your right and the right of any member to oppose the adoption of the charter of fundamental rights or the treaty of lisbon and to express this position in accordance with the rules laid down in the rules of procedure. i also have a certain understanding of the great emotions that such topics sometimes bring. however, i believe that a line must be drawn between legitimate conduct under the rules of procedure and the disturbances as they occurred on 12 december. we cannot allow actions which would prevent other members or official guests - in this case the presidents of other institutions of the european union - from speaking with dignity and without deliberate interruption after they have been given the floor in accordance with rule 9 (2) of the rules of procedure, within the framework of the agenda decided by parliament itself. the very essence of parliamentarism and democracy is that freedom of expression also respects the right of others, in this case those who have been given the floor to speak in the plenary. in accordance with rule 147 of the rules of procedure, the 10 members concerned were informed of the decision concerning them. the following persons are deprived of their right to daily allowances: jim allister for 3 days, godfrey blum for 2 days, sylwester chruszcz for 2 days, paul marie coûteaux for 5 days, maciej marian giertych for 3 days, roger helmer for 3 days, roger knapman for 3 days, hans-peter martin for 3 days and philippe de villiers for 3 days. the issue of a reprimand concerns vladimir železný. the presidents of the institutions, delegations and committees to which the members belong were also informed. in three cases i have refrained from applying article 147 because, after talking to the people concerned, i was convinced that the colleagues had not taken part in the action. ladies and gentlemen, that is my decision. i felt obliged to make them publicly available to you here, officially, so that parliament is informed of what i had to do. i hope that events like those of 12 december 2007 will not be repeated here in the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i had another group of visitors here today. many of my colleagues know that you have groups of visitors - sometimes large, sometimes small. the largest groups of visitors are the silver generation. so is the group today. sixty people, very interested, really involved, active, and more are coming. this is the challenge for europe! demographic change is often presented as a threat. the numbers are impressive. between 2010 and 2030, we expect a 40% increase in people aged 65 to 80. but i do not see that as a threat, as does mr van nistelrooij. this is a great opportunity for us europeans to show that we are the region in the world that cares most about life - life in all its forms and at all ages! we must take better care of the elderly and we must do so as europeans rather than as the region of the world that is the zone of life. this aal programme - i would like to congratulate the commission for having put forward this proposal - links this major trend, the demographic change - which we have in europe more than in other regions - with our strengths in research and innovation. we are strong in ict technologies, and here both trends are being brought together. it is quite clear that we as the european union have no direct competence when it comes to standards for the elderly, when it comes to building houses, etc. but with this pilot programme we can show pilot examples of best practice. we can bring together what is already working best in europe in some member states, put a european stamp on it and really set an example. the commission's programme is helping to reduce the digital divide in society. i would like to thank the reporter, neena gill, for communicating in a really extreme way, much more than other reporters, i have to tell you. i would like to thank you very much for this. you have also fought bravely for parliament in the trilogue and have passed our points quite well. so we don't have to hide. i therefore can only say, as a representative of parliament, that we wish the aal programme every success. all the best!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr claude turmes, for his good and dedicated work. the global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund is an active contribution to europe's fight against climate change. as the shadow rapporteur on the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would like to make two points. first, the fund must ensure that sustainability is given the highest priority in the projects to be supported. it is therefore important that greenhouse gas emissions are analysed over the entire life cycle of the projects to be supported and that, if necessary, projects are not supported if their carbon footprint is unsatisfactory. this analysis must be applied particularly to projects where biomass is involved. secondly, i am optimistic and i expect that at the copenhagen climate conference next year we will be successful and that we will be able to launch a successor agreement to kyoto. the use of renewable energy sources will then play an important role for developing countries. the commission should take this into account today and adapt the fund accordingly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, thank you for your speech. the european parliament welcomes this fund. commissioner dimas, you have taken the right initiative at the right time. if we as europeans have committed ourselves to reducing co2 emissions, then it does not matter where co2 is emitted. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat the problem of co2 emissions. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done in this area. it is not just a question of providing development aid, but we europeans must not only take the lead on climate change, but we must also take others along on our journey; they must be able to follow us. i think that is the crucial approach where this fund can help. if we set ourselves exaggerated goals and end up alone and isolated, then our industrial base is also at the end. that's why we need to create global governance. bali was a good approach, copenhagen will be another approach. but global governance is not just about leveraging power, we need to create incentive systems, and i think this hedge fund here is creating the right incentive system. claude turmes spoke at the beginning of his speech about martin luther king's dream. we europeans can only achieve our european dream of saving the climate if we make consistent progress along this path. claude turmes, you will get a very, very large majority for your report tomorrow! i'm happy for you.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not this report is important because the situation of women in prison must finally be brought to light and the shortcomings pointed out. women's rights are also and especially in prisons. the european union is fortunately not yet in a situation like that in the united states, where imprisonment and the confinement of people have become a lucrative business. but in europe too, the number of women in prison is increasing. therefore, their specific situation must be taken into account. one is the health care system that we just talked about. women in prisons have experienced violence, sexual or otherwise, either in prison or before, and need adequate psychological and therapeutic support, often also because they are addicts. there is a risk of sexual exploitation in prison. we must pay particular attention to the situation of mothers. we cannot allow a situation like the one in germany to happen again, where a woman was deprived of her infant of only a few months because there was no room for a mother and child in prison, and so mother and child were separated for months. we also need more money for the reintegration of women. i am particularly keen to raise awareness of the special situation of girls and women with a migrant background. if these women come to europe and are held in detention centres, we must pay particular attention to their situation in these detention centres, because many of them also have prison-like conditions. girls and women are held in detention centres as refugees, asylum seekers and irregular migrants. there is no eu law to date that sets a maximum length of time for which they may be detained in these centres. finally, we urge that the protection of particularly vulnerable groups, especially victims of sexual violence, be improved.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to return to the actual subject of the report and thank mrs budreikaitė very warmly for her report, which i consider to be very balanced and very competent. it is also very important at this particular moment because it is now possible to draw an interim balance and draw conclusions from it for the purpose of strengthening development cooperation between the new member states, particularly with a focus on the acp states. it is clear that accession to the eu naturally implies a contractual obligation to adopt the acquis communautaire. but it is also clear that the treaty is one thing and public awareness of a policy focus in the respective countries is another. the figures presented emphasize this point. development cooperation with african, asian and latin american countries often appears to be a less urgent task in countries which are themselves economically backward. we must therefore work together to ensure that the importance of this task is recognised and that, in view of the development cooperation which has existed in the past with some countries, especially african countries, it can be re-established. many of the ties that existed before 1989 have been severed very quickly and yet almost silently. some of it is quite regrettable. there are a number of projects that have been started in these states that have become successes. i think we need to start over here. i also regret a little that, in agreement with the commission, development cooperation in almost all the central and eastern european member states is being concentrated on cooperation with the former soviet republics, thereby neglecting the real objective of development cooperation, namely the achievement of the millennium development goals. even if the new member states succeed in raising their oda to 0.17% by 2010, as agreed, it is feared that only a fraction of this will go to development and support for the world's poorest countries. i would like to thank mrs budreikaitė once again for her report.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. five days ago, the 100th international women's day was celebrated. much has been achieved, but there is no question of equal opportunities in the poorest countries of the world. the human rights of women and girls are far from being an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of the universal human rights, as demanded by the 1993 vienna declaration of the united nations. in my report i have dealt extensively with the situation of women and girls in developing countries and i have also dealt with how european development cooperation can improve the living conditions of these women. let me just give you some facts and figures. two thirds of the world's illiterate are women. more than 40% of women in africa have not attended primary school. in africa, women make up 52% of the total population, but they do 75% of the work in agriculture and produce and market 60-80% of the food. the commission's updated strategy on gender equality and women's participation in development cooperation addresses key areas and proposes concrete actions to promote gender equality. the strategy's dual approach of both making gender mainstreaming more efficient and proposing specific measures to promote equality is welcome. i would also like to highlight the 41 concrete measures in the fields of governance, employment, economy, education, health and violence against women. i have nevertheless criticised a number of points in my report. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. as regards the fight against traditional violence, i believe that it should be at the heart of the measures to combat violence against women. secondly, i am very surprised that the economic partnership agreements are not mentioned in the strategy. nowhere is there any mention of the link between the empowerment of women and the economic agreements between the eu and the acp countries. as regards the specific situation of women in conflict, i regret that the strategy does not address the particular role of women in the so-called weak states and the least developed countries. particular attention should also be paid to the reproductive health and sexual rights of women in developing countries. i very much regret that most of the amendments are concerned only with deleting passages from the report which call for the right of women to determine their bodies and lives freely and independently. i do not want to be unmodest, but my report should not be reduced to this subject. in this context i welcome the proposals made by mrs buitenweg on behalf of the green group. thank you for your important contributions. i would like to say this about reproductive health: every woman has the right to decide independently and freely about her body and her life. the full access of women to sexual and reproductive health is a prerequisite for gender equality. as long as women are denied access to these services, it is others who control women's bodies and lives. this, ladies and gentlemen, is something that no one who cares about europe's humanistic tradition, our common values and respect for human rights can hope for. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent report and also congratulate the commission on its communication. the call is also to be consistent now. i was with some colleagues from national parliaments at the invitation of the european parliamentary forum in new york to the commission on the status of women ten days ago. it is interesting that the countries which are our acp partners talk in this way in contact with brussels and their respective capitals, and then in new york, when it comes to negotiating the matter at a global level, they talk in a completely different way. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to be consistent and to tell your delegations that the behaviour in new york is also discussed in the respective capitals, because our objectives in the field of women and development are often contradicted in new york! in this context, i am very pleased that unifem is now opening an office in brussels, which will certainly raise the quality of the debate between the united nations and the european union in this area. i am particularly pleased that microcredit is mentioned as one of the means of empowerment, of liberation for women. there are some facilities that are relatively obscure ... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. - mr president, i shall be very brief because i am sure we do not have time to talk at length. i would simply like to return to the question from mrs gomes. why are there so few specific actions for gender in country strategies? it is very simple: the country strategies are defined and determined by the partner countries themselves, since they have to choose two areas of focus, and we are not the ones who impose on them the sectors they have to choose. i would point out, however, that in projects everywhere we insist on the presence of this gender issue. mr lambsdorff, i understand that you have some difficulty accepting the lack of unity in the european union's position in new york, but i think you should address yourself not to the commission - it is not the commission that can remedy this - but to the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. very briefly - some will probably find me a bit provocative - but i would like to share my personal conviction with you. i fully agree with those who believe that reproductive health is a prerequisite for women's equality. i think it is unthinkable to deal with this matter and this issue without agreeing on this precondition, as well as on access to education, employment and micro-credit. these are obviously important elements, but, fundamentally, creating the conditions for women's free choice is a fundamental principle of equality between men and women. there's no denying that! (applause) i would like to thank i would also invite those who may doubt the human tragedy of the situation of women in some developing countries to go and see what is happening on the ground and hear the testimony of some women who are in utter distress. that's all i wanted to say; i don't think i have much else to add. i thank you, however, for the quality of the debate.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. i would like to thank all the speakers for their interesting contributions. i would like to thank mrs creţu in particular for the opinion she has drawn up in the committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission's clear analysis and its suggestions for greater coherence have added many important points to the report. i am sorry that i cannot answer all your questions for reasons of time. please don't take this as a sign of disrespect. i would like to thank mrs van lancker, mr berman, mr lambsdorff, mr hutchinson, mrs scheele, mrs doyle, mrs weber, mr varvitsiotis, mrs hassi and mrs gomes for their work. you are absolutely right that reproductive health is a top priority in the developing world, and it is important to fight for it with courage and consistency. mrs krupa, i strongly disagree with your view that sexual freedom for women provokes violence. this logic is outrageous and discriminatory! (applause from the centre) mr. deva, i didn't expect anything else from you! please forgive me if i make this remark to you. dear luisa morgantini, dear mr romeva i rueda, you have found, as always, strong words to make it clear that women do not want alms, but simply what is their due as half of humanity. i thank all those who have supported my report. i am also pleased that my report has been consistently welcomed by the ngos working in the field of development and women's rights. i would like to thank you very much for your cooperation and support. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was a sharp and clear critic and opponent of the iraq war and i still am. but i think we also have to make up for the mistakes we made there. that is why we, as the western world - europe and the united states together - are obliged to do everything possible to ensure peace and stability, and that is going to be difficult enough. that is why the gomes report is excellent. but we should really take this opportunity to support the initiative of our colleague záborská for the release of the abducted archbishop. i regret that, because of a management error on the part of this house, the relevant resolution is not on the agenda this afternoon. we have a duty to do everything possible to help this representative of a minority whose very existence is threatened, which has lived for centuries in peace with its muslim neighbours and which is threatened with genocide at a time when we in iraq are responsible for it. this is unacceptable and we must therefore make a serious effort to deal with this issue.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against this report with a large part of my group, not because of the subject but because this important issue is being misused again and again for ideological battles over the terms sexual and reproductive health and rights. i would like to appeal to all the groups in this house to stop this ideological dispute at the expense of the cause. we must make it clear that reproductive health is important, but that it has nothing to do with abortion, because this is not the responsibility of the european union, and that each state also has the right to determine its own legal system in this area. this is in line with the principle of subsidiarity, and therefore no funds from european citizens can be used for purposes which are not acceptable in the member states of the european union for ethical, moral and legal reasons. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the health of the unborn, but that we should be concerned about the health of the unborn.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. in the run-up to this resolution, some of us were accused of being enemies or opponents of russia. we are the opposite! we are friends of russia, and because we are friends of russia, we are concerned about democracy and the rule of law in this important european country. we strongly protest against the imprisonment of oppositionists who have done nothing but point to a fact that all international institutions have registered, namely that the presidential elections in russia were extremely unfair. we call for the immediate release of the opposition members and also of the other people who have been in prison and in labour camps for a long time, such as the so-called yukos prisoners khodorkovsky and lebedev, and i support the appeal by chancellor merkel to release these two personalities at last. we must also be clear about one thing: the newly elected russian president has a unique opportunity to make a fresh start, to make a change towards democracy and the rule of law and to pursue a less nationalistic and aggressive foreign policy. but then he has to break free of the entanglements of gazprom, then he has to break free of the putin system, and unfortunately we have not the slightest indication of that. that is why it is our duty to be honest critics. these are not the friends of russia who, like the former german chancellor schröder, are court singers and lauders of the putin system and allow themselves to be drawn into the propaganda of this system and into the economic and nationalist interests of this system, but they are the friends of russia who stand up for the human and civil rights of the russian people, who have a chance for democratic development. if we remain silent, democracy and the rule of law will be finally stifled in their weak approaches, which president yeltsin has developed and which president putin has endangered, and this cannot be in the interests of europe or the russian people! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my group is quite clearly in favour of mr kazemi's protection and, of course, against his extradition to iran. but we are against this resolution because it is not a matter of urgency as it should be, but concerns the right of asylum in the european union in general and the relationship between two eu member states, namely the netherlands and the united kingdom, on this difficult issue. that is not the point of these emergency decisions! they're being used to promote domestic issues. we are in favour of protecting mr kazemi, we will support any initiative in this direction, but not this resolution, which has the title of mr kazemi but means something quite different in substance.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the evidence in this case is so contradictory. the commissioner has also said something different from what is in the motion for a resolution. he said britain would not extradite. i therefore propose to my group that we do not vote no, as originally intended, but that we abstain and that we deal more thoroughly with such cases in this house in the future. they really don't fit into the urgency debates.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on wednesday, 26 march 2008.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 3 april 2008, pursuant to rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: thursday: the socialist group requests that the report by mrs jäätteenmäki on the statute of the european ombudsman be postponed until the next partsession in strasbourg and that the voting time be brought forward to 11 a.m.
would anyone like to speak in favor of the motion?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i think mr swoboda's argument was brief, but it was precise. there are in fact one or two aspects, and that is why i am in favour of postponing it.
who opposes the motion?
the agenda is therefore closed.
i am pleased to welcome to the visitors' gallery a high-level delegation from the turkish parliament, who have come to brussels for a three-day study visit. among them are the vice-chairman of the ak party, mr nihat ergün, the chairman of the eu committee, mr yasar yakis, and the chairman of the planning and budget committee, mr sait acba. (applause from the centre) we wish you a pleasant stay and successful discussions with representatives of the european parliament, the commission and the council. welcome to the european parliament!
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
- i'm not going to. you are quite right about the second part of your conclusion, it was a roll-call vote and roll-call votes have the characteristic that you can identify by name how each vote was cast.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in lebanon.
the chairman of the council. - first of all, i would like to congratulate the reports by the honourable members mr swoboda and mr meijer on the progress of croatia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. we are also pleased that the european parliament has included a debate on the progress of both candidates on the agenda. the slovenian presidency attaches particular importance to the european integration of the western balkan countries. in this context, i would remind you that the ministers for foreign affairs, at their informal meeting at the end of march, sent a positive message to the western balkans region on its european perspective. we consider that such a message is welcome and appropriate in this difficult period for the region. first of all, as regards croatia, i would like to stress that the accession negotiations with croatia are proceeding as planned. and here i would like to express my agreement with the assessment of the honourable member swobode that croatia has made substantial progress in meeting the requirements of the accession process over the past two years. sixteen of the 35 negotiating chapters have been opened, two chapters have already been provisionally closed. two accession conferences with croatia are planned in april and june, and if the criteria for opening chapters are met, some new chapters will be opened at these two accession conferences. i would stress that the slovenian presidency is committed to continuing the process of enlargement of the european union and to further progress in the negotiations. however, i would stress that the speed of the negotiations depends mainly on the candidate country and its progress in meeting the conditions. these are set out in the negotiating framework, the revised partnership for accession adopted by the council in february this year and other acts. i repeat, croatia has made significant progress, but the fact is that we still have a lot of work to do. in future, as mr swoboda points out, even more attention will have to be paid to the further transposition and effective implementation of the acquis communautaire. croatia should continue its efforts to meet the conditions and to make faster progress. in this context, i would like to highlight in particular: judicial and administrative reform, the fight against corruption, economic reform, minority rights, the return of refugees and full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia. it is also essential, on the basis of the documents i have listed, that croatia continues to pursue good neighbourly relations, which of course includes efforts to resolve outstanding issues. i should like to continue with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia: as mr meijer points out in his report, it is the only country with candidate status since 2005 which has not yet opened accession negotiations. we believe that this should be exceeded this year, if the conditions are met. the main message of a recent european commission document was therefore that the autumn progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia could be positive, provided the key priority tasks are fulfilled. and a similar message was sent from an informal meeting of foreign ministers in slovenia at the end of march. in this context, it should be borne in mind that the country has already demonstrated its role as a major factor of stability in the region. this role should be recognised and positive signals should be given to encourage this country to continue its constructive role in the region and to pursue reforms. one such signal is the recent launch of negotiations on a graduated visa regime, or visa liberalisation dialogue. we agree with the assessment of the rapporteur, mr meijer, that the government in skopje is consistently implementing the ohrid agreement, in particular in the area of decentralisation and the representation of ethnic minorities in public administration. we want to see progress as soon as possible in resolving some of the remaining issues that are critical to the albanian community. slovenia, as the presidency of the council of the european union, encourages all political parties to strengthen political dialogue and inter-ethnic cooperation in order to achieve the next step in the process of integration into the european union this year. in this context, i would like to express our sincere regret that the last negotiations on the name issue have not produced the desired results. we also regret that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has not received an invitation to join nato. given the great effort the state has put into obtaining the invitation, we hope that it will soon join the other two candidates who have received the invitation. in a statement after the nato summit, the slovenian presidency called for the name negotiations to continue and be concluded as soon as possible. it called on all political leaders in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to maintain the consensus already reached on the country's european and euro-atlantic future. at the same time, it recommended that the state make the best use of the remaining time until the commission's regular autumn progress report.
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome mr swoboda’s report on croatia and mr meijer’s report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. on croatia, i find that the swoboda report addresses the main issues where croatia will face challenges on its path to the european union, focusing particularly on the political sphere. it is a solid report that will reflect realities even better if amendments 15 and 16 by the rapporteur are adopted, for instance concerning the timetable of the process. croatia’s accession negotiations have generally been going well, although they have been affected by the application of the ecological and fisheries protection zone – the famous, or infamous, zerp issue. i welcome the recent decision of the sabor, the croatian parliament, to suspend the application of all aspects of the zerp for eu vessels, in line with croatia’s earlier commitments. i commend prime minister sanader for his leadership and i also thank commission president barroso for his personal involvement in settling the issue. i visited zagreb in early march and found that croatia’s european vocation was strong enough to settle this problem if it was hampering the accession negotiations. the removal of this obstacle by croatia should allow chapters that have been blocked to be unblocked as of now and negotiations to resume again at normal pace, allowing for substantial progress in the remaining months of the slovenian presidency. i do agree with the rapporteur and with mr lenarčič that croatia has much work ahead. concrete progress is needed in judicial, administrative and economic reforms, in the fight against corruption and on refugee return and minority rights. croatia will also need to continue to make progress on various open bilateral issues with its neighbours. this year could be a decisive one in the accession negotiations, provided that a number of conditions are met by croatia. the commission is ready to present in this autumn’s enlargement package an indicative timetable, or a conditional road map, for the technical conclusion of the accession negotiations in the course of 2009, preferably even during the mandate of the present commission. to achieve this, croatia needs to deliver on all opening benchmarks by june. there is not much time to waste. it will also need to comply with all obligations under the stabilisation and association agreement and ensure urgent and significant improvements in the management of the eu’s financial assistance. the commission is ready to process negotiating positions in the various chapters once benchmarks are met. essentially, the ball is now in croatia’s court. the sooner concrete results are achieved, the sooner croatia will join the european union. i fully agree with mr swoboda that croatia can become a leading benchmark for the western balkan countries showing how they can realise their european perspective. concerning the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, i can by and large share the assessment of the meijer report regarding the reform process. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his cooperation with the commission services on the report. following the granting of candidate status in 2005, there was a slowdown. however, the commission’s rather critical progress report of november 2007 has been followed by corrective actions. important reforms have been adopted since then, especially to strengthen the judiciary, reform the police and improve inter-ethnic relations. i note the recommendation that the commission should develop a set of benchmarks for the opening of accession negotiations this year. i would like to inform you that we have established eight benchmarks, derived from the key priorities of the new accession partnership. a recommendation to start accession negotiations will depend upon the progress which the country has made in meeting these benchmarks. we shall make our assessment in the coming autumn in the enlargement package, which will most likely be presented in early november. evidently, political stability will be essential for success. i met president crvenkovski and prime minister gruevski in skopje some weeks ago, in march. i called upon all political forces in the country to concentrate their energies on the reform agenda in order to take advantage of the opportunities which this year holds for the country. i repeat this call today, as it is no less important now, in the aftermath of the nato summit in bucharest. the name issue has consumed much political energy lately. while i congratulate croatia and albania on their success in euro-atlantic integration with nato membership, i can understand the disappointment felt in bucharest last week by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i encourage the political leadership to continue on the road towards nato and eu integration with full determination. let me conclude by noting that we are discussing developments in the two countries at a very appropriate point in time. both countries are in a position to make this year a very special and even decisive one in terms of getting more and more integrated with the european union. support and encouragement from the european parliament, the council and the commission will be highly important for these countries. therefore, i very much appreciate your invaluable contribution to our european policy of stability and progress in the western balkans.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not we are talking today about the only two candidate countries that are clearly european, namely croatia and macedonia. we hope to be able to conclude the negotiations with croatia this year, but at the latest next year. we hope to be able to start negotiations with macedonia this year, but at the latest next year. we want to prevent both countries from being held hostage to bilateral problems, and i appeal in particular to my greek colleagues to take action here, because the wrong decision in bucharest is already destabilising macedonia. as regards croatia, the sanader government has vigorously promoted reforms and negotiations. i call on the council and the commission to do justice to this in the pace of their work. i call on the commission to strengthen its capacity vigorously and to work quickly on the relevant documents. i call on the council to open all the negotiating chapters as soon as possible. the time of their conclusion will of course depend on the negotiations and the efforts made by croatia. croatia has made tremendous political progress. it has resolved the fisheries issue with great courage, it has agreed to arbitration with slovenia and, above all, it has sent a signal of importance to the whole region by having a serbian deputy prime minister in the sanader government, given what mr swoboda has rightly described, for example, in vukovar. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of minorities are protected. i would therefore say that we should recognise this political achievement of croatia and give it massive support on its way to joining the european union. we are sticking to the ambitious goal of deciding during this period. if that is not possible, then it will be autumn. and, mr swoboda, we would support your proposal if it said 'at the latest' and 'should', but 'could' is only a description of the situation, and that is why we are continuing to press the council and the commission. we know that this is ambitious, but croatia deserves to finally see justice done.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. i am pleased to see that mr swoboda has produced this very good, balanced report, which is a positive sign for croatia and for the region as a whole. however, in all our efforts, we must not forget some problematic areas which still need far-reaching reforms before croatia can join the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for example, clarifying open border issues, fighting corruption, reforming public administration and respecting human rights. cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia is another measure of the country's maturity. political parties, civil society and the media must promote public support more sustainably. the same applies to the integration of national and sexual minorities into social and political life. i very much welcome the decision to appoint a representative of the serbian minority as deputy prime minister. however, much remains to be done in the field of environmental protection to ensure environmentally sustainable development in line with eu objectives. i am glad that the commission has taken this step.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to welcome the macedonian colleagues who are following this debate. olli rehn said that we are encouraging macedonia to continue the reform process. we all say in one voice that we want the negotiations to begin this year. but we still have to identify the horse and rider. the one who has broken the alliance capacity here is greece with its veto against macedonia's nato membership. there is a name dispute, but we cannot ignore that there is a binding statement by greece in 1995 under international law, where they signed that the name dispute will never be an obstacle to macedonia joining the international community of states, the eu or nato. this is a binding international agreement which greece has broken, and if we are calling for reforms here, i would say that greece is breaking european standards, not macedonia. this is a step backwards, a slap in the face to a small country which is really making every effort to join us and start negotiations. that is why i say, mr swoboda, that the trick of postponing the vote tomorrow is another risk of destabilising the government in macedonia because it is feeding the nationalist forces. the real problem is that we have an ally state with greece that strictly refuses to recognize any kind of minority in its own country. this is contrary to the copenhagen criteria and is a disgrace to the european union and to the alliance. i wish macedonia much strength to take the next steps despite greece.
i have to say, madam president, the report by mr swoboda is encouraging and realistic and balanced. i'm very happy for you. it shows the progress that croatia has made, such as the exemplary minority legislation, the good cooperation with the hague tribunal, the greater commitment to fighting corruption and, above all, the agreement between parliament and the government on the fishing zone, which was particularly difficult to achieve. croatia and the eu commission must now mobilise all their forces to negotiate the next chapters satisfactorily and swiftly. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the european union. croatia has a key role in the region and should soon be allowed to join the european union. bilateral issues must not be a hindrance. as far as macedonia is concerned, i can tell you that i was there at a conference last weekend and the mood after the nato rejection is really very upset. people feel they're being treated unfairly. the report by mr meijer shows the difficult path that the country has already successfully followed. there is still much to be done, but if the name issue is always hanging over everything like a sword of damocles, it is difficult to make progress in other policy areas. i have been following the situation there since 1992 and i would like to wish the younger generation in particular that macedonia and greece will finally find a solution to the name dispute. both sides have made concessions in recent weeks and both sides need to take a step closer to each other. i would find it badly compatible with our european values and actually irresponsible that a veto would in turn give the country the opportunity to prevent it from joining the european union. this can't happen!
the commission has already done so. the media in my country today are taking stock of the success of mammography screening in germany. once again, the eu quality assurance guidelines have proved their worth. but there is a demand to offer this to younger women. this shows how important european standards are. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european health insurance system. criteria alone are not enough here. it's the only way we're going to get quality to take precedence over populism, class and market interests in early cancer detection and treatment. i would ask all my colleagues - and you too, commissioner - to convince those member states who still doubt the need for an accreditation procedure and to get them on board.
in writing. commissioner potočnik, it is in the good taste of this house to talk about the role of smes. in fact, smes are the backbone of the eu economy. in germany alone, almost 20 million people work in research and development in the more than 3.3 million small and medium-sized enterprises. it is on them that europe's growth or stagnation depends. smes generate more patents, innovations and jobs than large corporations. and yet smes still have too little access to credit and support programmes. eurostars is a good example of how this can be done. in contrast to fp7, which is based on a 'top-down' approach with central eu funding, eureka and eurostars are 'bottom-up' approaches. the programme is managed by the eureka initiative. this is good and could perhaps also be a model for our fp7. the benefits of the eurostars programme: • research-intensive smes in a leadership role required• qualification testing and evaluation by international experts• harmonised calls for tender and procedures in all member states• fast funding decision: 14 weeks after the 'cut-off date'• the commission awards an additional 'top-up'• funding is provided exclusively in the form of non-repayable grants (cash grant) i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work. i wish the programme every success!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am one of those who have represented the irrelevant amendments in committee. in the light of what mrs laperrouze has said on coal, it is not at all plausible to me that the commission should decide to promote coal ad infinitum. coal has been subsidised at an incredible rate for 50 years, and to continue to do so is contrary to any climate policy statement of the european union. we believe that this coal mining should be replaced by a more consistent promotion of renewable energy and energy efficiency. otherwise, europe will not be able to meet its climate policy objectives. as for the steel, that's on a different page. but the commission has failed to make it clear that steel will continue to be produced and coal will not. i think that coal is already sufficiently taken into account in the seventh framework programme as a dirty energy source.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am happy to be here for the debate on mr bono’s report and i should like to thank him for his contribution and the committee for its work. i am sure, as he said, that culture is important to our lives and it is more and more central to the future of the european union. i would like to add that it defines our community much more than business or geography. we also need to understand that culture makes a contribution; culture creates; culture is something positive, not consuming our budgets or conflicting with our needs but bringing a lot of enrichment, including jobs and growth. this was the first time that the european union was able to explicitly recognise last year’s summit conclusions, in the study we presented some time ago, and now in the cultural agenda for the european union at a time of globalisation. i would like to underline just three specific ideas or items from your report, because there are many and i will not comment on all of them. first, you ask us to establish a european vision of culture, creativity and innovation. the european agenda we have now agreed does exactly that. we are strengthening the cooperation between member states, including the promotion of creative industries. this is one of three pillars. part of that work will need to look at how to measure more accurately the contribution these industries make to the economy and how best to support them. second, you ask us to look at the external dimension. this is one of the three priorities of the agenda and we are very active now in encouraging our partners, our member states, to ratify the unesco convention – because not all member states and also other countries in the world have done so – and also in ensuring its implementation. and we are increasingly including cultural elements both in our development cooperation and in our bilateral relations with emerging economies. third, i agree with you that full attention has to be paid to implementing article 151 fully in eu policies. i have established really good contacts and cooperation with my colleagues, including commissioner mccreevy on the internal market, on the various aspects of copyright protection. i am confident that, with the help of all of you, we will achieve the objectives laid down in this treaty article. you also mention the mobility of artists and cultural workers, which is very high on our agenda, especially this year. member states have already constituted a working group on this topic and the commission is implementing the pilot action on the mobility of artists proposed by this parliament last year. the commission will support all these efforts, in particular with a study to better understand the links between culture, creativity and innovation, as well as another study on how to have an environment conducive to the development of creative and cultural industries, including support for small and medium-sized enterprises and risk-taking. the results of these initiatives will feed into a green paper on cultural and creative industries, which the commission plans to publish in 2009. i am looking forward to the debate.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. in the cultural sector in europe, new technologies are gaining in importance. the protection of intellectual property must therefore be given special attention. the european union, but also the member states, should have the task of providing the necessary means to ensure that intellectual property rights are respected and protected. the fight against piracy is of particular importance. all parties should be aware of their rights and obligations in jointly solving this problem. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has made a number of recommendations in its report on information and awareness campaigns, particularly with regard to consumers. the value of intellectual property should be the focus of preparatory and educational measures already in the school system. in this context, i would like to reiterate the committee's view that criminalising consumers who do not seek profit is not the right solution to combat digital piracy. we have repeatedly stressed that free information structures such as the world wide web are of great importance to the european creative sector and that we need to strike a balance between the openness of the internet and the protection of intellectual property. in this connection, mr president, allow me to make a final comment on amendment no 22a tabled by 40 members, as amended. my group - the epp group - has clearly stated its willingness to support the first part of the amendment, but to reject the second part of the amendment.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the bono report breaks down the rigid debate between the idea of culture as an end in itself and the total economicisation of culture. we emphasise the importance of the creative industries as part of the lisbon strategy for economic growth, without at the same time subjecting cultural policy to purely economic constraints. the creative industries and the cultural economy are understood as separate economic sectors and the cultural and creative industries have become a job-generating force in europe in recent years. in germany, for example, they create more jobs than the car industry, and the european union and the member states must orient their policies accordingly. there's a lot to do. i would also like to emphasize once again that in all the complicated disputes about copyright: the appropriate policy rules for intellectual property products in the digital world still need to be found, which ensure free access to the internet for private end-users and at the same time create new revenue opportunities for artists who produce the creative content.
i have to say, madam president, i just want to avoid any misunderstandings. this report is not about preventing anyone from accessing the internet in any way. the cultural committee voted unanimously against it. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of intellectual property rights, in particular the right to freedom of expression and freedom of expression. i would therefore ask that this approach be followed in the votes.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr graça moura, on behalf of my group, the epp group, for the excellent report he has produced. i would also like to thank the commission for presenting this communication on the cultural agenda. it has parliament's support for culture as a cross-cutting task, for strengthening the mobility of artists, for strengthening regional cooperation and strengthening international cooperation. but we're also missing something in this agenda. this is the subject we have been discussing at length. the cultural economy and the increasing importance of the cultural economy also means that the economic aspects are becoming much stronger than in the past. the cultural agenda is not only about better cooperation and more financial resources, but also about the legal framework. the fact is that even within the european union, when culture is in competition with internal market or competition law, it is the one that takes the shortcut in case of doubt. you all remember the lévai report: online music companies have been identified by the internal market commissioner as barriers to competition in the internal market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. that is why it is urgently needed, and parliament will decide tomorrow as will the committee on culture. the unesco convention must be applied not only through third countries to safeguard cultural diversity but also, and most urgently, in european law itself. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the interesting thing about this paper on the european cultural agenda in the context of globalisation is that it really makes a strategic claim to not only the field of cultural policy as a sector, but that culture should be an integral part of various european policies, such as foreign policy, urban development policy and structural funds policy. that's a new quality, really. it is changing the european union's self-concept of the importance of culture and its strategic importance for the whole of politics. culture always has a double character, and that's what's particularly interesting. it is always a commodity, but it is more than a commodity because it is a carrier of meaning and purpose. i would like to make it quite clear again tonight that i expect this dual nature of culture to be reflected in all policy areas, particularly in the logic of the internal market. and commissioner figeľ will be very strong if he succeeds in making this strategic importance of culture known to the other commissioners.
the next item is the report by mrs elspeth attwooll on rights-based management instruments in fisheries (a6-0060/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday.
- the next item is the report by mr janusz lewandowski on the guidelines for the 2009 budgetary procedure - separate plans i and ii and iv to ix (a6-0082/2008).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to take this opportunity to promote the epp amendment on secretarial allowances. i know that the greens and the socialists have tabled another amendment, which is our own, and which is in line with the decisions of the bureau and the conference of presidents, in which all the group chairmen voted unanimously. the fact that the committee on budgets is now supposedly living up to its reputation of having its own show again does not seem to me to be justified. the amendment by the green group contains the word 'assistant statute'. that will be the result when the bureau's amendment, that is to say the outcome of the negotiations with the council, is presented. we are also seeking this status of assistant, but we do not yet know whether we will get it, whether we can actually reach an agreement with the council. i would ask that this word not be used to reject the whole text of the bureau. i think it is very important that we should act as unitedly as possible in this house and not unnecessarily quarrel over details which are not in our hands to achieve. i therefore ask you to accept our amendment. no word has been added, no word has been omitted.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 10 april 2008. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the commission is also proposing that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products (ema) and on the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products (ema).
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission thanks parliament, and, in particular, the rapporteur, for his constructive approach. the commission is entirely committed to providing for full transparency vis-à-vis the budgetary authority as requested today by parliament and in line with the joint statements of the european parliament and the council of july 2007. in particular, as regards the decentralised agencies, the commission will insert in the regulation accrued information requirements concerning the number of contract staff, operating surpluses, assigned revenue, transfers and waivers to recoveries. more transparency of information on the work of the agencies, and not only in financial and budgetary matters, is also a concern recently expressed by the commission in a communication to parliament and the council. at this point, let me recall the commission’s proposal to set up an interinstitutional group to engage in a political discussion on the role and place of agencies in european governance, both with the parliament and with the council. the commission is indeed convinced that, if we have a consistent approach to agencies, we – all three institutions – can promote the transparency and effectiveness of an important part of the european union’s architecture. this is why i would like to conclude by expressing the wish that the interinstitutional working group proposed by the commission starts its work soon.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank you for the opportunity to speak at this late hour and i thank you all for your understanding. i asked to speak here. i am speaking only for you, commissioner, because it is important for me to tell the commission that these amendments which we have tabled and on which we will vote tomorrow by a very large majority are important to us. i would like to say that we are only in the hearing on this dossier and i would like to assure you on behalf of the whole parliament that our amendments will help to bring more order into the system of agencies. that is why it is very important for us, across the political groups, that the commission takes them on board. i thank you for your assurance and will check it. it's very important to me that you understand why we want this. we need better accountability of agencies and more transparency, especially of staff. this is a matter of direct concern to our budgetary law. if those wishes are not taken on board, then you know, of course, that we will find our way to enforce them. we consider this to be our budgetary right and essential. the commission had originally planned only technical changes in the present reform of the financial regulation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the agencies. the commission's draft came a little earlier, but it would have been nice if the commission had done more work. i would have thought that was fairer than letting us do the work. the european parliament has introduced political changes with great unanimity across all the political groups. we want to bring the internal procedures, responsibilities, transfer of funds and accountability of the agencies with a declaration of assurance more in line with the procedures and the habit of the directorate-general in the commission. we also want a better picture of the human and financial costs to the agencies. we want all employees to be notified, not just those on the roster. this is an absolute necessity. i would like to give an example from a recent report by a decentralised agency on financial management in 2007. the staff list contains 39 posts, whereas the text, two pages earlier, lists 43 temporary staff and 11 contract staff; so no number matches the other. it is left to the reader's imagination whether we have 39 plus 11 posts or 43 plus 11 plus 39 or whether the 39 posts are carried out by 43 employees and then the 11 are added. so we don't know. i will clarify the question, but it is of course no fun to clarify this question for the large number of agencies, and the reporting, the reporting is more or less the same chaotic in all agencies. the agency i have just quoted, enisa, is completely interchangeable, and i would like to ask why the information we receive is so contradictory. we also want more information on the revenue of the agencies, which can be considerable if we think of alicante, and we want to know what happens to that revenue. i thank you for taking these amendments on board as you have just announced. we currently have 29 decentralised agencies with 3 914 staff on the 2007 establishment plan. a budget of €1.1 billion, of which €559 million comes from the eu. the five executive agencies have 176 posts. the last commission communication on agencies was a very interesting one. the proposal for a joint working group is a very important one. the three institutions must commit themselves to thinking together about the future of the agencies and their field of work. in germany, the question of agencies and agency growth is in the public's focus. she always gets a big press. the reputation of the european union is also at stake if we fail to communicate to the outside world what we really need these agencies for and what role they play in the european union. we would also be glad if the commission could demonstrate to the executive agencies why programme management through them is more efficient and less costly than through directorates-general. this is a wish which we have repeatedly expressed in the budget and which has not yet been substantiated by any figures or by corresponding written figures and facts. the amendments tabled by parliament are designed to keep track of the european agency world, and our urgent request to the commission is to help bring order to the agency landscape. i should like to point out that parliament has confidence in the commission on this matter. we know that you are our last resort, so to speak, to bring order and transparency and a better picture. i would like to thank my colleagues from the other groups, in particular the rapporteur for the agency, jutta haug, from the committee on budgets, and the two rapporteurs, jan mulder and edit herczog, from the committee on budgetary control, for their suggestions, which we all took up, so that i believe we have put forward the most urgent amendments and proposals of parliament at the moment. i would ask you to include these amendments in the draft.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not as the previous speaker has shown, we in the european parliament are far from being unanimous on the issue of global warming. i also don't think we're going to be able to reconcile the two camps anytime soon, those who believe global warming is a big problem and those who keep on reporting fundamental doubts that the problem exists in this form. but i'm convinced there's an argument that should hold true for you, too. the great challenge of climate change and the great challenge of ensuring a good, sustainable and affordable energy supply in europe and other parts of the world can be tackled with the same tools. so i think that everything that has been discussed in europe so far as a response to climate change would make sense, even for the skeptics: limited resources or the difficult availability of energy resources, often stored in crisis regions of the world, where you have ideas about renewable energy, about energy efficiency or about energy saving, good tools to move forward in both areas. perhaps there is a chance of understanding. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take them up in the future. for me, that's a question: why is it so easy to agree on the tools to adapt, and why is it so difficult to agree on the tools to actually combat global warming? the fact is that i am not really convinced that the adjustment measures will help us in europe very much. because i think that the adaptation measures are partly hiding the fact that the wrong policies and the wrong development and industrial strategies are going to continue to exacerbate the problems that we have because of global warming. so a completely misguided settlement policy, a misguided agricultural policy, a misguided management of water resources, a poor protection of ecosystems. all of this is exacerbating our problems as we fight for adjustment. i believe that these adaptation measures, in relation to the instruments we give ourselves to combat climate change, always have to be questioned a little bit. i would like to emphasize one more point in my speech, namely the amendments we have tabled to today's report by mr sacconi. we have been very concerned in our amendments with the protection of the soil. i would like to see support for this because i believe that there is a fundamental problem which has not yet been sufficiently addressed at european level.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. climate change is coming, that's a scientific fact. the ipcc's fourth assessment report shows that no region of europe will be spared. the important thing is that we can keep global warming below two degrees celsius. but even a rise in global warming of less than two degrees celsius would have negative economic and environmental consequences for some regions in europe. that is why europe must act now. we must now take adjustment measures. this must be done in many policy areas. but climate change will also present an opportunity. an opportunity because we can adapt to climate change. we should also adapt the lisbon process to climate change in the context of adaptation measures. this is an opportunity for an ecological industrial policy. an economic and industrial policy that decouples growth from co2, greenhouse gas emissions. that will be the key to success. i would like to ask the commissioner: to what extent is the lisbon process linked to climate change being discussed in the commission? secondly, it will be important to inform local and regional decision-makers on the ground about the respective consequences in their regions. what will be the impact of climate change in each region? for example, in the area of building management planning, this will be very important, and that is why i also support the proposal in the resolution that a european database be set up where regional decision-makers can see: how do we have to organise our building management planning?
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
mr swoboda, we would have come to this point if it had been our turn. the procedure is as follows: if the meijer report is called in the order in which it was presented, we shall be called. but we thank you, and you will have another opportunity to speak. we didn't miss that.
the european parliament has voted almost unanimously on an important issue and i hope that those to whom this vote is addressed will understand this message.
mr president, if this oral amendment were accepted, my group would vote for the swoboda motion instead of against it.
but you will not know whether it has been adopted or not until after the vote. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to speak in favour of mr swoboda's motion, even if mr cohn-bendit cannot imagine that, because it may not fit into his form of political work. there is also the possibility of reaching a compromise in a few days if you take the time to look for the compromise. and that is precisely the aim of mr swoboda's request. we can very well vote next week in the plenary, but in the meantime, because we are on the right track here in the house, we may find a compromise for our resolution. we should take that time, even if mr cohn-bendit feels pressured.
i am not going to go into detail. i am very pleased to inform you that a delegation from the australian house of representatives and senate has taken their seats in the visitors' gallery. you're very welcome. (applause from the centre) they will be taking part in the 31st interparliamentary meeting, which will take place here in the european parliament on 9 and 10 april. the delegation shall consist of members of the senate and the house of representatives. senator alan ferguson, president of the australian senate, is here. the european parliament and the australian parliament began their direct and wide-ranging political dialogue in 1981. we look forward to further strengthening and expanding this cooperation. i wish the delegation every success in their stay and a safe return home. (applause from the centre)
did everyone understand that? neither did i! what are we going to do? did the greens want to do something? you don't want to, for once! i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on this matter.
i'm just being told that's not the case. we shall then vote on amendment no 14? i am told by paul dunstan, who is really an excellent connoisseur of all subtleties, that this is not the way to go. he recommends that we just vote that way now. before the vote on amendment no 15
you are a great singer, as i have had the opportunity to witness many times, mrs pleštinská.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 12.20 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 10 april 2008.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 17 april 2008 in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday, tuesday, wednesday: no change in the number of days. thursday:the uen group has requested that the sub-item on human rights violations be replaced by a new sub-item on georgia.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
thank you very much, madam president. we all express our heartfelt sympathy to the families of the victims.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. china carries out more than a third of all executions worldwide, according to amnesty international's annual report. the exact number is probably much higher and therefore a state secret. 62 countries use the death penalty, some for non-violent crimes such as adultery, tax evasion, prostitution or homosexuality. iran, saudi arabia and yemen also execute young people under the age of 18. the european union must therefore do all it can to promote the basic human right to life and a worldwide moratorium on the death penalty. china, as the leader of this sad statistic, should be addressed, so that it can be brought closer to universal human rights, as in the olympic motto "one world, one dream".
thank you, thank you. it was an impressive event. if you have any media coverage, i'd be interested. so, we're through with the list. all who had written or raised their hands were received.
i understand you may have come forward. normally, oral submissions are made in writing, so we have them on the list. you're not on my list. but you're the last one to speak now. next time, please register in writing. then you won't be overlooked, if there's time.
that concludes this item.
the next item is the report by jutta haug, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the 2009 budget - sub-programme iii - commission: budgetary framework and priorities for 2009 (2008/2024 (bud)) (a6-0084/2008).
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the budgetary procedure this year is special, because it is the last one to be held under the rules which have been in force until now. from next year we will draw up our budget according to the procedure described in the lisbon treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we will no longer have the opportunity to correct our errors in a second reading, to amend compromises that have been reached, to correct mistakes. the first, the only reading must be valid, it must be a viable basis for negotiations with the council until the end of the year. it is important for us to stress that we expect to make preparations with the council and the commission in parallel with the 2009 budgetary procedure in order to be able to start the budgetary procedure under the lisbon treaty. the budgetary procedure we have now is somewhat different. the committee on budgets, at the instigation of the reform working group decided to no longer bring our usual guidelines in response to the commission's annual strategic planning as the first resolution to the plenary, but to bring our proposal on the budgetary framework and priorities for 2009. the resolution on the jcp is the responsibility of the political groups. it covers all policy areas. we in the committee on budgets have concentrated on the overall budgetary concerns which are of particular importance to us and have put them into 11 paragraphs. i would like to draw attention to three aspects. first, we see that our budget suit is very tightly tailored, so to speak, to fit. the margins in each category are very small. new policy priorities that urgently need budgetary support, such as the implementation of our concrete role in climate policy, cannot be funded without jeopardising old priorities. the same applies to financing growth and jobs or to a sustainable europe. if we look at category 1a, for example, we know that we cannot finance new agencies with the funds we have. we must stick to our old, but simple and very clear principle: new tasks, new money. secondly, we see that category 4 is chronically underfunded. year after year, we have the same picture there. we expect the commission to present us with a preliminary draft budget which has analysed needs in detail and is realistic. we want to use the flexibility instrument for what it was designed to do, namely for the unforeseen. we do not want to have partially or completely gone to breakfast by the end of the year. thirdly, we are determined to inform the commission of our intentions regarding pilot projects and preparatory measures before parliament's summer break. we expect the commission to leave us in the preliminary draft budget sufficient room for manoeuvre for this parliamentary instrument, in all categories. we have noted that in the tables attached to the annual strategic plan, it has not included pilot projects and preparatory actions in the 2009 programming. in conclusion, we are determined not to blow up the financial framework, but we see very clearly the restrictions and problems and we hope therefore for good cooperation with the council and the commission.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by expressly supporting the rapporteur's remarks and to join this with an appeal to the specialist committees of the house to focus, in the hopefully timely discussions on pilot projects and preparatory measures, on projects of european added value. secondly, i would like to add on behalf of the commission and the council that we are waiting for an answer in the course of the debate on how we can finally put the foreign and security policy, which has suffered from chronic underfinancing for several years, on solid footing so that this annual struggle in this area can come to an end, which is not good for anyone and is also bad for the commission and the council. commissioner, you said that you would react to the results of bali and to a new asian strategy in the preliminary draft budget. but i ask you: when will the commission then present proposals on the budgetary consequences of the reform treaty, and that is for the period up to 2013? or are we waiting for the next financial planning period, so to speak? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we haven't heard anything about that. i would add that this budgetary procedure also includes setting up the framework for the implementation of the new treaty after ratification, and therefore, with caution and due diligence, taking account of the adaptation of the agreements both in terms of the ratification process and the legal situation, which is very important. there are three elements here: where are pre-agreements necessary in the sense of the necessary transition between the old and the new treaties? where do we need transitional arrangements in the sense of legal certainty? and where do we need a little more time to get subsequent agreements in place, including the necessary legislative procedures? i am very clear here - and i am also very clear to the next french presidency - that what will be possible in terms of agreements on these three elements depends on the results, and we must also retain a certain degree of flexibility so that we do not have to put everything into concrete from the outset and then start again with the air hammer.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to comment on two of the priorities, namely the criticism by our rapporteur of the lack of transparency in the eu budget and in the commission's staff policy. as rapporteur on the budgetary regulation, i ask the commission to take up this point, the transparency of the budget, and to make proposals for the next planned reform of the budgetary regulation. the information contained in the budget itself is absolutely inadequate and for us these collections of figures are actually worthless. the commission has so far produced numerous accompanying documents, thus devaluing the plan itself. why not write more information into the book itself, and then some of the required reporting is superfluous, and you and we would be happy to do so. i shall be working on this site for the next reform of the financial regulation and i am asking my colleagues to help me with the preliminary work because i would like to have some studies done on this. my second point: in the resolution on the 2007 budget of december, parliament called for a progress report on staff screening by 30 april 2008. i expect we'll have that update in a few days. this screening, which parliament has called for, is now one of the great successes of the barroso commission. the president of the commission is a reformer, and he can only be a reformer if he draws conclusions from the screening with this commission. this means that we must take a critical look at decentralization and take the first steps towards it. it is not only the taxpayer and parliament that he owes this to, but also his staff, who are currently wasting their time and skills in too much internal administration and bureaucracy. the commission owes this to itself, because, given the challenges facing the eu and the important management tasks it is undertaking, we believe that it can only do this - even in the context of the 2009 budget, which does not provide for any new posts - if it also takes the necessary steps and implements them within the administration.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like once again to thank ms haug for the report and also all the speakers for their comments: not only those related directly to the 2009 budget, but also those comments that went beyond 2009, which are very useful in the context of our reflection on the policy agenda and on the future reform of the budget. concerning the baltic sea strategy, i would like to react to two very concrete points which were raised. firstly, on the baltic sea strategy: the commission is working on this strategy, and i have the pleasure of chairing the inter-service work on this strategy. it is envisaged that it will be on the agenda of the swedish presidency, which means the second half of 2009. however, we are at the stage of consulting and taking stock of the situation in the region and also considering ideas for this strategy. with regard to any budget consequences, it is far too early to talk about this today. concerning the new treaty and the consequences for the policy agenda, one issue is the consequences of the lisbon treaty for the institutional change and the new legal frameworks. the other thing is the policy agenda and, as you know, both the council and the commission are currently involved in the reflection and very concrete work, mostly on the legal frameworks and new institutional challenges. however, reflection on the policy agenda is also taking place, as you know, as a result of the requirement to have the budget review. i believe that towards the end of this year – or very early in 2009 – the commission will come forward with the new policy agenda, and only then can the budgetary consequences be considered and taken care of in a reasonable way and with reasonable responsibility. concerning transparency, i have taken note of all your points on screening results and shall forward them, especially to commissioner grybauskaitė, but i think to the entire college, and i would like to confirm what you have just said. with regard to 2009, my understanding is that we are now aware of the guidelines which were expressed by both arms of the budgetary authority. the preliminary draft budget will be based on sound estimates of the need to achieve all those priorities that have been already agreed and which are ahead of us. there is no doubt that the commission will need good ongoing cooperation with you to attain these results. i would also like to say that good cooperation will also be essential in the context of long-term challenges, both the institutional and the policy agenda ones. thank you very much for the debate.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate and made speeches. but of course i also want to thank you for the good wishes and the praise you have given me. thank you, too, to the commissioner. i think that the commission is going to support the whole thing and is also going to promise a preliminary draft budget which takes account of all the things we want to have taken into account. we have once again made clear our priorities. it is not a few, and it is not small: tackling climate change, creating growth and jobs, a social europe, research, education, training, helping the world's poorest countries, fulfilling our responsibilities in the world. it is not an easy task to finance all this. i wish the council had listened, because then it would have seen that parliament is - i say, thank god! - united across all the groups, or at least almost all the groups. thank you all very much.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner hübner has just said that the commission and the council are already working on the implementation of the lisbon treaty. that's wonderful! but i would like to insist, in my capacity as chairman of the committee on budgets, and i think on behalf of all my colleagues, that parliament should be treated equally here - also with regard to the transmission of documents and non-papers on all that needs to be discussed and negotiated together in the coming months - and not treated secondarily. if this is not guaranteed, we will have great problems at the end of the procedure, at the end of the year. it is in the interest of the commission and the council to achieve complete equality of treatment in this area, including in information policy, documents and deliberations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we social democrats have been persecuted by all the totalitarian and authoritarian regimes of twentieth century europe, whether by the nazis, the henchmen of stalin, franco, mussolini. you can count them all. that is why we not only have no problem with it, but we welcome the elaboration of the crimes of stalinism. we must applaud that! but this review should be carried out according to the rules of the methodology of historical research and not be confused with the procedural rules of a criminal court procedure. we have to be careful not to confuse these things. it is not a matter of counting the victims, it is not a matter of a second edition of the nuremberg trials, but this time it is an ideology rather than identified criminals. but there are also points where you have to say no very clearly. we social democrats have identified a number of areas where we say no. we say no to the attempt to establish a new framework for interpreting european history, as we have distilled it from the speeches of some members of this house at a conference held on 22 january this year. we strongly reject the idea that the significance of the extermination of the european jews by the nazis is the result of a conception of history 'developed by the soviet regime'. we reject that! we reject it all the more because we were able to ascertain back in 2006 that another colleague, who comes from the same ideological spectrum, sent a circular to all colleagues in this house, in which he referred to the two latvian waffen-ss divisions as - and i quote - also part of the german armed forces, and thereby trivialized them. we reject this interpretation too, particularly in the context of the first sentence. we also reject the claim that the west has literally done nothing to bring about change in the then soviet-dominated part of europe. the csce in helsinki was the first to give the civil rights movements in these countries the breathing space that led to the successful and gratifying result that we are seeing today, where we can welcome representatives from these countries to our house. these are the points on which we insist and which we will continue to pursue.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, after the political agreement reached in the council on 13 june 2007 on the first part of the legislative package to transpose the prüm treaty into european law, germany has submitted the initiative which we are about to discuss, namely the implementation of the decision which is the subject of the first part and its annex. the commission, madam president, has always supported the transposition of the prüm treaty within the union. this is an important instrument which will significantly strengthen police cooperation between member states, enabling them to act more effectively in the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime, for example by facilitating the exchange of dna profiles and fingerprint data of wanted persons. the abolition of checks on persons at the internal borders of the union, between the schengen countries, is a major step forward in european integration. but we have a duty to ensure that the area of free movement is also an area of security and justice, of course. strengthening police cooperation between member states' authorities, in full respect of fundamental rights, including data protection, is an essential measure to ensure increased security within the european union in the interests of our citizens. the draft decision we are discussing today is the necessary follow-up to allow full technical and operational implementation of the decision on which the council reached political agreement in june 2007. the aim of this agreement is to transpose the fundamental elements of the prüm treaty into the legal framework of the european union. the commission has always supported the need to involve parliament also in the procedure for amending the annex to this instrument. for the commission, the provisions on data protection in the june 2007 decision, as well as in the draft currently under discussion, will be supplemented by the provisions of the framework decision on data protection in the third pillar. of course, you have pointed out that there is a need for a complement. the commission, for its part, generally welcomes the amendments you propose, madam president. but as this is an initiative of the member states, the commission, mr president, will present its detailed position on the amendments in the context of the council's discussions. i could answer that by thanking your rapporteur again for having been so kind as to point out the means and conditions for the proper implementation of this decision.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. there are few issues on which european citizens are broadly agreed that europe is making a serious effort. what we are discussing here today is such an important issue: to ensure that the fight against international crime and terrorism is successful through cooperation between member states. i am very grateful that we in the committee, thanks to the preparatory work and the very fair cooperation with the rapporteur, have been able to reach a consensus which means that we are not in agreement on every single point but on the broad lines and that we want to make a contribution to progress here. this process of the prüm treaty was a very arduous one; it took a long time. we've only gotten so far, little by little. but it is good that there are now agreements in the european area on the exchange of data, that national databases are being networked, that such national databases can be accessed for the purpose of prosecuting, preventing and preventing crime. i wish that at some point in this whole project, you would have moved on. so i want to take this opportunity not only to talk about what we have achieved so far, but also to say: of course, there are some points in this resolution which may apply tomorrow and the day after. for example, we want to make the deployment of joint police forces even more efficient and faster, so that police forces from one member state with certain competences can also operate in another member state. mrs dührkop dührkop has just pointed out that this is not quite easy. but it is important to push this process forward, to ensure that more european responsibility is given, that more joint action is taken. it can be a very attractive argument for the european idea in the end if we can give people proof that we are in the process of solving important issues in a positive way, in their interests.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i also believe that i can speak for my group when i say that the cooperation with the honourable member has been excellent. that worked very well, as mr reul has already said. nevertheless, the question arises as to why it is so urgent, why it is imperative that it be decided now and above all before the end of the year. we would like very much to see the rules of the lisbon treaty applying to this, such as judicial review, including proper participation in the sense of a co-decision by parliament. as regards the data protection aspect mentioned here, prüm has its own data protection rules, implementation and contract. the commission has also taken the view that the commission should be able to take action in the field of the environment. if we look more closely at the categories of data covered by the prüm treaty, we also need more than ever to have a framework legislation on this. the question arises, among other things, why so-called special categories of data have been included, such as data on sexual orientation, health, political and trade union activity, religious affiliation. this goes far beyond the data bases needed in the field of organised crime. it's limited in its use, but it's still incredible that you can use it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data are not used for other purposes. it should also be clear that member states are not obliged to set up national dna databases if they do not have them. i would like to conclude by saying that it would make sense - and the face-to-face exchange with police authorities has shown this - if, instead of focusing on legislative measures, we could fund support programmes that enable face-to-face exchanges between police forces. this would certainly also make it possible to improve cooperation within the union. it is surprising that the financing is not yet clear, when it is now being decided shortly. before you spend money, you should know how much, before you decide something, you should know how much it will cost.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the commission is not prepared to accept this. the official eu policy towards belarus is called 'differentiated policy': on the one hand criticism of the dictator lukashenko and on the other hand encouragement and facilitation of dialogue with the population. however, a visa fee of 60 euros, which is one third of a belarusian citizen's monthly salary, is diametrically opposed to this. from the point of view of the population, such an eu policy is an eu policy of empty words! the consequence is that schengen policy is completely overblown and at this point it undermines the credibility of eu foreign policy. we can't let that happen. the construction of democracy - and we want it for belarus - is only possible if we make it easier for the people there to experience democracy in our countries. everything else would work in the hands of lukashenko. that is why we need a change and the council has said in its reply that the commission has not taken action on this and that is why there is no change yet. so, get on with it! present to the council a proposal to make visa facilitation possible for the promotion of democracy in belarus.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and mr rapporteur! we know that we have a greater demand for organs than there are supplies. but at the same time we know that it is only by ensuring non-commercialization that the supply will actually grow. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. organ trafficking is not taken seriously in the european union. i am glad, commissioner, that you have said that organ trafficking is finally being included in the report on human trafficking. but what happens when a european citizen from a third country - say the philippines or other countries - comes with an organ? then don't ask any doctor or hospital where this organ came from. he or she does not have to prove that this organ was not obtained from the organ trade. so we need traceability to really rule out organ trafficking. this is the great responsibility of the european union, because we cannot allow people in china, in ukraine and in other countries to be afraid of the organ mafia. it's tragic when people are forced to sell their organs out of want and misery. it is just as tragic, of course, when people have to die because there are not enough organs available. but we have to look at both sides of the coin.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to thank mrs harkin for her balanced and comprehensive report. it is the result of a joint effort to give greater recognition at european level to the aims, content and social contribution of voluntary work. there are already numerous initiatives in the member states which make an important economic, social and integration contribution. the european dimension needed for networking is often still lacking. so far we have heard of the european voluntary service for young people. we need comparable programmes for all age groups, especially for the growing number of active, fit and experienced older people. they could also make a significant contribution to the deepening of the european community, also by using the instruments of regional and cohesion policy. we need a suitable framework and as clear definitions as possible so that all civil society partners can develop in the long term. the first steps have been taken by both the commission and the council. i hope that both institutions will take up the proposals and suggestions of parliament so that the jointly proposed year of volunteering in 2011 will be a great success.
the next item is the report by mr jean-pierre audy, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the annual report 2006 of the european investment bank (2007/2251 (ini)) (a6-0079/2008).
president of the european investment bank. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i should like to thank you for giving me this opportunity once again to continue the dialogue with the european parliament. i think it is important that an institution like the eib should be called upon to explain itself regularly to the representatives of the european citizens. i would like to thank mr audy in particular for his report. i can testify that he put a great deal of personal effort into the drafting of this report. he has participated in many working meetings both in brussels and in luxembourg, thus following the line of the constructive dialogue we have started with his predecessors. he stressed two points in his presentation this morning. the first question, which has already been raised in previous reports - i remember mr schmidt's report, mr lipietz's report - is whether the european investment bank, because it is a bank, should be subject to supervision, to banking supervision. this is not provided for in the current state of the texts. there are, of course, controls over the european investment bank: the control of the court of auditors, in so far as the eib uses community funds, and also the control of the audit committee, which is made up of experts appointed by the governors and reporting directly to our governors. but it is true that if we want to apply best banking practice to the eib, it would probably be desirable for a specialised body to be able to verify that these practices are indeed correctly applied at the eib. theoretically, there are three possible outcomes. the first is that which is enshrined in the maastricht treaty, in article 105 (6). this would be the opportunity for the european central bank to exercise this supervisory role. the treaty provides that the council, acting unanimously, may entrust the european central bank with a task of prudential supervision. this is a theoretical possibility, but realism makes it doubtful that unanimity can be found, at least today, among the member states to entrust this new task to the european central bank. another possibility is that which we have engaged in informally, namely the use of a national regulator. at the moment, it is the luxembourg regulator, the luxembourg financial sector supervisory board, which also exercises this task with the european investment bank, in particular to verify the correct application of basel ii. a third possibility that could be explored would be to strengthen the audit committee, as provided for in our statutes, and to transform it into a quasi-banking supervisor. the amending treaty provides for an extension of this audit committee. a first step could be to appoint a number of bank supervisors, who would bring to the audit committee the experience needed to verify that the eib is indeed applying best practice in this area. the second point mr audy stressed was the special role he would like the european investment bank to play in the field of infrastructure and, more specifically, transeuropean networks. as you know, the eib already plays a relatively important role in this area. last year we financed transeuropean networks for almost nine billion euros. we use a number of instruments, including our structured finance facility which allows us to take more risks than is the norm. we did this recently, for example, on a motorway in greece. this is a good concrete example of the use of this special facility to encourage the private sector to take more risks in operating a motorway. and then, very recently, with the european commission, we have developed a new guarantee mechanism to cover a particular type of risk, the risk of insufficient traffic during the first years of operation of an infrastructure. experience has shown that the first four or five years are often the most difficult. these are years in which income is not necessarily at the expected level. this creates problems for the private operator and so, in order to encourage the private sector to finance this infrastructure, we have developed a new guarantee mechanism together with the commission. i would add that the european investment bank has taken the initiative of launching a european centre of expertise in the field of public-private partnerships in order to share our experience in this field with national representatives. this is certainly an area in which the eib is prepared to continue its work. mr staes asked a question about the anti-fraud policy. we have just published our anti-fraud policy after a consultation procedure which has required several successive rounds. in relation to the particular issue he raised, of a debarment system, a system which would therefore prohibit companies guilty of fraud or corruption from further participating in projects which we finance, we announce in this policy that we hope to be able to use the same system as the one which the commission is striving to put in place. if it was not - and we should have that clear by the end of the year - if for legal reasons we could not use the same system, then we would set up our own system of discharge. as regards our energy financing, we have revised our policy on financing energy projects in the light of the european guidelines on combating climate change. in this context, we have decided to give priority to investments that reduce co2 emissions, and this is already reflected in the figures for 2007, since the financing of projects for the production of electricity from fossil fuels now represents only 25% of our financing in the energy sector. in 2007, for example, the amount spent on renewable energy far exceeded the amount spent on these more conventional forms of energy production. finally, as regards the millennium development goals, we are of course trying to ensure that our projects contribute to the millennium development goals as much as possible. but i would draw your attention to the fact that when we act outside the european union, we act on the basis of specific mandates given to us by the european council. and the millennium development goals are not listed as such in the mandates we have received from the european council. which is why we may not be able to make a direct connection as you would have wished. finally, to mr dillen, who, as i understand it, has mentioned a project which we have financed in the democratic republic of congo, i would like to say that for several years we have not financed anything in the democratic republic of congo. our board of directors has approved the principle of funding a mining project in katanga but nothing has been disbursed for that project yet. the loan agreement hasn't been signed yet. why would you do that? because the new congolese government has rightly wanted to renegotiate the terms of the licence, so that the revenues would go to the congolese state more, and we have suspended the signing of the contract until a satisfactory agreement has been reached between the developer and the congolese government. that, mr president, is a few of the things i could say in reply to those who have spoken, and i would like to thank parliament again, and in particular the committee on budgetary control, for the excellent cooperation we have had. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank mr maystadt very much. we are grateful to you for your presence this morning, for your report, but especially for the work you are doing for the european union as president of the european investment bank. once again, thank you very much and best wishes!
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. mr president, mr maystadt, mr audy, the rapporteur, and ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his good and balanced work. i congratulate the eib on its successful activities and its ambitious business plan. in the field of energy and innovation, the eib helps the eu to implement its policies. without the eib, we would not have been able to put cip on such a good path. the eib's strategy for 2007-2009 includes strengthening added value, gradually increasing risk-taking, using new financial instruments and intensifying cooperation with the commission. i certainly welcome this strategy. the evaluation of the activities by the eib's rapporteur and the proposals for further steps are correct. but we must not forget that parliament's role is limited. the eib is a community institution, but power is exercised internally according to intergovernmental rules, which means that the member states are the controlling shareholders. since 1999, the european parliament has regularly commented on the eib's activity reports. this resulted in a close, trusting and good cooperation. i would particularly like to commend the cooperation with president maystadt. this cooperation is exemplary for relations with other institutions.
the following is the joint statement by the following persons on behalf of the european union (chairman of the committee on budgetary control) on behalf of the european union (chairman of the committee on budgetary control) on behalf of the european union (chairman of the committee on budgetary control) on behalf of the european union (chairman of the committee on budgetary control) on behalf of the european union (chairman of the committee on budgetary control) on behalf of the european union (chairman of the committee on budgetary control) on behalf of the european union (chairman of the committee on budgetary control) on behalf of the european union (chairman of the committee on budgetary control) on behalf of the european union (chairman of the committee on budgetary control) on behalf of the european union (chairman of the committee on budgetary control) on behalf of the european union (chairman of the committee on budgetary control) on behalf of the european union (chairman of the committee on budgetary control) on behalf of the european union (chairman of the committee on budgetary control) on behalf of the european union (chairman of the european parliament) european union (chairman of the european commission on behalf of the european union (chairman of the committee on budgetary control) european union (chairman of the european union (chairman of the committee on budgetary control) committee on the european union (chairman of the european union) european union (chairman of the committee on budgetary control 2007-06-06-06-06-06-06-07-08-08-08-08-09
that's the second time you've said that. i'll reserve the right to take action against you.
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i should like to begin by thanking mr dan jørgensen and mr alexander stubb for their unanimous support for the committee on development's intentions. we are very grateful for this, because we have worked very hard on this issue in the committee on development. the european union - the budgets of the european union itself and the budgets of the member states combined - is by far the largest donor of development aid in the world. and yet, we still find that in the current situation, there is still far too little, that we actually need to do much more. because we cannot wait until the world's food and energy shortages fly by and then wonder why people are taking to the streets. the money that we give -- and as i said, we're already the biggest donor in the world -- we would have to spend it all the more precisely, so that we also know that the money actually gets to those who need it, that it's not sent anywhere, it's not going anywhere. we have therefore done a great deal of work to ensure that the funds we use are actually used in the right way. the committee on budgets has also adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2000 (com (2002) 020). we have made progress in this area, but the commission is still a long way from what we want. you'll have to work on that; we'll keep you posted. we have asked you to reduce past arrears and we have succeeded in reducing arrears from before 2001 by 39% in europe aid and 49% in the european development fund last year. these are good figures, but of course it's always just an intermediate stage. we have repeatedly pointed out in the context of development policy that it is utter nonsense to maintain two completely parallel systems - one for the european development fund and one for development aid. it must be integrated into the budget! this is a demand we are making now and will make in future negotiations on the financial perspective. the last point i want to make is the budgetary aid. the commission is increasingly turning to granting general budgetary aid to countries. it is possible to do that, but be careful not to have the same thing happen to you as it does to us with the current member states in the structural funds, where we first transfer responsibility because we want the states to take responsibility, and then find that the systems do not work, and then it was none. so my advice is, please be very careful what you do in the first place. we will be very critical, but also positive. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work and thank them for their cooperation.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already done so. the environment committee was satisfied with the work of the directorates-general for the environment and health. i know these are unusual sounds coming from me. the commission is usually criticised, but what is right must remain right. the budget officers in both dgs are very cooperative. thank you, thank you. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr dan jørgensen. he has worked hard throughout the discharge procedure, produced an excellent report and thankfully fully accepted the conclusions of the environment committee on discharge 2006. the committee on budgetary control has thus accepted what the committee on the environment had unanimously adopted. thank you for that, too. let me now say a few words about our agencies. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the council has not yet adopted the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work. we did not recommend to the committee on budgetary control that we should be given discharge for the 2006 financial year because we had been sloppy. no, the opposite is true! very often there was an exchange of information with members of the management boards or with the directors on the committee. the committee also visited the agencies and saw how they worked. the fact that the rapporteur on the committee on budgetary control, who was responsible for the discharge for the agencies, did not want to grant discharge to three of the four agencies was all the more incomprehensible to us, and he gave reasons that were beyond comprehension. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the new eu-wide strategy for the environment, which will be presented to the european parliament and the council in the autumn. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i deeply detest this scandal. agencies are european administrative units. but it's very special. they do not fall from the sky or come from the commission alone, but are established by a regular legislative procedure, either by co-decision or by consultation, depending on the policy area, by regulation, i.e. by law. this means that the european legislator creates the agencies. so we're the adventurers they're talking about. the budget of the agencies shall form part of the budget of the european union. we relieve the director or the directoress of the burden each financial year. i don't think there's a part of the administration that's as well controlled as the agencies. i am therefore very pleased and grateful that the committee has put a proper stop to this attempt to cause scandal.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to say on behalf of the committee on culture that our aim is to promote cultural diversity in europe. our cultural programme reaches the citizens on the ground, which is our stated aim. we therefore expect our national cultural agencies to be particularly well managed. and i would add that the revision of financial regulation will enable us to finance and support, in a much more targeted way, even small projects requested by local citizens. but that also means that we have to find the right balance between cutting red tape and preventing fraud, and that means that we need regulations that are appropriate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by expressing my discharge to parliament and my thanks to our rapporteur and to all those who have been trying to make progress on the secretarial allowance, because this is absolutely the centre of public attention and should be the centre of our attention. we members of parliament have every interest in getting out of the swindle and fraud. the epp has put forward proposals on how the secretariat allowance could be managed more efficiently in the future. these proposals were adopted by a large majority in the committee on budgetary control, such as the fact that the paying agencies in the member states should be notified by parliament itself and thus professionalised. these bodies are then also responsible for managing service contracts and ensuring that taxes are paid and social security contributions are paid. these motions protect the reputation of parliament and the point that members should no longer employ family members. under eu rules, this constitutes a serious conflict of interest. i ask all colleagues to prevent further damage to us and to parliament. i am concerned to see that the socialist group and also parts of the liberals want to vote against this passage of the text. if they pass, it means that we are closing the discharge procedure on this very important issue without progress, and that would be the supergau for all of us, because with a happy 'go on!', we will not survive the new report by the court of auditors on the secretarial allowance. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would recommend that you read the fine print first. it's all still up in the air. that means that to say that the statute of the assistant will help us solve all the problems is simply a lie - and a lie to the public. i would like to say one more thing about the commission's budget: commissioner, there is no doubt that it was a short one, and i hope that your colleagues have given you one because you have earned it. thank you for your cooperation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i shall confine myself to the report on the discharge to the other institutions and thank the rapporteur, mr lundgren, for his cooperation. as far as the institutions are concerned, i would first of all point out that we must finally find a legal basis in the financial regulation for their discharge - and this applies in particular to the council. the current practice of parliament giving discharge to the secretaries-general of the council and the other institutions is not enshrined in the financial regulation and is not in line with article 274 of the treaty. in particular, in sensitive areas such as budgetary control, a reference to a gentlemen's agreement dating from the 1970s is no longer appropriate and is contrary to the principles of legal clarity and legal certainty. we therefore call on the commission to submit an appropriate proposal by september 2008 to close this gap. i therefore ask all members of this house to support our amendment no 1 on the discharge to the council. i would also like to mention the cost of the common foreign and security policy. it is a requirement of the greatest possible transparency that the council resist the temptation to include this expenditure in future in administrative expenditure. as in previous years, the institutions' building policy is an area where budgetary control is becoming increasingly important. i would like to mention the court of justice, which, although it is responsible for financing the building, did not put out a tender or negotiate the contract for its enlargement. i would also like to refer to the award guidelines. we cannot tell our citizens that every small municipality has to make a europe-wide call for tenders for a contract worth over eur 200 000 and that the institutions themselves do not comply with the procurement directives. let me say a few words about the court of auditors. i very much regret that our report suggests that the court of auditors should be organised on the model of the european central bank council. i fear that this institution, which should be free from all political influence by the member states, will be renationalized.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are a free parliament. that is why i have given you the floor, as i am obliged to do under rule 145. i do not wish to judge the content of your statement, but to say that i have applied the rules of procedure fairly in order to give you the opportunity to say what you have expressed here. i take it for granted that i want to be fair and objective - and i am - to all my colleagues in this house. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. (the sitting was suspended at 11.35 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think - although it is a little late - that the colleague's objection has been misunderstood. he wanted to put paragraph 65 to the vote. they've voted on whether to hire family members. paragraph 65 (5) does not regulate this, but whether payments are suspended in the event of suspicion of abuse. we didn't vote on that, or you gave the wrong announcement. just that we've cleared this up so everyone knows what's going on.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would point out that those who made the voting lists were aware of the problem. that means that the characters you have in the voice register already take account of the different linguistic problems. that means that it was quite clear how the groups would vote. it's not like you didn't know what you were voting on. we tried to correct that in the tabling office, and it has been corrected.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to draw the attention of the honourable members to the fact that we have now voted against the european labelling directive ten times - and we will do so ten more times - and we have acted against the labelling directive. we've always voted with the hans-peter martin label, but hans-peter martin is not in.
in writing. - i voted against the discharge to the commission because in many areas there was no economical and efficient use of the budgetary resources in 2006. this is particularly the case with respect to structural funds, fraud in various areas detected in 2007 and building security contracts. i have put a number of written questions to the commission on the latter, to which the commission has not given satisfactory answers.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. my group has requested this debate because we believe that there is an urgent need for action. mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. we have also requested this debate because we want to discuss the development of food prices and the effects of this from a fundamental point of view. there are many explanations: humanity is growing, the available arable land is limited, in many regions of the world, wealth is increasing and with it the ability to buy and consume food. this is a positive development in itself. meat consumption in china, for example, is increasing rapidly. but that's cutting the amount of available mass worldwide. the increase in energy prices and the political targets - including our political targets for climate objectives, for example, to make biofuels more attractive - are leading to the results that my colleague mr daul has just described in his remarks. all these are explanatory patterns that we all know. but there is one point i want to make which has not been mentioned enough. my colleagues will be discussing the many points i have just described in their speeches, but i would like to introduce a point into the debate which we are not discussing at all, but which i believe is essential to the crisis: the large investment funds which have taken over all levels of economic life, which move hundreds of billions of euros and dollars around the world every day, these investment funds, the hedge funds, have also taken over the food sector. i do not want to criticise the people who have been trading in the commodity futures markets for 140 years. it's only natural. but what is happening now is not normal, and that is that there is huge betting and speculation on food price increases. this means that banks in europe are advising their customers to bet on rising food prices to make a profit on their investments. this means, in reverse, that you must reduce the food supply so that prices can rise and you can make a profit! ladies and gentlemen, it means nothing more than that the casino capitalism that has occupied us on all levels has taken a seat at the tables of the poor of this world. this is the real moral scandal behind this crisis! that's why we're here to discuss this. more than ever, this crisis is a clear indication that international control of financial markets is necessary! i would also point out that enormous profits can be made in a few seconds in any sector, for my part, in the gold trade, but not when it comes to feeding large sections of the world's population. this is immoral to the extreme! that should not be underestimated in this debate. we need to discuss the immediate implications for us. what effect does this have on the reform of agricultural market policy here in the community? what is the role of our own export subsidy policy? are we contributing to food shortages by our exports because agriculture in the affected regions of the world cannot develop sufficiently on its own? what is our answer to the question of the multiple availability of bioenergy? does this have to go hand in hand with the shortage, with the limited production of food? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. all these questions must concern us here, but they cannot blind us to one thing, which is that we cannot allow a broken financial system to drive hunger in this world so that a few capitalists can increase their profits even further. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have had a catastrophically low level of agricultural prices in the years and decades that have passed, and there was an urgent need to raise them worldwide. this is a very good development because the price level was below the cost of organic farming, and this has destroyed hundreds of thousands, if not millions of farmers' livelihoods, both in the third world countries and in the european union. if this is being fuelled by speculation, as mr schulz says, then it is also because now that the european union has abolished export subsidies and we have decoupled what is given as a premium, we are more likely to have an intervention mechanism where these food and feed are linked to the price of oil, because we are starting to turn food and feed into fuel. this is encouraging speculation because the possibility and need for transporting food is now increasing worldwide. the european union is the world's largest importer of food and feed. that means we have no surpluses, and the mechanism of importing - the 50 million tonnes of grain units that were bought from third world countries almost below the poverty line - and making food that was then dumped and exported by the billions, undercutting the regional markets in third world countries, has ultimately destroyed the agricultural and regional subsistence economy. we must therefore see this as an opportunity. i do not mean that i believe that agricultural fuels are the panacea because the energy balance is negative and because there is room for speculation, but we must try to convert what is waste into energy. to put it bluntly, we must turn shit into gold and not think we have to compete with human food. full tanks and full plates of plant growth alone are not possible on a global scale! perhaps in europe, because we are rich enough to buy these products and these crops, but the world would starve. i would like to conclude with one final thought: we have 850 million people who are hungry. and these 850 million people were already starving when the price level was catastrophically low. what is happening now is that the middle classes in the third world countries who can afford to buy are having difficulty buying other consumer goods because of the price increase. this is contrary to the strategy of the world bank and the international monetary fund. now they're calling for money. but the 850 million hungry people would have needed this in the past.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the debate is well advanced. i would therefore like to focus on two points. i think mr schulz is quite right in pointing out that the markets - especially the capital and investment markets - have reacted very strongly to the uncertainties that have developed not only in the aftermath of the subprime crisis and not only in europe in recent months, and that this has led many investors to move towards more long-term and more serious investments. this is going to have really drastic consequences for consumers all over the world, because one of the reasons is that food prices have gone up massively. if we look at commodity funds, for example, we see that certain commodity funds have made up to 30% profit in recent years. but it is not possible, of course, to have a just world, a sustainable world, if we first raise our prices, if the capital market raises the prices of raw materials and food, and then try to build solidarity with the countries of southern africa and south america, in order to ship back products that are expensive. it is right that we should try to appeal to the ecb and to the international capital markets to do everything possible to restore confidence in the existing, traditional investment opportunities so that investors can return to these strategies, to these investment opportunities. how is that possible, mr schulz has unfortunately not answered. i believe that we are not incapable, that is to say, that we are not completely without possibilities, but that we must also rely on the european central bank to play its part in this. secondly, i think we also need to be wary of excessive panic. of course, the increase in food prices is considerable at the moment and - as the honourable member has pointed out - it is of considerable importance, especially for consumers in europe, and it is leading to drastic cuts in households. i believe, however, that it is our task to advocate, also here in parliament - some colleagues have also mentioned this - a more realistic approach to the various sources of energy if we are to really make these objectives our own.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. two announcements for today's debate. first, in haiti, bangladesh, egypt and other countries, there have been violent protests against high food prices. secondly, european farmers are demonstrating against the fall in milk prices. these two seemingly contradictory reports, but they go together and prove that the crisis has many facets. we need a package of measures, because the temptation to protectionism by food producers and retail chains is a serious phenomenon, and this is where policy must come first. i do not think, as mr borrell does, that we should regulate, but that we should create more competition. that's the key! i do not see the often cited link between food prices and the cultivation of renewable raw materials in this way. that is overstating the case and not helping. the fact is that the demand for food has increased, especially in china and india. we cannot get around this, but we must nevertheless say that there is no shortage of food to justify this price increase. i think we need to take measures to increase food production. the support payments to our farmers must therefore be developed in this direction. i think that the correction of our agricultural policy is wrong, it must be further developed, and that is an important principle. we should also consider whether our legislation is at all suitable for increasing production. we have many regulations restricting the use of fertilizers and pesticides, which are causing problems in the water framework directive. they are not leading to price increases at the moment. we should think again about whether important developments are necessary. the question of the area set aside must of course be developed further. the shutdown must be lifted. these are areas where food should be grown.
the commission has already done so. i am convinced that we are dealing with a serious problem here. i would urge us not to throw the child out with the bathtub, but to really investigate the reasons. i am a little surprised that many of my colleagues are so surprised by this food debate. the world population has been expanding steadily over the last twenty years; 80 million people are born every year. and anyone who acts surprised now has to ask themselves if they've been on board recently. we must look for the points where we can do something and where we probably can do nothing. i think that a bad point is the question of the world stock market speculation in cereals and cocoa products. there's a lot of liquidity in the stock market, and speculators are now buying commodities instead of stocks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must take strong action here. the export refund is a sweet child, and everyone says it must be abolished now. we already did that, by the way. 2013 is the year it expires. but we should not forget to tell the american people that they must also stop their food aid. because only if we do this together can the instrument work. if it is to work, we must set up agricultural policy and production in the troubled countries of the world. for that we need stable political conditions in these countries. mismanagement is disappointing many farmers, property rights are unclear, huge property taxes have to be paid to corrupt governments. unfortunately, we have god's race conflicts and there is no equity for seeds and tractors at all. how can a farmer produce - i am one myself - if he has no seeds? that is what we must focus on. i would imagine that we need a european external agricultural policy. the european union must put its full weight on the scales to make up for these shortfalls.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in germany , fairy tales usually begin with three words: it was once. i would like to begin my speech with that. there was once a world trade organization called the wto, which wanted to bring about a global balance of supply and demand through total free trade. it promised people in the poorest countries a substantial increase in wealth through trade liberalization, and cheap food to people in the richest countries. so much for the fairy tale! the reality is different. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european food safety authority. the world bank and the wto must take note of this. the world's free trade in agricultural products benefits only a few agricultural corporations that export food from even the poorest countries without regard for the food situation. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to combat poverty. if agricultural prices are high, people in poor regions can no longer afford food, and if agricultural prices are low, farmers in developed regions will no longer produce food because it is not worth the price. the two don't match. i doubt whether mr zoellick of the world bank, mr lamy of the wto and - i regret to say this - mr hökmark of my own group understand these connections. that is why the situation will not change much in the near future. as far as agricultural prices in europe are concerned, i received 26 cents for 1 kg of cereals in 1961, and 8 cents two years ago. the agricultural price cannot be the cause of the high food prices!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr minister, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. today is a good day for europe! we give the green light to one of the most important projects of the european union for the galileo satellite navigation system. i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mrs barsi-pataky, and my colleagues from the committee on budgets and the committee on transport for their excellent cooperation. i think that we have worked very well together as parliament on this dossier and have achieved a really good result with the council and the commission. there has been much discussion about whether we need a european satellite navigation system at all. mrs jensen mentioned it: we have the american gps, the russians have glonass, the chinese are building something. this shows that we must also afford our own european satellite navigation system. we must have this technology in europe. we need the knowhow to build such systems in europe on our own, and we must also do something for our smes, the small and mediumsized enterprises, which will benefit from it when the infrastructure is created, by developing applications in many areas that we may not even think of today: in the logistics sector, in the road transport sector, in shipping, railways, aviation, in the security sector. there are so many applications, and i hope that we have done a good preliminary work today, especially for our smes. galileo has a long history. i do not want to repeat this, i just want to emphasize that parliament has always supported the galileo project. we secured financing last year from european taxpayers and with tomorrow's vote we will make an important contribution to ensuring that the project is carried out properly, that the process is transparent and that we, as a parliament, as a co-legislator in europe, are involved in the further development and implementation of this project.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. galileo could also be subtitled 'the endless history'. i hope that with today's debate and tomorrow's vote, that subtitle is off the table. the infinite story is becoming more concrete. i would like to thank mrs barsi-pataky in particular for her collegial cooperation, not only now in the trilogue negotiations but also in recent years. she's always been a fair partner, and we've found reasonable and healthy compromises. the president-in-office of the council, mr delors, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the council. a very competent, committed woman who certainly - i suspect - once had a difficult time in the council finding these compromises. my group, the social democrats, have always supported the galileo project and they are still supporting the result. i can assure you that tomorrow there will be no opposition in the group, we will all vote in favour. we must also register - and i can ask you to record this just as a matter of course, it does not have to be in the record - that one or other german representative had to fight with his own government to get this started. mrs niebler is smiling, she knows what i'm talking about. we have succeeded in defining clear structures with this regulation, in finding a clear responsibility between the commission, the supervisory authority and the esa. we have the 'interinstitutional panel' in which the european parliament, the council and the commission will monitor the progress of this project. we will meet four times a year until 2013, and we all assume that 2013 is a date we will also stick to. and 3.4 billion is a budget that we will also stick to, otherwise it will be difficult to argue. galileo is - as my colleague mrs niebler has just mentioned - not just a satellite navigation system that might help some citizens to reach their destination more quickly. galileo is an important technological development for us in europe, and we must maintain the know-how we have in space travel, in navigation technology, in electronics. that's why it's important for us to do this project here. the commission must now, above all, complete the call for tenders before the summer. that's going to be a very difficult task. there will be a strict regulation. we must give industry a second chance, and industry has to take advantage of this second chance. i hope the industry representatives know what they are in for. we cannot afford a second failure because of difficulties with industry. i am very much looking forward to the commission's proposal, action plan and, above all, the financial perspective from 2014 onwards. in conclusion, let us say again together that ppp has not been a complete failure. from 2013/2014 we can use ppp again when operating the model. i wouldn't want to demonize ppp right now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there's a lot of euphoria about galileo. but there are two giant drops of wormwood. firstly, the high costs, which are now almost exclusively borne by taxpayers in the eu. it is at least 3.4 billion euros, but it is sure to be more. secondly, the foreseeable military use of galileo. galileo has always been touted as the civilian alternative to gps. the exclusive use of the military was even contractually stipulated. the current eu budget financing does not allow for military use under the current treaties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but the military use has been planned for a long time. here, they hope to raise money from the arms industry for galileo. the fourth service of galileo, the so-called government regulated service, is obviously intended for dual use, including military operations, as well as police, coastguard and intelligence services. please say something about that. no one needs a second military satellite programme unless it is used for eu geostrategic and military interests. that is why galileo must be a civilian project.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm going to put a few drops of vermouth in the wine. after the great crisis we now have a good and balanced proposal for a regulation which will, in my view, secure the building phase. but we must not go on with this. the project has been postponed by five years with the planned start of the operational phase in 2013. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. that is why i believe that we still need a detailed analysis of the crisis that the commission has created, because we must learn from the failure of the ppp model, because with caesar we are going to have another ppp model. we are now without a system advantage with galileo, so it is much more difficult to market the system. for this reason, we need to have a timely discussion on the public costs of the post-2013 operational phase, and to do so we should focus on how to define publicly funded systems for galileo such as the toll, ecall and caesar. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that is what we must focus on, because that is where the value is. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. all the court judgments concern cases where the trade unions have taken internationally recognised collective action to combat social dumping. in all three judgments, the european court of justice has recognised that these measures are a legitimate trade union right. however, this right has been called into question by the court of justice in relation to the internal market. in the laval and rüffert cases, the statutory minimum standard was interpreted as the only maximum standard applicable in the internal market. the european court of justice thus interpreted the posting of workers directive in a very specific direction. but that is not what the legislator intended. the recital in the preamble to the directive calls for the promotion of the free movement of services in the context of fair competition and for the protection of the rights of workers. in addition, the posting of workers directive contains a first-preference clause for workers, and this has not been taken into account in the court's judgments. the court is now creating a situation in the european union where the posting of workers directive is being transformed from a minimum to a maximum directive and where it is legitimate to gain a competitive advantage through social dumping. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i may be criticizing the court's decisions. but a union without the equivalent elements of social europe, such as collective agreements, collective action and the fight against social dumping, is doomed to failure and will no longer have the support of the citizens. so our green answer is at this point: the principle of 'equal pay for equal work at the same place' must be given equal status with the freedom criteria in the internal market!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i disagree with you in that there is no contradiction between strong social protection for workers and a strong internal market. a single eu market subject to the logic of global competition is ultimately the embodiment of such a contradiction. i agree with you, however, that member states have a responsibility to transpose eu law into national law, and at least in the rüffert case the rulers in berlin and lower saxony cannot simply point the finger at the european court of justice. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. i ask you, commissioner, to take up your responsibility and to call openly for the necessary correction of the eu legal bases. this concerns, for example, articles 50 and 56 of the consolidated version of the treaty of lisbon of 15 april, the tightening of the posting of workers directive, the granting of the right to strike, including the right to strike across borders. i would also point out that the clarification of political problems cannot simply be left to the ecj, but that both the institutions of the european union - the council, the commission, the european parliament - and the national states with their legislation bear responsibility for this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the lisbon treaty will bring a considerable improvement for workers. that is why we must accept it, because social policy will be a cross-cutting task. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need competitiveness, we need more productivity - and this certainly has to be a headline in a global order - but in all three cases we find that it is not a question of competition in a global order, but of whether work has been done in certain areas within the european union between member states of the european union within the framework of a common internal market. we must not allow the global order to be used to pit workers from different member states against each other in terms of international competitiveness. if the solidarity of workers is destroyed, so is the european union, so is the cohesion of our societies. that is why it is important that we do not go to court now, but make it clear that we need to review the legislation. the posting directive dates back to the early 1990s. it's not true today! we need to check what's wrong with it. i don't know the details. the collective bargaining partners must ensure that their collective agreements are concluded in accordance with the internal market. national legislation must be adapted to this. we must check all this. at the same time, this must not lead to isolationism and protectionism, because mobility should be guaranteed. if we talk about the four fundamental freedoms, these are the four fundamental freedoms of the market. but my definition of a social market economy means that the market can only take place within a framework that the legislator sets up so that we have a fair distribution of the benefits of this economic order and not leave them to the free play of forces. if this happens, the market will eat itself. the social market economy will therefore need such a framework. mr president, let me conclude by quoting a quote. not the free market economy of the liberal exploitation of a past era, nor the free play of forces and similar phrases , but the socially obliged market economy, which makes the individual individual come to the fore again, which puts the value of the personality at the top and then allows the performance but also the earned income to benefit, this is the market economy of modern character. this is a quote from ludwig erhard, who certainly cannot be said to have been against a market economy.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. of course, closer cooperation between national administrations is right and good. i appreciate that. it is even indispensable. but if we really want to prevent a race for the lowest minimum wage in europe, we need more, and you know that, commissioner špidla. after the rüffert judgment, there is only one solution in my opinion. we must improve the posting policy. the commission is also called upon to do so. we must draw legislative consequences from this judgment, because this judgment is contrary to the intention of the posting of workers directive. the freedom to provide services is put above the protection of workers. the minimum protection provided is even declared to be the maximum protection. in my country, germany, eight of the sixteen länder are directly affected by this judgment. the regional governments wanted to set an example in this area of wage dumping. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the social criteria for this are the respect of local collective wages, which are higher than the minimum wage. i find the court's decision difficult to understand. if we really want social standards - and i think we all do - then more than a minimum wage must be possible. the court of justice has already ruled that the principle of equal treatment for men and women is not applicable to the employment of men and women. that is not the social europe that my group wants. to be on the safe side, we must also examine the award guidelines. in my own country, the judgments of the european court of justice which we have been discussing this evening have led to a back flash in the acceptance of europe by the working class. we are all called upon to turn the wheel here.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. when i think of africa, i often ask myself: is africa, from our european point of view, a forgotten continent, or do we as europeans already see opportunities in africa? i often get the impression that we europeans still see africa as too much of a problem and that we do not see the opportunities. the chinese approach to africa is very different. for the chinese, africa is an opportunity, and they're taking advantage of it. they have done so in the past few years rather unnoticed and only in the past few months in a very strong way, pursuing a policy of purely economic interest. issues such as human rights, the rule of law, good governance, as some of my colleagues have already mentioned, are of no importance to the chinese in africa at the moment. it is about investing in infrastructure in africa to give us unlimited access to the commodity markets. it is about meeting china's growing demand for raw materials. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am firmly convinced that we must do much more to integrate african countries into the world economy so that they can benefit from globalisation on world markets with their raw materials, their wealth and everything they have to offer, and not become dependent on chinese monopolies. we must engage in dialogue with the african states more than ever before, we must compete more intensively than in the past with the chinese and really do everything we can to convince the africans of good governance and the benefits of free markets. only then will we be able to promote the rule of law, democracy and human rights in africa, and only then will we be able to prevent african countries from drifting towards china, because china - we have seen this very intensively in recent weeks - will certainly not teach africans how democracy and the social market economy work.
i have to say, madam president, the renewed interest in africa around the world is accompanied by a change in perspective. africa is now more than just a continent of poverty. in some african countries, growth rates are as high as 10%. now to the heart of the matter: what is china looking for in africa? his main motivation for his involvement there is energy resources. but in the battle for access to raw materials, western values-based policies are increasingly losing out. europe's main motive is the sustainable development of africa. a common approach with china towards africa would be theoretically ideal. we should not pretend to be the good guys. because the countries of africa distrust the eu as much as china. the eu cannot impose solutions on china or africa. in any case, the eu must continue to make its commitment conditional, while at the same time giving greater support to governments, institutions and civil society than it has done so far. the dialogue with africa is necessary, but it must not ignore grievances. i can only support the report by ana maria gomes in that respect.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the eu-latin america/caribbean summit.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the house is empty. when the heads of state or government of the european union and the latin american countries meet in lima on 16 and 17 may, they will have the chance to make a historic breakthrough in developing a new dimension in the relations between these two continents in the bi-regional dialogue between europe and latin america. one third of the member states of the united nations are european and latin american countries. this number alone must mean to europeans that transatlantic relations are more than europe's relations with the united states of america. transatlantic relations are primarily europe and latin america! the latin american countries share the views of the european union on almost all the important issues we discuss in this parliament! in our resolution we speak of our ideas of social cohesion, which are shared by all latin american governments, whether they are right-wing or left-wing. we are talking about the need for environmental and climate action and we are getting a lot of response from the latin american side. in the meantime, i would like to say that no climate policy objective can be achieved unless we bring the countries of latin america to our side in order to achieve these objectives. when we talk about reforming international institutions, reforming the united nations, reforming the security council, when we europeans discuss the fact that multilateral policy is the solution to the conflicts of the 21st century, we encounter the full support of all our latin american partners. when we talk about the need to reform financial systems, to control international financial markets, nowhere do we find more understanding than in latin america. talk to an argentine politician, whether right-wing or left-wing, about what international financial policy can do in a country! when we talk about the food crisis, as we did yesterday, and that the shortage of food and the shortage of land available for food production is a consequence of environmental policy because of the use of biomass, talk to brazilians, talk to latin american politicians. you'll find the problems there focused. the food shortages that have led to the rise in food prices affect us and our citizens, but especially the people in latin american countries in their daily lives. nowhere does europe find greater support, greater resonance in solving the problems of the present than in latin america. in vienna, at the last summit, chancellor schüssel, then president of the council, said: 'it was nice, we could talk to everyone! other that's great. we can't afford that in lima anymore. we must now reach concrete agreements with mercosur, the andean community and the central american countries and conclude the negotiations! i do not want to ignore the fact that there are many problems to be solved, but we must address them. how do we deal with cuba? we are not going to let this go on for much longer. the vast majority of the member states of the european union want to abolish these useless sanctions. there are some who don't want to. it is interesting to note that among those who do not want to do so are some countries which are nevertheless massively expanding their bilateral economic relations with cuba. you won't be able to explain this to anyone for a long time. so let's put an end to this policy and remember that change through rapprochement is still a better concept than isolation in the sense of george w. bush! of course, josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra is right when he says that the farc must release the hostages. colombia is one of the countries most affected by the scourge of terrorism and ingrid betancourt must be released, just as all the other hostages must be released! european-latin american relations could be a key factor in the cooperation of two large regions of the world. the world must be made more peaceful, its institutions must be adapted to the 21st century, environmental problems, food problems, financial controls must be improved - all these are the issues on the agenda in lima. my group attaches the greatest importance to the fact that we as the european parliament will give this policy a higher priority in the future than we have done so far.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i too, of course, wish mr bonde well. but i think it is a little unfortunate that what he has said about the institutions often enough should be said again in this important debate on latin america. because the subject of latin america is important in itself. the figures mr schulz has given are also indicative of this: one third of the members of the united nations meet in lima. you represent a billion people, and if we are united, then together we can make a positive world. and given the globalization and the challenges we face, for example in dealing with china or other countries, it is necessary that latin america and europe work together. the climate change will be an important issue, and the resolutions rightly state that it is the poor who are most affected by climate change. i can say this from personal experience, because i'm involved in a small ngo in central america. what people there suffered after hurricanes mitch and stan is a small taste of what we will experience if we don't get climate change under control. it is good that we agree on many points. we still disagree on some points. we have here in the house adopted by a large majority the inclusion of air transport in the emissions trading scheme. mr barrot knows this and has also been very critical. the rest of the world has tried to block this at icao, unfortunately also latin america. i think this has to be a topic in lima. if we are to fight climate change together, then the latin american countries must also cooperate constructively on this issue. finally, a word on cuba. mr schulz said we should not follow bush's policy. we never did. there was never the form of economic sanctions that hit people the way the americans did. but we have in the past made it a priority to include our partners, the democratic opposition, in the dialogue. oswaldo payá and the damas de blanco have been awarded the sakharov prize, and we cannot go on the agenda if the damas de blanco have still not been able to receive it and if, as just now at the weekend, some of them have been arrested again. we should not forget our partners in the dialogue with cuba.
the president of the republic of slovenia. it is a great pleasure, mr president of the republic of slovenia, to welcome you to the european parliament here in strasbourg today. you're very welcome. slovenia joined the european union on 1 may 2004 and now holds the presidency of the council. mr president, you took office as president of slovenia four months ago and we have met three times in that time. the first time was two days before you took office in ljubljana, then on 8 january at the opening of the european year of intercultural dialogue, and finally in february on the sidelines of the united nations general assembly in new york on climate change. mr president, you are the third president of slovenia since independence. you have a long and valuable experience as a professor of international law and, above all, as a diplomat, having devoted a large part of your professional life to the united nations. you were the permanent representative of the republic of slovenia to the united nations for eight years and its deputy secretary-general for political affairs for five years. slovenia is now honoured to be the first of the new member states to join the european union on 1 may 2004, the first former communist country and the first slavic country to hold the presidency of the european union. this privilege comes with a great responsibility for slovenia, which you assume, because by taking on this responsibility the new member states now also have a responsibility for the big family in the european union. the presidency of the council also gives slovenia a further responsibility towards its neighbours, the countries of the western balkans. slovenia is a model for these countries, showing them that success is possible, that membership of the european union can be achieved and that stability, development and prosperity can be achieved with accession. mr president, you will now speak to us, it is a great pleasure to ask you to do so. please, please!
president of the republic of slovenia. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour to be invited to address this house. it is only a month since we celebrated the 50th anniversary of the first session of the european parliamentary assembly. the anniversary is a great opportunity to reflect on the present and the future of the european union. today i am granted the special privilege of sharing my thoughts with you as the elected representatives of the peoples of europe. this parliament and, of course, the european union as a whole, are the magnificent creation of a great vision, a vision of lasting peace and prosperity, brought to the people of europe by a spirit of cooperation and ever-increasing integration. the fathers of this vision jean monnet, robert schuman, konrad adenauer, alcide de gasperi and others could probably not have imagined that 51 years after the creation of the european communities, slovenia would preside over a highly interconnected european union, the first of the new member states following the great enlargement of the european union in 2004, and that the slovenian president would address the european parliament. however, their sense of satisfaction would likely override their sense of surprise. the european project has not only succeeded, but has also proved to be a project with great transformative power, creating a completely new type of europe, one that had not been known in previous periods of its long history. more importantly, the european union has already established itself as a global actor, a global player, through the european project. and that's what i want to talk about today. what made this incredible success possible, this emergence of this great and important global player? how should we understand the lesson of this success today? are we able to apply the lessons of the past to the challenges of today and tomorrow? these are the questions we must ask ourselves all the time. the european union will continue to face complex issues in an increasingly globalised world and will need to have credible answers to them. the european union will continue to be a great success story if it maintains its dynamism and proves to be a global political actor with increasing weight, i would add, political weight. moving on is a prerequisite for success. what is required of the european union at this stage is that it takes on the role of world leader. in many areas, its world leadership is either already established or eagerly awaited. i would like to mention two at this point: global warming and human rights. last year, the european union put environmental issues, and in particular global warming, at the heart of its policy-making. this was undoubtedly the right and wise decision, for climate change and environmental degradation are proven to be the most serious threat and the greatest challenge facing us all. the european commission has defined specific objectives that enable the european union to play a leading role on a global scale. the key objective is to achieve a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 compared to 1990. the achievement of this objective is defined as a stand-alone commitment. the initiative for an even more ambitious target should be part of a global international agreement involving other key actors. in this case, the european union would be prepared to achieve a reduction of as much as 30% over the same period, as proposed by the european commission. these goals are so important, so ambitious, that they truly enable a transformative vision of action in the face of global warming and a much-needed example of global leadership. but are these goals attainable, or will they become another insurmountable obstacle? the answer is not yet clear. last month, the european council welcomed the commission's proposal as a good basis for an agreement. consultations this year and next will show how much can be achieved in practice ahead of the international conference in copenhagen scheduled for december 2009. the european parliament, and i want to stress this in particular, has already recognised the importance of this issue by setting up a special committee on climate change and will have a very important role to play in this respect. the task ahead of us is likely to be difficult. the turmoil that is beginning to be felt in the european media offers a whole range of mixed messages. there are expressions of support, but also of scepticism, which point to the concerns expressed by some european industries, as well as to the fact that the current global economic difficulties are making it more difficult to compete, and that environmental issues are relatively less important. tough times like this are a real test of leadership. clearly, global warming has already reached the point where the international community faces a stark choice: either to continue with growth methods and finally accept disaster, or to summon the courage for a transformative approach that can adequately mitigate the effects of global warming and prevent the worst. we're not gonna make it with a growth mindset. transformation, though difficult to achieve, is the essence of the agenda. and i hope that this year we will choose the path that leads to transformation, to transformation. in this effort, the line of defence will need to be significantly widened. but there are many who feel the need to move on to transformation. ngos, the media and other civil society actors are being mobilised. there is a strong drive in the business community to develop new technologies based on clean energy. and more and more people are willing to change their spending habits. it's about connecting the tendencies into a meaningful movement. the time frame is known. so is the location. the action plan adopted in bali last december envisages the conclusion of negotiations next year with the adoption of a global agreement to replace the kyoto protocol in 2012. although the negotiations will take place in the united nations, it is important that they find support everywhere. time and space allow us to combine our efforts. and this is the time when the european union must take the lead. respect for the environment is not the only area where the european union needs to take on the role of world leader. a stronger role for the union in the promotion of human rights in the world is also urgently needed. the european union's commitment to human rights is, of course, unquestionable. the european institutions are based on the rule of law and human rights, and europe is a human rights area. the ratification of the lisbon treaty in all member states by the end of this year, the year in which we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, would also mean that, for the first time in the history of the union, the full range of civil, political, economic and social rights of citizens and residents of the union, as laid down in the union charter of fundamental rights, would become legally binding. and the world situation, globally, is not encouraging. human rights are being violated in many parts of the world in a massive and systematic way. this is partly due to the ruthless pursuit of economic gain, regardless of the needs of the local population and the environment. in many places, especially among the poor and the indigenous, poverty and hunger, and in some cases extinction, are threatening. atrocities amounting to crimes against humanity continue to be committed in armed conflicts in many parts of africa and asia. the european union must be active by proposing economic models for sustainable growth, it must be active through humanitarian and diplomatic efforts, but also through sanctions that will support the decisions of the international criminal court. the european union's leading role is particularly needed at this stage, as global human rights action is lagging behind. the united nations human rights council continues to strive for proper working methods. its efforts to establish a system of universal periodic review of human rights in a global framework are promising but not yet effective. his action against the massive and systematic violation of human rights is not comprehensive enough. all of this can be remedied over time, but not without effective leadership, not without effective leadership by those united nations member states that are truly committed to human rights. in reality, this cannot happen without a stronger leadership role from the european union, which is the most important group of influential states in the united nations. some other traditional supporters of human rights have recently become less active and have not run for membership of the united nations human rights council. the increasing concern about terrorism and other security threats, together with the sometimes ill-considered responses to these threats, has clearly reduced the level of sensitivity to human rights. the european union must fill this gap. the union must also seek new ways of cooperating with the united nations security council. the work of the security council in darfur has helped establish the role of the international criminal court in efforts to prosecute the perpetrators of some of the most heinous crimes of our time. almost exactly a year ago, the international criminal court issued arrest warrants for some of these perpetrators. efforts to bring these individuals to justice must continue and cooperation with the security council will remain critical. however, even without the security council, the european union must consider measures to contribute to the effectiveness of the international criminal court. i would stress that international justice is the backbone of international human rights action today and that it requires effective support. the european union should also be committed to the emerging democracies in the world that are genuinely committed to human rights. they are interested in international action, but they must take into account their regional and other affiliations and these aspects are not neglected in all international action related to human rights. but these countries are partners of the european union and we must nurture this partnership. ladies and gentlemen, international human rights action, in its various forms, can only be effective if it is based on a solid foundation, on consistent respect for human rights at home. this includes protecting the human rights of migrants and asylum seekers and the prudent application of the law in cases involving terrorism charges. however, the building of that foundation still needs to continue. the lisbon treaty incorporated the charter of fundamental freedoms of the european union and an improved decision-making process that will facilitate the adoption of bold and creative solutions in the field of human rights. the need for creativity in europe is not new. the european creative turmoil, as german president horst köhler explained in his speech to this parliament two years ago, this creative turmoil has helped europeans to face the various social and political challenges in commitment, freedom and truth, with the ability to realise solidarity and create greater prosperity for all. nowhere will creativity and creative disruption be needed more than in the area of immigration management and integration. europe is ageing and will no longer be able to play the role of world leader without a successful population policy. these policies will necessarily include the management of immigration. europe needs newcomers, positive in spirit and able to do their part in creating prosperity for all. however, it is clear that the policy measures that can help in the process of integrating immigrants are diverse and must be properly tailored to the circumstances of each country of immigration. at the same time, some elements have wider applications and in some respects the european union can learn from non-european countries such as canada. immigration policies will require a set of coordinated objectives at the level of the european union as a whole. the objective of a common european asylum system by 2010 seems both ambitious and urgent. improved coordination between immigration and development aid policies is also needed. the european union must strengthen its role in the united nations high-level dialogue on migration. at the same time, it requires creativity in terms of the inclusion of immigrants and their communities. economic prosperity and greater upward social mobility are key to successful immigration policy. for example, business activities run by ethnic minorities provide jobs and make a significant contribution to the economy of host countries. on the other hand, governments can do their part by providing appropriate regulations, training programmes and general support for entrepreneurship. inclusion must include effective access to quality education, including language education, and access to universities. education is the key to successfully integrating immigrants into wider society. and success is about making it visible. successful people of immigrant origin should be given the opportunity to appear on television and in other media and be held up as examples of success. this will help the wider public to understand that diversity and inclusion are compatible and that non-discrimination and the use of equal opportunities are among the most important civic virtues. there's nothing more successful than success. and there's nothing on television that looks better than the success of those who started on the sidelines. i have shed some light on the issue of immigration and integration because of their importance for the future of europe and also because they represent another area where european creativity will be put to the test. in the past, europe has managed to solve most social issues, and has thus become a world example of social justice and economic prosperity. so there is no reason why our generation cannot find good solutions in the field of immigration and integration. europe has much to gain from integrating people who are capable, skilled and willing to contribute to its future and prosperity. ladies and gentlemen, today, without a doubt, we need leadership, we need vision, and we need creativity. at the same time, the european union must demonstrate its ability to continue to find answers to the various challenges by finding pragmatic solutions. we must not forget that pragmatism was the key to the creation of the european communities more than five decades ago and remains the key to their success today. the establishment of the european communities for economic purposes was a highly pragmatic idea that made possible all further integration. the development of the european economic community towards a customs union and beyond, the ability to develop new forms of cooperation and new institutions with additional powers, and the capacity for geographical enlargement, all illustrate the importance of pragmatism in the history and development of the european union. today, the union is also facing new challenges that require pragmatic adaptation. among these, its further expansion stands out. while it is clear that all those who seek membership, all candidates, will have to meet the criteria, none of them should be prevented from joining simply because of political problems or cultural prejudices. (applause) i would like to thank you. the european union needs turkey in its efforts to assume a strategic role in the world, and accession negotiations with turkey must continue. the union must not deny turkey the prospect of membership, which has already been granted. if that were to happen, it would call into question the credibility of the european union itself. the european union cannot accept a black hole in the western balkans. the accession negotiations need to define more clearly the european perspective of the western balkans. this will require further work with individual countries in the region, which need to strengthen their capacity to meet the membership criteria, as well as with the region as a whole, which needs a framework to address and solve common problems. in its policy towards its eastern and other neighbours, the european union must use the same pragmatism that has helped to achieve success in the past. without talking about models, i would like to stress that ukraine and moldova need the prospect of membership of the european union and that they must not be denied it. pragmatism, ladies and gentlemen, is expressed in practice as well as in the state of mind. it is clear that in all matters relating to membership, candidate countries must meet all the required criteria. there are good reasons why the european union's practice in respect of these criteria is consistent and even rigorous. if the road to fulfillment is long, so be it. a year or two of negotiations is a small price to pay for maintaining credibility and respect for the standards of the european union. but the prospect of enlargement, the prospect of new membership must remain credible. countries that are able to meet the criteria must not be excluded from the enlargement process of the european union. a feeling of exclusion breeds discontent, and discontent breeds instability. it is therefore necessary to maintain a pragmatic attitude and to think about future enlargement in the light of the needs of the european union as a global actor. ladies and gentlemen, let me clear the air. the european union is a great historical achievement. it has now reached a stage of development where it must be aware of its leading role in world affairs and the responsibilities which this status imposes on the european union. the european union should be expected to play a leading role in all matters, such as global warming and human rights. creativity will continue to be a central guide in the search for effective policies in areas such as immigration and integration. finally, pragmatism will remain equally important in all matters relating to further enlargement, which is necessary to ensure the european union's leading role at the global level. all of this may sound a bit grandiose, but progress is always the best antidote to stagnation. our time is no exception in this regard, and it is true that today's problems are more varied than in the past. but that, too, we must not forget, is only a natural consequence of success. (applause) i would like to thank you.
president türk, i would like to thank you. we are very grateful to you for your european speech. your presence and your speech have shown that slovenia and the slovenian presidency, with prime minister janus janša - i see two ministers here: janez lenarčič and janez podobnik - want to work closely with the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. our experience here in the european parliament is that the success of a presidency does not depend on whether it is a large, medium or small country of the european union, but on the spirit which guides that presidency. it is already possible to say that slovenia, because it is working with such a european spirit, and president türk, will also take europe forward with this presidency. we want to thank you for that. (applause from the centre) we also want to thank you for supporting our priorities as a european parliament, and i will mention only two of them. on the one hand, climate protection: if we stick to the timetable, we will conclude our work in such a way that there will be a position of the european union at the united nations summit in copenhagen in december 2009. we also want to thank you for your advocacy for human rights. because if we as the european parliament do not stand up for human rights, who will? governments are often driven by interests - which is understandable - but it is important that we combine interests and our values in a smart way that serves the people, and that is why human rights are at the heart of our policies. mr president, thank you very much for coming to the european parliament. you're gonna be staying with us for a while. i would like to thank you personally and the slovenian presidency once again on behalf of the members. we wish you all the best in the six months you will be leading europe, the european union. if you succeed, we will all succeed, that is, the european union, this is our common goal. thank you very much. the formal sitting is now closed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today's vote is a breakthrough for macedonia's soon to be eu membership. this is the achievement of the late president trajkowski, a personal and pan-european friend who started this path, but also the great success of the current macedonian government, with prime minister gruevski and foreign minister milososki, who have gathered friends throughout europe for this european country, which has an excellent minority policy, is developing excellently and which we want to support massively. i would like to make it quite clear that i am appealing to my greek colleagues to finally get down to the name issue. this house has made it quite clear today that it rejects any blockade on the name issue and that bilateral issues must not be a barrier to accession. we have decided this today by a large majority in the house, and that is a serious blow to the heads of the governments which are blocking this. i appeal to all to put an end to this blockade in the interests of europe! the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training.
in writing. − the green group will not vote in favour of the meijer report on macedonia. although the report contains many parts that clearly set out the progress macedonia has made, it is totally unacceptable how, at the very last minute, greek politicians have lobbied against the paragraph on the name issue. the most notable expression of this was the wish to delete the reference to the 1995 interim accord in which greece gave its assurance that the name issue would not be an obstacle to macedonia’s membership of international institutions. greece not only calls into question its commitment to international law but is also interfering in the sovereignty of another state in an unprecedented way. this behaviour by an eu member state is not acceptable.
in writing. - i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mrs ana maria gomes, very sincerely for this explanation of vote. the report we voted on was a great success. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for including in the report many aspects of the opinion of the committee on international trade. it is important to me that china's policies in africa are fairly assessed and that there is no blanket rejection of china's involvement in africa. the eu should rather strengthen its own commitment to the 'more europe in africa' approach. this could improve the eu's visibility and strengthen its own ties with africa by increasing its european presence. closer trade links between the two continents can be of great benefit to both sides.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. in a few days' time the council will decide whether to maintain its common position on burma and whether to maintain the sanctions. there is no substantial change in burma in terms of democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the new constitution, which will be published in the official journal of the european union. in short, there is no reason to ease the sanctions. it is true that a constitutional referendum has been announced and a draft constitution has been published. but it lacks any democratic legitimacy. the public is as little involved as the democratic opposition. the draft constitution itself contains a lot of democratic weaknesses. it's absurd to give the military a quarter of the seats. it is absurd to exclude candidates who are married to foreigners or have foreign children. all this does not bode well for democratic progress. what can be done? i would like to add my voice to the calls that have been made so far, and in particular to the moderate remarks made by my colleague, mr geoffrey van orden. but we cannot address burma alone. without the chinese support, the junta could not survive. that is why the chinese are also responsible for what is happening there. china has entered the economic vacuum created by the sanctions and is taking advantage of the western sanctions. that is why china must be addressed if the situation there is to be changed. i would also like to appeal to my friends in asean. i know that my asean friends consider any comments on myanmar to be interference in internal affairs, but i also know that they are uncomfortable with myanmar. and i tell them that the myanmar case is clouding the image of asean in the world. that is why asean must also exert pressure.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. since the establishment of the european border guard agency frontex, the implementation of the european work programmes has been effective and orderly. nevertheless, my group is extremely concerned about the adoption of the frontex regulation. the reason for this is the tragic events in the mediterranean which have often led to the loss of lives in search of a better life. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter. one of these is: have frontex's human rights obligations been fully incorporated into existing rules and practices? or, to put it a little more precisely and frankly, can the commission and the council ensure that eu member states, assisted by frontex, are fulfilling their responsibilities under the treaties and the international convention in controlling and protecting external borders? frontex's public statistics only refer to the number of migrants prevented from entering the european union. there are no statistics on the number of asylum seekers who have been taken in, nor are there any statistics on how they have been treated. we are therefore interested in the following: are there statistics on asylum seekers who have been accepted? if so, why have these figures not been made public? finally, if an asylum seeker is apprehended, what role does frontex play in coordinating the asylum application? where are these applications examined? what mechanisms ensure that an asylum application is thoroughly examined before the asylum seeker is returned?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european union and its institutions always pretend that the fight for human rights is of central importance. however, this does not seem to apply to the eu's own frontex agency and the policies behind it. the eu wants to use frontex to protect itself against people from outside, not to save people. aid agencies believe that the deployment of frontex will lead to more deaths because the roads will become longer. frontex is a militarization of the refugee defense. the question is, why are the refugees coming? this has a lot to do with the wealth gap. something has to be done about that. climate change will make it even more likely that refugees will want to come to europe. there is no parliamentary control over frontex. i remember a hearing of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs where the head of frontex did not consider it necessary to attend. the european union's approach is obviously to pick out the bad guys among the migrants and refugees and keep the rest of the refugees out, including frontex. frontex is worsening the situation of refugees as a whole. the position of our group is therefore quite clear: frontex must be dissolved and refugees must be helped instead. that would be the right approach, not to continue to isolate and build up this fortress europe.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the oral question to the commission on biodiversity (cop 9) and the 4th meeting of the parties to the cartagena protocol on biosafety (cop-mop 4) by mr miroslav ouzký on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0023/2008 - b6-0017/2008)
thank you very much. i'll pass on your complaint. perhaps you'll be contacted accordingly.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. all of us who have spoken here have made a commitment to more species protection, to more biodiversity. we know that the nature conservation directives and the network of nature reserves created by natura 2000 is a success story for the european union. but all this poetry, all these declarations must not hide the fact that not only the climate - as you said, commissioner - has conquered the headlines, but unfortunately also the protection of species and nature. threatened species in particular are often presented as blockers, as obstacles to building projects. i therefore find it quite shameful that in germany, the host country of the conference of the contracting states, the conservative governments of the states of hesse and lower saxony have launched a federal council initiative which is designed to attack precisely this success story of the european union. it is absolutely incredible that germany is calling for the extension of protected areas and the protection of endangered species in the poorer countries, while at the same time trying to water down nature conservation in the european union. and not just germany, i'm afraid. the liberal group in the european parliament has suddenly held a seminar on this very subject. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i expect you, commissioner, to make a very clear commitment once again from the european union that all attempts ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome market-based instruments for policy enforcement, including in environmental policy. however, i would like to point out that a policy instrument is not automatically good just because it says 'market-based'. all the instruments we use to achieve policy objectives must be able to withstand a number of questions. is the instrument tuned to a specific target? if you mix up several objectives, none of them will be achieved properly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. does it really help to achieve the goal? you have to check it afterwards, periodically. is the instrument tuned to other instruments? is it efficient, so is the benefit in relation to the cost? i see some points in this report where i have doubts that these criteria are met. emissions trading systems work well in theory, but the reality is different. the european carbon trading system is in a state of chaos. wealth was destroyed and the real goal was not achieved. well, it was a test run, we're still practicing, but we certainly can't afford many of these expensive tests. the next example is tax policy. taxation has no place in an eu green paper on market-based instruments. an instrument is not market-based simply because it affects elements of the market. i am not opposed to taxes being levied to achieve environmental objectives, but i am in favour of their being levied only if they meet the criteria mentioned. i am in favour of setting targets that must be achieved. the choice of the means of achieving the objectives should be left to the market participants.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their comments and the views they expressed during the debate. i will try to comment on some of the comments made. ms ferreira commented on the lack of information about the replies to our debate. i would like to inform you that we received 170 replies, which are being analysed at the moment, and we hope to have a summary of these replies by the end of the summer, in which case we shall, of course, provide you with this summary. mr wijkman raised the point of inconsistency between emission trading systems and the carbon tax. i would like to say that, in the revision of the energy taxation directive, one of the objectives is precisely to deal with and tackle any possible inconsistency. two members raised the issue of possible border tax adjustments to prevent carbon leakage in case international negotiations fail. i would like to say that the main and priority goal of the commission is to reach a successful post-kyoto international agreement to address climate change. on the issue of tax on air kerosene, the issue has already been discussed with the member states. it proved to be a very sensitive issue and no progress was made. two member states apply a tax of this type, but i must point out that it also raises questions of international law. the commission does not intend to submit any proposal for such a tax. on the use of reduced vat rates to achieve environmental goals, the commission services are currently studying the issue. finally, i would like to say that a number of the comments made by honourable members fall within the work of different commissioners. i have taken note of all your comments and i shall convey them to the commissioners concerned. they will be analysed and taken into consideration in the follow-up action to the green paper.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. we have here a report on a very technical subject. so it is about what are called accounting standards in the european union, worldwide, especially for smes. so it may well be a subject which we are discussing in the european parliament now and which will not reach the economy and the people for a few years. then the answer will be, no one knows where they come from or who's responsible. no one knows why we should use them. the aim is to achieve uniform standards worldwide, particularly for companies with limited liability. we support that. and we hear the argument for this: we need high quality standards! this body claims to be the only one that can make high quality standards. but then when we have financial market turbulence, it's amazing that the very people who have always fought for this are now saying, is fair value the right approach? is market to market the right approach when you don't have a market anymore? then those who called the spirits themselves will ask if this is the right way. the responsibility for this lies with those who are in this private organization in london, and who are certainly setting standards in the hope that they will continue to do business in the future. the report i am putting to the vote today is therefore not just for smes, but it is a fundamental question: who makes what rules for whom and who controls them? on the one hand, we have the question of governance: how transparent is this organization? that is, how transparent is the funding? there are interests behind it. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has already taken a number of important decisions on the subject. they should at least be able to meet the transparency requirements they impose on market participants! so far, i have the impression that this particular organisation is fighting with all means to avoid any transparency. who decides the funding, the selection of personnel and the position? why is someone named? the balance between regions, the balance between sectors! we are doing ifrs for smes, and you ask yourself: who represents smes? who knows the middle class? and the third is: why are we even discussing ifrs for smes, the agenda, at this time? who's putting what on the agenda? commissioner mccreevy and sir tweedie were asked several times a number of years ago why we are doing this. now, after years, we know why we are discussing ifrs for smes in europe, because south africa and brazil have asked for it. that is a great answer, and we know very well that brazil and south africa are not the focus, but the european market, where there is a lot of money to be made if the smes had to introduce something like this. so this is the question of governance. there are some good first steps forward. but all these bodies that will be set up in the future will be measured by whether the people who will be part of this supervisory organisation and will have to give political answers - as a commissioner might - can also shape the future. it is not enough to take note of the relevant proposals. convergence is one of our objectives. we must be careful, however, that the interpretation of the sec does not allow the european hand to slip. we have enough experience in europe at the moment with the american stock exchange regulators. we should not be so blind as to leave the interpretation to the americans. that is why our demand is still ifrs as adopted in europe and not as adopted by the board. this affects small and mediumsized enterprises. i want to be clear: the issues at stake are too complex and too difficult. i warn you against taking the path of voluntary action. in bavaria, i have my bavarian suit on today they say: behind my back, because we know very well for all those who deny and accept this that in the future there will be ifrs for smes in the european market through the back door of some member states. the same people will say in the future: we need uniform standards. they will push these into the market accordingly, standards that are too complex, that nobody understands, that nobody wants, just from a purely market point of view. here, in the world, a minority wants to impose its will on the majority. this is unacceptable!
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs and in particular the rapporteur, mr radwan, for the considerable work that has gone into this comprehensive report. it raises important issues for the future development of european and indeed global capital markets. in this brief intervention i cannot address all the issues raised in the report. let me therefore focus on three points. one, governance issues; secondly the eu’s input to the international accounting standards board, the iasb; and thirdly the project to develop an accounting standard for small and medium-sized enterprises. on iasb governance, your report rightly highlights the fact that our shared objective is to develop high-quality global accounting standards. the eu’s decision to require listed companies to use international accounting standards was a bold and visionary step towards this objective. a single set of globally accepted accounting standards would provide significant benefits for our companies, our capital markets and our economy. we must continuously strive to ensure that international accounting standards remain relevant in the face of changing economic circumstances and that they represent the interests of all stakeholders in a balanced manner. to ensure that these conditions can continue to be met, progress should be made as a matter of priority in three areas. firstly, the accountability of the international accounting standards committee foundation (iascf), needs to be enhanced, in particular towards public authorities. the latter should play an active role in the selection and appointment of trustees. in this respect, the proposal that i, together with my counterparts in the us sec, the japanese fsa and the international organisation of securities commissions, made last november goes in the direction advocated by your report. secondly, we need to look at how the iasb’s agenda-setting process can be improved. in particular, the process through which priorities are set needs to be made more open and more transparent. thirdly, the iasb’s due process should be enhanced, mainly by ensuring that standards are subject to a full impact assessment before they are adopted. your report makes constructive suggestions about these and related points. the forthcoming review of the iascf’s constitution provides the opportunity to implement the necessary reforms. the committee will pursue them in consultation with this house, the member states and our international partners. now, turning to the eu’s input to the iasb. your report argues that the eu needs to strengthen its capacity to make its views on accounting matters heard at the international level. i agree. in particular we should seek means to ensure that the views of european stakeholders, especially proactive input to the iasb’s agenda-setting process, can be put to the iasb in a more timely and coherent manner. i see this as an evolutionary rather than a revolutionary process. we should build on the european financial reporting advisory group and i am ready to pursue this as a matter of urgency, including the possibility of using funding from the community budget to support such a structure. i must, however, sound a clear and unambiguous warning. this structure will in no circumstances become an embryonic european standard-setter, nor can there be any question of developing european interpretations of international accounting standards. europe must and will remain part of the movement towards a single set of globally accepted accounting standards. anything else would damage the international competitiveness of our companies and our capital market. turning now to the iasb’s project to develop an accounting standard for smes, let me begin by stating that the commission currently has no legal basis to endorse this standard. moreover, we have never made any commitment to take over whatever standard the iasb produces. we would only do so if we were genuinely convinced that the iasb produces a standard that meets the interests of european users. the iasb has not yet finalised its project. however, at this stage the commission’s views are clear. the current exposure draft published by the iasb remains too complex to provide a satisfactory accounting framework for european smes, especially for smaller companies. our focus remains the simplification of the regulatory environment for smes, including in the accounting area.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the ias system makes sense for large, publicly traded companies that operate globally. this is why parliament, on the basis of a proposal from the legal affairs committee, adopted the ias regulation in the last parliamentary term. the aim was indeed - as my colleague mr radwan has said - to achieve convergence in the end, at least with the united states and, if possible, worldwide. it makes no sense for small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not need the global financial markets, access to wall street and other things in general. in view of this, it is more than questionable why smes ifrs should be developed at all. in addition, and i think commissioner mccreevy has said this quite rightly, what is now on the table is nothing but a watered-down version of the already extremely complicated international standards which do not fit the structures of smes in europe. this is particularly the case where they are family businesses run by owners for generations, who have already written off land they own, where fair value valuations only create desirability and where, in the end, the structure of these companies is such as to jeopardise their future prospects. on the other hand, we must be realistic. there will also be a sort of pressure for harmonization in the long term on the question of standards among smes in europe. we want comparability, at least in the european single market. i therefore believe it is important that we give serious thought to the question of how we can develop european alternatives to the proposals from london, with the aim of achieving greater standardisation here too, but in a way that is appropriate and appropriate to smes, and that is oriented towards the long term rather than short-term evaluation. i would like to make one further comment on the ias bodies. there is a real problem here, and mr radwan has raised it. we may have a certain geographical balance, but we have no balance in terms of economic power. europe is by far the largest bloc, the largest area in the field of validity of ias rules. that is why we need a proper voice, and we are not to be compared with australia. australia is the size of a medium-sized state in the european union or a large region, such as north rhine-westphalia. we must find a better balance here.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank members for their comments. it was certainly a very wide-ranging debate with diversity of views on many of the issues and we have taken note of them. i would like to emphasise again that high-quality international accounting standards are crucial for the effective functioning of both the european and global capital markets. the process through which these standards are developed should therefore be subject to robust governance. it should be characterised by a high level of transparency and it should ensure a balanced consideration of stakeholder interests. the iascf and the iasb have over recent years implemented significant reforms of their internal procedures but i cannot deny that further improvements are necessary. moreover, i recognise that we in europe should better organise ourselves to guide and provide input to the iasb standard-setting process. in short, even if the iasb’s governance and due process were perfect, international accounting standards will only meet the needs of european stakeholders if their views are presented in a coherent, a convincing and a timely manner. nearly all speakers referred to the question of ifrss for smes and i repeat again that there is no legal basis for its endorsement in europe at present. if we were to do so, it would need codecision with the european parliament. can i just repeat, as i have said many times about ifrss for smes, when the iasb was going about this particular work i made it quite clear in a number of speeches that they should not assume that there was going to be automatic endorsement from the eu for this particular project. we would only recommend it if it was simple and effective and met the needs of smes. they were told that when they were doing their work. their first exposure draft has been presented. i then took the opportunity of telling them that it did not meet those criteria and in the present state of affairs i could not possibly even consider recommending it for smes because it was neither simple nor effective. that remains my position but, in line with what others have said and mr purvis in particular, it would probably be a good thing if there was a simple effective ifrs for smes – but only on that particular basis. the idea is a good one. i do not want to knock the idea at all, but i am not going to endorse now or in the future anything for smes that is just more complex and which no one understands. it is not needed. i take this opportunity of repeating again in parliament what i have said on many occasions about this. ms van den burg mentioned the question of xbrl. we are working with the securities regulator to get consensus on the technical standards for business data and as a result of this dialogue the commission may take further measures aiming at interoperability of regulatory information systems. xbrl could allow investors to take full advantage of ifrs. any steps towards requiring the use of xbrl in the european union should be subject to a thorough impact analysis, including the economic assessment of costs and benefits. i have also discussed the matter with the sec chairman, mr chris cox, during my recent visit to the united states and i support keeping this agenda point in our regulatory dialogue with the us authorities for the future. these standards will need to be internationally accepted, technologically independent and interoperable. it is a very exciting development and i know ms van den burg has recently had exposure to all this. i took the same opportunity myself some months ago – getting experts to show me how it actually works. i think it is something that is quite revolutionary and something to be welcomed, but we will not do anything about it just yet until we have done other work. mr mitchell made an interesting point. i think the importance of what he said was that we do not want the iasb to come and say ‘an eu body or any other body’. we want to be an internationally accepted body – because this goal is well worth pursuing – and it needs to be an independent body. i think that should be taken as read, but with proper input from the various stakeholders. may i remind everybody in the european union that it was the eu which gave the iasb such importance. we were the largest jurisdiction to say as from 2005 that the ifrs would become the rule for listed companies. it was some years ago that this decision was made, together with the european parliament, and that in itself gave greater importance to the iasb and to the process. i would say – and i have said this repeatedly to the iasb also – that road testing – you can call it impact analysis – should be done before standards are adopted, particularly by the iasb, and with input from the eu and other bodies as well. we should not be waiting until the standards are endorsed by the iasb. we had the job here of either agreeing to them or rejecting them. we do not have the role of changing them. i think that they should be road tested enough beforehand to see if there are going to be problems, rather than finding out about serious problems after the whole iasb process has been gone through. we made this point repeatedly to the iasb. hopefully, i think the new governance structures have been appreciated by most of us. i accept that more work needs to be done in this particular area but that will lead to fewer problems in the future. hopefully we will arrive some day at a situation where these things will be more or less automatic and not cause any great headaches for anybody because all the work will have been done previously. we will not have difficulties then.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am grateful to the rapporteur for the debate which has supported the main thrust of this report and has presented various variations. i would like to make two points. we certainly agree on one point - he has been quoted many times today by those who strongly support this whole development: the reason why this ifrs organization is now moving on, for example, governance issues is because this house, the european parliament, and the european union are putting pressure on. i am not saying that the european parliament should be a political body, but i am saying that it should be a political body, and i am not saying that it should be a political body, but i am saying that it should be a political body. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i can only guess that all those who in future will have to report to parliaments on why they have voted for or against a point will also ensure that they can take responsibility and shape it. that's the first point. the lack of seriousness of the impact assessments is shown by recent discussions in which the ifrs organization still refuses to do them. but now for the sme standards: i am addressing all those who think we should do it voluntarily. i'm quoting john purvis here. john, that's for you! i'm quoting someone who's independent. it's peter holgate from the financial times germany, a partner at pricewaterhousecoopers. he said: 'i don't take the european position all that seriously. even if they end up not endorsing it, various countries could adopt it in their national generally accepted accounting principles. if a few major players do that you have it brought in by a different door even if the ec doesn't want to play ball. in the end, this means that they expect to have it - if some countries adopt it accordingly - through the back door mandatory throughout the european union. that's the strategy of this organization. pricewaterhousecoopers has already announced that they see this as a business model. that is why we need a european standard for smes which can build on ifrs if it is good. and if it's bad, we make our own standard. it is the commission's responsibility to ensure that standards which nobody wants and which would then be binding on everyone are not introduced by the back door.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would ask that the term 'better regulation' be replaced by the three words 'independent impact assessment'. that was in the original wording, but it was lost for reasons i don't know. the oral amendment has been voted on with the other groups, as i have been told.
in writing. - i shall vote against this report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation of the small and mediumsized enterprises in the community. i have a different understanding of the market economy than the intellectual property that is here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in ancient rhodesia, there was a tourist poster that said, "come to rhodesia and see the ruins of zimbabwe". later, there was the controversial joke: "come to zimbabwe and see the ruins of rhodesia". today, you can say, "come to zimbabwe and see the ruins of zimbabwe", not the famous building, but the ruins of the hope for prosperity and democracy. i believe that we as the european union have an obligation to use the current situation, in which the opposition, despite the manipulation, has at least achieved a great victory through its courage, to promote democracy and the rule of law in this important african country. the people there have suffered enough. but we must support them in a way that cannot be construed as neo-colonialism. that is why it is important that we also have the support of the neighbouring countries and the people themselves. that is why i welcome the first moves of the african national congress in the right direction. but he has to do more! i therefore particularly welcome the exemplary courage of the dock workers. we must make it quite clear that it is a joint task of the european union, the african union and the forces in southern africa to ensure that the opportunity which has now arisen after the elections is seized. mr mugabe has his place in history and he can only lose it more with each passing day.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not this magnificent house in strasbourg is named after louise weiss, who, in democratically enlightened france between the wars, had problems with the police and the judiciary because she stood up for women's suffrage. of course, this cannot be compared with the totalitarian dictatorship in iran, but it should teach us europeans a lesson in humility. iran is an unacceptable totalitarian regime, but it is a large, diverse country, with a growing number of reformist forces. the initiators of this petition are among the reformists whom we must support, and they now reach even the khomeini family. there are now more women in politics, in administration, in science in iran than in most islamic and asian countries. this is contrary to the cliché, but it is reality. we must use this diversity of iran to finally bring down the unacceptable, totalitarian rule there. we europeans are faced with a huge challenge here. i am therefore grateful to mr deiss for helping me on monday to ensure that this important item remained on the agenda. because, ladies and gentlemen, we must make iran one of the priorities of our work, of the human rights work of this house!
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 24 april 2008.
i am not going to go into detail. we are all aware of the terrible consequences of the tropical cyclone nargis which struck burma/myanmar last saturday. a tragedy that has left tens of thousands dead, hundreds of thousands homeless, and destroyed infrastructure in the most populous areas of the country. it is a disaster unprecedented in that country, and the full extent of the loss of life and damage is not yet known. the military junta that rules the country has obviously failed to handle the situation properly. neither preventive measures were guaranteed nor was adequate support provided to the population in a timely manner. the postponement of the constitutional referendum in the cyclone-hit rangoon and irrawaddy delta regions to 24 may is welcome, but it must be extended to the whole country to reflect the government's concern for its own people by focusing on humanitarian emergency response with swift action. the authorities have indicated that they would welcome international support. this should be seen as a positive gesture and we expect the government to facilitate the implementation of international aid measures. the european union has already begun to provide emergency aid and during our next plenary session in strasbourg we will hear the report from the european commission on the humanitarian aid provided and the conditions under which it is provided in that country. the people of burma/myanmar deserve our deeply felt solidarity. i would therefore like to express this on behalf of the european parliament and in all sincerity and add that at the same time we are thinking of our sakharov prize winner, aung san suu kyi. we are in solidarity with her and call for her release so that she can fight for the freedom and democracy of her people.
given that the oral question to the council on the deception by address book companies cannot be dealt with until after 8 p.m. and the council cannot be present at that time, which is of course regrettable - that is not stated here, but i will add it - it is requested that the oral question be postponed to a later part-session.
i understand what you're saying. otherwise the slovenian presidency is always very helpful, but unfortunately the situation today is as you rightly complain. so we agree that we will deal with that in the next session. (the agenda is therefore adopted.) further amendments to the agenda: see minutes.
the next item is the commission communication on the commission report on the first ten years of economic and monetary union.
member of the commission. - thank you very much, mr. president. ladies and gentlemen, we are celebrating the 10th anniversary of the historic decision to introduce the euro, to launch the third stage of economic and monetary union, which was adopted by the european council on 1 and 3 may 1998. this decision has shaped the european union's development over the past ten years. today, inside and outside our borders, the euro is a symbol of european integration used daily by 320 million european citizens. the commission has seen that, at the end of this first decade of a major political initiative and after a full economic cycle, it was worthwhile to take stock and reflect on the challenges facing economic and monetary union in the years ahead. that is the purpose of the communication adopted this morning by the commission and which i have the honour to present to you. the communication is based on a comprehensive report by the commission's directorate-general for ecfin, which analyses in detail the functioning of economic and monetary union and the effects of the euro over the past ten years, and also analyses the prospects for the future. the conclusion of this evaluation of the euro's first decade of existence could not be clearer: the euro is an undeniable economic and political success. thanks to the euro, europeans today enjoy greater macroeconomic stability, lower interest rates, much more moderate price developments than in previous decades, despite what we are seeing lately with inflation. thanks to the euro, the european union - and in particular the 15 countries of the euro area - is a much more economically integrated area, with greater trade, greater opportunities, more employment and more efficient markets. thanks to the euro, our economies are better protected against external shocks and have gained weight and influence on global markets. all this has resulted in many tangible benefits, but the greatest of them all, if i may quote, has been that in the last ten years 16 million jobs have been created in the euro area. the euro has made europe stronger today. it is better able to cope with the turbulence and crises that we have experienced in recent months, and thanks to the euro we have a stronger basis for sustaining our growth and our social protection model in the future. but, positive as our assessment may be, it does not mean that all the hopes we had for the single currency ten years ago have been fulfilled. firstly, economic growth over the last ten years has been below our expectations at the time. secondly, divergences between the economies of the area still persist, as a consequence, inter alia, of the lack of sufficient incentives to undertake all the necessary structural reforms. thirdly, we have not yet articulated in the euro area a strong and homogeneous external presence that would allow us to weigh globally in accordance with the size and importance of our economy and our currency. finally, the public image of the euro - a currency that is broadly identified with the image of the european union - does not reflect all the objective benefits it has brought to our citizens. this diagnosis is enough to make us think about what remains to be done, and our conclusion is that much remains to be done. but we must also take account of the new challenges that we are facing in these years, with an enlarged europe, with the acceleration of social, economic and technological changes, with underlying trends as profound as globalisation, ageing or climate change; we must update the foundations and the vision that inspire the project of economic and monetary union. it is obvious that the new context in which we live today was not easily foreseeable twenty years ago, when it was decided what was to be included in the maastricht treaty, or ten years ago, when it was decided to launch the third phase of economic and monetary union. we must now work on the basis of these parameters to achieve a stronger economic and monetary union, with a more efficient internal operation and a more homogeneous external projection. in the communication we adopted this morning, the commission does not want to simply take stock of the past, but we propose to open a debate on what needs to be improved in the future. as an initial contribution to that debate we propose an agenda based on three pillars. the first concerns the internal functioning of the union. the interdependence between the economies of the area is greater than ever; we must be aware of this and move decisively, in the interests of the economic and monetary union as a whole and of each of its member states in particular, towards a real coordination of their economic policies. how can we do that? the budgetary surveillance regulated in the stability and growth pact should be deepened by broadening that surveillance, by deepening it in relation to the quality of public finances or their long-term sustainability, by broadening the scope of surveillance to macroeconomic aspects beyond strictly budgetary ones, and by establishing a closer link between budgetary surveillance and the development of structural reforms. the second pillar concerns the external agenda. the euro has become - and this is a pleasure for all of us - the second world currency of reference in a very short time. but it is pointless, while we welcome the euro's pre-eminent position on global markets, to renounce our collective action in a way consistent with this new status. the position achieved by the euro on international markets brings with it undoubted advantages, such as greater protection against external shocks. in the last decade we have experienced critical moments in which this protective role has been put to the test. but the status of the euro also carries with it responsibilities and risks. europe must take full responsibility for achieving greater global economic stability. to do this, it must define a strategy that is in line with the interests of the euro area and defend it consistently abroad, and there is no doubt that the best way to ensure that consistency is through a single representation of the euro abroad. although i know that it is difficult to achieve in the short term, given the interests at stake, i also assert to this parliament - and i know that parliament agrees with my view - that it is a strictly necessary objective. finally, the third pillar of our agenda for the future is the improvement of the governance of economic and monetary union. the institutions and instruments governing this union are appropriate, especially when we take into account the improvements introduced by the treaty of lisbon. the question now is not to change the instruments, but to use them, and to use them fully. the best governance of the euro area will come from a full partnership of the ecofin council in matters of economic and monetary union; it will come from a deepening of the agenda and discussions of the eurogroup, in particular as regards the coordination of economic policies to which i have referred; and it will come from an even closer dialogue between the commission and parliament, as well as between the eurogroup and parliament. in the next few years, the composition of the eurogroup will also be brought closer and closer to that of the ecofin council itself. this morning, without going any further, the commission adopted the convergence report paving the way for slovakia to join the euro area on 1 january 2009. in the coming weeks i shall have the opportunity to discuss this report and the related proposals with the honourable members. it should also be a collective concern of our institutions to communicate to the public the issues related to economic and monetary union, so that the public's perception of the euro is in line with the objective advantages it brings to us as citizens who have this currency in our pockets. i'll finish up now, mr. president. we have a matter of paramount importance on the table which fully deserves this first debate we are having today. i cannot, of course, go into all the details of the analysis contained in our communication and in the report, but you can count on my full availability to discuss it in the coming months. the commission's objective, as i have said, is to build a strong political consensus on the steps to be taken to ensure that economic and monetary union can meet the enormous challenges that lie ahead. these and not others are the questions which we feel should be given our attention in the debate which is opening up today. the people who drew up the maastricht treaty and decided to set up economic and monetary union ten years ago were then up to the task, creating an instrument which has brought us protection and benefits. the hard part is done: the euro is here and it is a success. we can therefore face the new stage with confidence and optimism, but we must also do so with the same determination and with the understanding that what benefits economic and monetary union benefits the european union as a whole, all its member states and all its citizens. thank you very much, mr. president.
thank you, commissioner, and i want to thank you for your responsible and great engagement.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would like to congratulate commissioner almunia for having the courage to present proposals for improvement on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the eurozone. we shall be examining these proposals in depth, but from what we know so far, i can say that our group will largely agree with their proposals. we want to improve conditions, but we do not want to do what our colleagues in the socialist group want, namely to set up a kind of economic government. you have our full support on this matter. ten years of the euro also means taking stock of what has happened in those ten years. we have seen that this euro has become a tremendous success. no one predicted that today, ten years after the political decision, the euro would be the second most important reserve currency in the world. they have pointed to jobs, low inflation, convergence of budgets, and the successes that have made it possible for the euro to become a stabilizing anchor for europe in times of globalisation. if we think about why we are better able to cope with commodity and energy prices, this is also a question that the euro has answered excellently. despite the scepticism of many citizens in the european union and the euro area, i am fully convinced that it was the right thing to introduce the euro at that time under these strict conditions. if we are to modify the conditions, commissioner, you have us on your side and i can only say in retrospect: you've made a lot of courageous decisions in the past. i think of lithuania, and i see slovakia now, and i wonder if the same courage was still there. the nominal criteria may be correct in slovakia, but the sustainability of real convergence, in terms of a sustained rate of inflation, is in doubt. we will have to discuss this, the european central bank has expressed its reservations in its first preliminary opinion. unfortunately, we do not find any mention of this in the commission's decision today. maybe we really need to talk about this. the procedure is that you propose to join the euro, we are consulted, as is the council of heads of state and government, and then the ecofin council has to decide. we have therefore no possibility at this stage of delaying or rejecting this accession. but i am concerned that today conditions are being created for a medium-sized country with a clearly industrial structure which will lead to discounts later on when the larger countries want to join, which we will then be unable to account for. this is the concern we share when we express reservations about this unconditional accession, including the existing reservations, such as the european central bank. we must not forget that the current strength of the euro as a world currency is also the result of a weak dollar, it is not all its own strength. i can only say that the member states are called upon to do so, as we discussed the reform of the stability and growth pact. you have just mentioned this in your three-point agenda: member states are required to respect the conditions they themselves have signed up to. i am somewhat concerned that you have now closed the deficit procedure against italy and other countries as well. the data are in line with this, but i am looking at developments in france, italy and, in the coming years, also in spain with some concern. at the beginning of this decade, germany was the biggest offender. the germans have now succeeded, but the stability of the euro will depend on the solidarity and the solidity of the larger member states. that is why i am calling on you as commissioner to remain firm on these special requests and to ensure that all reforms do not focus on external representation, that they do not focus on who represents whom where, but on the internal stability of the euro area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. then, together, we will say in twenty years' time that this euro is the anchor of europe's stability in the world and the basis for europe's prosperity and progress.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the past, there have been various attempts by politically sovereign states to create a common monetary union. these trials have lasted for different periods of time. in the end, they all failed. it was therefore not surprising that in the 1970s the outside world reacted very critically to proposals to start such an initiative in europe. pierre werner, the former prime minister of luxembourg, and also valéry giscard d'estaing and helmut schmidt, when they were state secretaries in the ministry of finance, have presented attempts in this direction. even in the early 1990s, the move towards economic and monetary union was viewed very critically. many experts - including nobel prize winners from america - have dismissed it as unrealistic. against all expectations, the euro was finally introduced and it was a success. the european economic union is indeed something of a small political miracle, and it is a case sui generis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the introduction of the euro has, however, been greeted with great scepticism by the population of many countries. if there had been a referendum in the first 12 member states of the euro zone, we would not have the euro today, at least not in these many countries. however, the public is now somewhat more positive about the euro. i am sure it is not 100% yet, but it is probably a majority. the sometimes melancholy memories of the old currencies - whether the mark, the guilder, the schilling or the franc - have largely given way to the conviction that the introduction of the euro is also beneficial for the individual citizen, not just for the economy as a whole. the citizens themselves are the first to feel this when they travel: there are no longer any passport controls in the schengen area and the costly and tedious exchange of money is gone. but a large number of citizens have also understood that without the european central bank and the single currency we would not be able to cope with the financial crisis we are facing as well as we are at present. the effects of the strong currency were also somewhat dampened by the rise in commodity prices. nevertheless, there is still a section of the public which has had a negative experience of the euro. in particular, price increases are often attributed to the teuro in english it would be: to expensive euro . the fact is that the euro is stable! it has proven to be a stable currency. the inflation rate in recent years has been lower than in previous decades. and this is true even in countries as stable as germany. this stability has helped the euro to gain international importance and to become the second most important international reserve currency after the dollar. the stability of the euro is due to the independence of the central bank, and it is therefore incomprehensible that this independence is constantly being undermined. the first presidents, wim duisenberg and jean-claude trichet, have done an excellent job in this respect. the fact remains that a common currency without a common fiscal and economic policy is and will remain a risky undertaking. the eu faces major challenges: persistently high unemployment, demographic change, migratory pressures, increasing poverty among some groups and increased competition as a result of globalisation. the euro area can only meet this challenge if the economic policies of the member states are more closely interlinked. the appointment of a president of the euro zone was a first step in this direction, but only a first. there must be more to follow. the eurozone must above all act in a uniform way internationally. this is also true of organizations such as the international monetary fund and the oecd.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on 5 june. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the commission statement on the transatlantic economic council.
i have to say, madam president, i must say that i am very surprised by what mr wojciechowski has just said about germany and the disruption that germany represents in the european fabric. i've always seen it differently. i think it is very strange that something like this should be said here in the european parliament. commissioner verheugen, i think you have addressed the most important points. one thing you have not mentioned is how difficult the negotiations will be this time. the transatlantic economic council is still a very young baby, and the expectations are of course very high. there is a lot on the agenda and i personally think that a healthy realism would be appropriate because there are some players who are simply overloading this council with a lot of issues - including very difficult psychological issues, such as the chicken issue. my personal recommendation would be to be a little more realistic and perhaps to put less on the agenda. mr wiersma also pointed out that we are having a difficult political year on the american side. but we're going to have a tough year, too, and it's already starting. many are in the midst of a primary election campaign and must ensure their own re-election, and from next year we will also have a different parliament and a different commission, so it will be good to maintain this realism on both sides in order not to find ourselves in a difficult situation, as we have often had. we should never forget why we did what we did. we did it to better understand what the integration of the two markets means, which we do not want to create but which we already have today. mrs neyts-uyttebroeck was right to refer to the figures. what we would like to do more - and that was the aim - is to remove the barriers that we can remove. we can't eliminate all of them, some of them we'll have to live with. we also live with barriers in the european market, which we cannot all remove, but the world does not collapse. the only thing that needs to be done is to remove the barriers that are possible, that are not acceptable, that are not acceptable to consumers, that create more jobs and are irrational. there are barriers that are crazy -- you just have to go to small businesses that tell you these are totally crazy barriers -- there are many that are nonsensical, and we should eliminate them. i hope that the commission and parliament will continue to work together in this way. many problems arise in parliament or have to be solved in parliament. so thank you for your close cooperation and good luck with the next meeting.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. europe has made great progress in recent years towards a common market. however, there are still markets today which are only gradually opening up within the european union, for example in the financial services sector, where we do not yet have a truly common european market, and in the automobile sector, where we do have a common market within europe but have stopped halfway in the transatlantic area. progress has also been made towards a common market in the field of security and defence. the first step in this direction was the creation of the european defence agency, followed by the decision to allocate eur 1.4 billion for security research in the seventh framework programme. the most important step along this road, however, is the commission's present proposals for directives, firstly on procurement in the field of security and defence, and secondly on the intra-community movement of defence equipment. these are crucial steps towards a common european defence market. but what about the transatlantic market in this area? there are two important changes here. one is evident from the recent decision by the united states to buy tanker aircraft from a european company. secondly, the proposals for directives that the european commission has put forward on the procurement of defence equipment will not include a 'buy european' scheme comparable to the existing 'buy american' scheme. the point is to provide the best possible equipment for our armed forces. the european union and nato must engage in an intensive dialogue on this issue. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. that is why this question must also be discussed in the transatlantic economic council - this time or perhaps at a later date.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i can only welcome, commissioner, that you are finally bringing european social policy out of the waiting loop. because it's about time. it was clear that the negotiations between the european trade unions and the european employers' federation were doomed to failure if one side rejected a revision in principle. the delay by the commission in this key legislative project leaves people with the impression that the commission is only promoting a liberal single market model and is doing nothing for the social europe model. it is not enough to talk about a social europe, but the people on the ground want to see action. it has long been clear that the minimum number of 1000 employees is far too high to represent even enough employees for the constantly changing management of companies across european borders. it is also clear that european works councils cannot effectively carry out their representative role if they are informed too late and are not consulted before mergers and divestments or partial divestments. if the commission is convinced that the danish flexicurity model is so well suited to the european employment strategy, it must also ensure that the conditions for the danish labour market model are created at european level, namely effective representation of workers. the commission must also strengthen trade union rights under the revised directive on works councils. furthermore, the commission should ensure that all undertakings covered by the workers' councils directive also form european works councils, as part of the transparency initiative and the enterprise code. i can only speak of my own country: of the companies based in germany which were required to form works councils, only 30% have formed works councils. it is not possible that in practice the failure to comply with european labour law will not have consequences. the commission is really called upon to do this.
the commission has already done so. for this commission, social europe seems to be nothing more than a rhetorical statement. the fact that we still have no proposal for the reform of the works councils is their responsibility. the commission and no one else is trampling on the etuc's declaration that it does not want to engage in sham negotiations with business europe. you're setting up a whole new set of rules here. article 138 of the treaty does not provide for a third stage of the hearing. there's never been anything like it. the commission's tactic is obvious: it is a game of time. is the commission really giving the employers another knee? in principle, a substantial reform of the works councils is probably not wanted, certainly not until the next european elections. i would remind you that jacques delors presented us with a proposal two weeks after the employers' refusal to negotiate. you could have done the same as commissioner. the end of june is far too late, not to mention that a 'proposition équilibrée' is something else.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, in your reply which is coming now, could you make it clear that when we talk about 65 to 35 the 65% will not be abolished, but that the firms will receive this money. if, after this division, 35% of the cotton is not grown, it is more interesting to take only 65% and grow something else, or perhaps not grow anything at all, because 35% is not enough to make the production costs so that cotton can be included at the prices paid by industry. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i think that we should also talk to the industry about whether they are not able to pay the farmers a fair price for this cotton, so that it is worth growing. the important thing is that the 65% that is decoupled here continues to be paid to the producers, whether they grow or not. this is the decoupling system. i think that there is a bit of confusion in the debates that have taken place here.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. the starting point is as follows: the european parliament's powers have been considerably increased once again by the treaty of lisbon. in view of this increase in competence, it is particularly important to analyse the legislative process in detail once again. and we find that in this context the representatives of interests - also known as lobbyists - in brussels also play a very important role. we estimate that up to 15 000 interest representatives are working in brussels, and 5 000 are registered with the european parliament alone. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european lobbying network. parliament has been keeping a quasi-mandatory list with a very precise code of conduct since 1996. the question now is whether the same can be achieved for all the institutions of the european union. the content of the report which is now before the house is therefore: more transparency, i.e. precise information on who, how and where lobbied, as representatives of interests, in the legislative process. secondly, the setting of ethical or moral standards on how this should be done. thirdly, the independence of the political decision-making processes in parliament and the commission must be safeguarded. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives. the report introduces the following new elements to the existing situation: firstly, a relatively broad definition of what lobbying is or is, namely the permanent influence on decision-making processes in the institutions. secondly, the introduction of a so-called legislative footprint is new. this would mean that when a new directive is discussed and adopted in a parliamentary committee, the committee secretariat would then attach a page listing which associations took part in the discussion, whether in a public hearing or in other meetings. this list is also intended to help the interest groups themselves to see who was involved and who did not want to or could not participate. thirdly, we are seeking a common register. it remains to be seen whether the commission and parliament will actually come to an agreement. we're going to set up a working group to look into this. it would of course be easier for all lobbyists to register in one place where they sign a contract to comply with the rules of the game. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in any case, the lists must be networked so that it is also easy to get into them bureaucratically. there is also a requirement in paragraph 21 for some financial disclosure which would be entirely new. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not affected by the failure of the member states to comply with the rules. the greens came up with the idea of creating a blacklist here. it seems to me very much like a pranger in the middle ages. blacklists are really not appropriate in a democratic state. it must be of such high prestige that a reputable association would like its name to appear in the official register of the european institutions. to some extent, that must be honorable and desirable. not only because you get a badge for the house, but it must be desirable to appear there as a valued and helpful interlocutor in the reputable list. the penalty would be that the association would be removed from the list for misconduct and his id card would be taken. yes, i'll make it as short as possible. it's also important that lobbyists are not church parties. i am very disappointed with amendment no 3. the liberal group's 'woman in the field' says that churches should become lobbyists. that would be contrary to everything we have decided in this house. the churches are contractual partners of our bodies, but not lobbyists. in my view, a great step has been taken towards greater transparency, more correctness and clarity. i hope and wish that we too will set a worldwide example and set a standard of how serious lobbying can and should be treated.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not of course, lobbyists are not bowsmen. it is of course legitimate in a living democracy for the most diverse groups of society to represent their own interests and concerns and to participate in social processes. it is equally legitimate for them to bring their interests to the man or woman where decisions are prepared and made. finally, as legislators, we have a duty to make sure that we are as fully and precisely informed as possible about any legislative proposal before we decide to adopt it, and to take account of the concerns of those concerned, with all their conflicting views. but it is also clear that fair representation of interests requires transparency. this is a central question for the credibility of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we owe it to the citizens to demonstrate clearly and unequivocally that the european institutions are not the agents of the dark. this is why eu lobbyists must publicly identify their clients and objectives, and above all their financial interests.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. nevertheless, the longer the esteemed mrs lulling has been speaking, the more points of attack she has offered. we in the committee are already of the opinion that we want a common system in brussels because the citizens outside do not distinguish between parliament, the commission and the council. this is brussels, this is the eu! i think a common system would be good. and, mr kallas, we are calling on you to speed up the work of the working group after today and to come to common rules, which will then still leave the necessary autonomy to the respective institutions to take decisions on their own. i want the council to be involved. the council is a legislative body like us and of course it has this lobbying in its ranks. the council is therefore invited to take part in this operation. we want to see a new system of transparency, a new culture of transparency in brussels, and thus demonstrate openness and create trust. lobbying is good, representation of interests is allowed, but the rules must be clear. it must be fair, it must be true, and above all, opinions must not be bought. the commission has already taken a number of important decisions, including the adoption of the new directive on the protection of the environment. we have taken a very broad view in the report: anyone who wants to influence us! there are exceptions, however. the municipalities, the regions, the social partners, the political parties - all these are institutions that are enshrined in the treaties. they lobby, but they're not called lobbyists in our system. we shall have to look for the lines of demarcation here with the lawyers and also with the churches. these are open questions that have yet to be settled. i think financial disclosure is important, mrs lulling. this is the new step forward, which we have not had before. money is not everything, but money does a lot. and the work begins! i thank mr stubb and mr friedrich and all those who have taken part so far.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the debate about lobbying is always interesting and exciting. i enjoyed very much hearing the observations of the honourable members, which reflect the understanding which was also mentioned here by mr leinen: the devil is always in the details. i totally agree with mrs frassoni that work will not be finished with this report or even with the opening of the commission’s registers. i can assure parliament that we are very cooperative and we are doing everything we can to start this interinstitutional group and to work out a common approach as soon and as smoothly as possible. i would like to say that, in my view, this common register is not some kind of heavy animal which will threaten everybody. it is a common package of information, common storage of all necessary information so that all interested representatives do not need to submit different applications to different institutions, with these applications not being interoperable. this was your suggestion for how not to create a burden. but all other details have been discussed over the years since we started our debate about this in 2005. i shall only say – in answer to one point you raised – that there are, of course, a lot of complicated details in defining who is lobbying and on what subject. in our discussions we have met lawyers’ organisations. they have accepted our approach that, when and if they are really acting as lobbyists, then they must declare this as lobbying and they have no need to declare their activities as legal advisers or something like that. there is just one thing that i must say in connection with what was raised: the issue that some people are working in the commission and receiving salaries from the private sector. this is finished. we have still some finished contracts, but this practice has ended.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. thank you for the largely knowledgeable and enlightened discussion. serious, transparent lobbying helps to increase the efficiency of decision-making. mr turmes, you did not answer correctly. the financial disclosure is in paragraph 21, so they have attacked the socialist group incorrectly, i have to say that. secondly, as far as lawyers are concerned, you cannot just say that every lawyer is a lobbyist because he went to law school. it says in concrete terms that anyone who wants to influence politics permanently is a lobbyist, even if he is a lawyer. a translation error has occurred: 'communes' has been translated as 'cities'. the american system is detailed, but it is so detailed that some senators turn in 300 pages at the end of the year and no one can see what lobbying is really doing in the united states. what was interesting to me was that the far-left and far-right met in the fundamentalist critique. the french say "les extrêmes se touchent". we want a serious solution that is better than america's, and better than most or all of the states. thank you again to mr stubb dear minister, we are thinking of you! thank you for the serious discussion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to begin by congratulating mr mavrommatis on the good report and his excellent cooperation with all the colleagues who were interested in it, and there were many of them. sport is playing a bigger role than has been recognised in the eu commission and council. i would like to say that this white paper and its report are a good basis for all future activities and policies in the field of sport, also in view of the fact that in the treaty of lisbon sport finally finds its legal basis. the report and the white paper seek to strike a balance between competing interests, different sports, amateur and professional sports, between the specificities of sport and the requirements of eu legislation, between social and cultural interests and financial and economic interests, between profit and voluntary activity in these fields. so i think there has been an attempt that deserves to be really appreciated. it offers the chance to promote and maintain the european model of sport. the specific nature of sports organisations, which are highly autonomous and want to work, is thus preserved, especially since they are based on volunteer work. secondly, that we try to promote the support and application of self-regulatory mechanisms at national and european level - i am reminded of article 16, which is very important to me. thirdly, the report provides more legal certainty with regard to the application of eu legislation to sport. fourthly, the role of sport in education has been raised more frequently in this debate. i would like to remind you of my report from 2004 on the role of sport in education. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ten years ago, in my report on the role of sport in the european union, we called for a white paper. i am glad that we can vote on this today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not know which rule i should be referring to, but i will do so anyway. i would ask you to inform the bureau that, at least for me personally - and i know i am also speaking for my colleagues in the group - the situation that exists here is absolutely unacceptable. it's not possible that a speaker can't be heard even through the headphones. that is absolutely impossible! neither the speech of commissioner špidla nor the remarks of mr mavrommatis were understood even approximately. i think that's totally inappropriate! i therefore ask you in the bureau to ensure that there is at least five minutes between the vote and the end of the debate, because it is unreasonable to accept what is happening in this chamber. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, we have forgotten in our discussions on the joint motion for a resolution, which took place on monday in an intergroup context, that the imf recommendations on the financial crisis are now available and that the issue now is their implementation. i would therefore recommend that we - and i hope that we can get the house's agreement here - add the following wording to the text: 'to the implementation by both parties of the conclusions'. then we'll continue in the text. otherwise, nothing changes at all. to the implementation by both parties of the conclusions. and then we'll continue in the text. otherwise, nothing changes at all.
i have to say, madam president, in consultation with the two rapporteurs, i propose the following addition: 'pays tribute to the participation of observers from third countries, such as switzerland, norway and canada, in eu electoral observation missions'. the people concerned asked for it, and i think that motivates them to participate again next time.
madam president, on behalf of my group i would ask for a roll-call vote on amendment no 1 and on part two of the separate vote on amendment no 11.
i have to say, madam president, i voted for the marco cappato report because it deals with one of the most important functions of the european parliament, namely the control of the council and the commission in matters of human rights policy. the european union's role as the guardian of human rights worldwide is thus strengthened. the systematic evaluation of the relevant instruments in the subcommittee on human rights and the involvement of parliament in the human rights dialogues of the european union are essential for this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is the only way to win credibility against double standards.
in writing. - why i did not vote for the motion for a resolution on the human rights report. the report contains a number of points which are worth supporting. yet it completely ignores the lack of social and economic rights in much of the world, with the result that millions of people are starving or homeless and unemployed. it reduces human rights to civil liberties and ignores the principle of indivisibility of human rights as stated in the un charter; the report does not address human rights violations committed or supported by eu member states. however, in order to avoid hypocrisy, the eu must investigate and clarify human rights violations committed in third countries or against third country nationals with the participation or support of eu member states; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the context of the directive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. with the lisbon treaty and the announcements in connection with the french presidency of the council in the second half of 2008, further eu military missions are to be expected; human rights must not be used for these purposes. that reference is not in the report.
in writing. - i did not vote for the human rights report for the following reasons: the european union is the only institution in the world which has the power to make such a decision. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of human rights. the fact that millions of people are deprived of their most basic rights, that they have less and less food available to them - also because of the highly problematic policies of the eu - that hunger, disease, lack of housing are cruel realities, that education is inaccessible to many, that the rights of workers are trampled underfoot - all this is largely hidden. 2. human rights violations occurring within the eu itself and in which the eu is involved worldwide, including through its military and arms policy and its ever-expanding military missions, are not named. human rights violations are only criticized from the outside, and one's own failings and responsibilities are ignored. the internal and external consequences of neoliberal eu policies, with their negative consequences for fundamental and human rights, are not mentioned. the report is very selective in its criticism, as is shown by the selection of countries criticised and the extent of the criticisms made. however, human rights policy cannot be based on the principle of politically motivated arbitrariness if it is to be credible.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 8 may 2008.
i am not going to go into detail. last wednesday, 14 may 2008, the terrorist group eta carried out another attack in spain. a member of the guardia civil, juan manuel piñuel, was killed by a car bomb outside the police station in legutiano, álava. the european parliament condemns in the strongest terms this abominable murder and the abominable act which led to the wounding of the guards. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express our deepest sympathy and condolences to the families of the victims. i would also like to express our solidarity with the spanish people, its authorities, democratic institutions and security forces. i'd like to ask you to observe a moment of silence in memory of the murdered police officer. (parliament adopted the resolution)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you know that since 1979 all european elections have always taken place on the second or third weekend in june. i would like to ask who decided when to postpone the european elections for the first time to the first weekend in june next year.
- i'm not going to. we will take note of your comments and will then give you an appropriate reply.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 15 may 2008, pursuant to rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. once a year - and surprisingly in may - the committees all meet in strasbourg. there is no objective reason for this. and so it is that committees are meeting tonight, while at the same time their subjects are on the agenda of parliament. this is an untenable situation! the only solution is that the committees meet in strasbourg and that we move the plenary to brussels to resolve this conflict. but seriously, it is untenable to the extent that, especially in the last two years, committees have been meeting here in strasbourg, while we have plenary sessions and group meetings, despite all the explanations that this should not take place. now we even have a cooling off period. there is no practical need to let the committees clash with the work of the plenary here in strasbourg. i would be grateful if you would make a serious effort to do so with all your resources. (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, mr. nassauer. i shall put this fact which you have brought to the attention of the conference of presidents and i am confident that we will then hopefully find a satisfactory solution. the following amendments were proposed to the draft agenda: monday: no change. tuesday:the socialist group requests that a commission statement on the situation of the roma in italy be placed on tuesday afternoon's agenda without motions for resolutions.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to clarify our proposal. we are asking the commission to make a statement not only on the situation of the roma in italy but also on the situation of the roma there and in europe as a whole. we have discussed in our group today that there is a very difficult situation in italy at the moment. we do not want to hide the fact that the situation is not confined to italy alone, and that the question of the protection of minorities, the question of the integration of the roma into european societies is not a specifically italian problem. the problem is only now coming to the fore in a big way. we want to know from the commission what it has done in recent years with the vast resources we have made available to effectively support projects on the ground to avoid situations such as those we are now experiencing in italy. we are therefore asking for a general debate, starting with the situation in italy, but not limited to italy, which i would like to avoid. we have to take into account many other things besides the italian situation. we want to know first of all what the commission has done in the past and what it intends to do in the future. we would therefore be grateful if the commission could make such a statement on tuesday.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the debate on the lisbon treaty, some left-wing groups in germany are claiming that the convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is being used to re-introduce the death penalty in europe in order to be able to execute people for the purpose of suppressing an uprising. in essence, this is an outrageous mockery of the echr, which is the inviolable core of the european value system and thus the symbol of a europe committed to peace and freedom and the rule of law. i am outraged that people are being made to fear the echr, which the eu is supposed to join under the lisbon treaty. i also strongly protest that the treaty of lisbon is being equated by some on the left with hitler's enabling act of 1933. this is not only completely absurd but also implies a monstrous trivialization of german fascism. this is beyond the bounds of decency and morality!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the conference of presidents recently decided that the intergroups should lose influence. our meetings are now allowed to take place only on thursdays in strasbourg. but human rights experts, for example, cannot participate on this day. you are on the list of speakers for the urgent debates from 3 to 4. in addition, most members travel to their constituencies on thursday afternoons and often have to travel back for hours. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have voluntarily come together to work on the issues for which there is no time left in the committees, such as tibet or the family and the protection of children or the fourth world or the baltics or animal welfare, etc. we are visible, we are audible and we are responsible for a wide range of initiatives of the european parliament. it is precisely the active members who are being gagged, they are being slowed down and are being confronted with the full facts, namely that it is no longer possible to work on tuesdays and wednesdays. mr president, please see to it that this error is corrected.
i do not wish to comment on this, but the president of parliament is not as powerful as you seem to assume. but i will, of course, take care of the matter.
that concludes this item.
the next item is the report by mr hartmut nassauer, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the criminal protection of the environment (com (2007) 0051 c6-0063/2007 2007/0022 (cod)) (a6-0154/2008).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. the european union is resorting to criminal law. the european union will therefore also be imposing penalties, firstly for breaches of environmental law. this is a far-reaching and remarkable step, because criminal law is effectively withdrawn from the european union. it is even a core area of national sovereignty in the member states. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the directive. the council, the commission and parliament have long agreed that environmental law may also be enforced by means of penalties: it took several years to determine who could operate here: the member states in the framework of framework decisions or the community in the form of the directive. the european court of justice has, not surprisingly, agreed with the commission's position. the new treaty of lisbon addresses this problem and resolves it in favour of the community even more profoundly than the decisions of the court of justice have done so in the past. this is why we have concluded a first reading agreement. we wanted to avoid having to start the procedure again if a solution was not found this year. in view of the changes in the substantive legal bases and the forthcoming european elections, it would undoubtedly have taken considerable time to produce a law to this effect. we therefore agreed that we must do everything possible to achieve a solution at first reading. by 'we' i mean the slovenian presidency of the council - i am extremely sorry that it is not here today, especially as i have put on a discreet tie for this very occasion - the commission and - and i would like to emphasize this in particular - the shadow rapporteurs, who have been very collegial and cooperative and have worked very objectively. the work was a joy. the new law contains three pillars, which i would like to quote at least briefly. firstly, we have not only defined the criminal offences that will be punishable in the future, but we have also laid down in an annex the specific provisions which can be used as a basis for criminal offences. this is in accordance with the principle of criminal certainty. it is not just any environmental violation, but the violation of laws precisely laid down in an annex, that constitutes a possible offence. it was important that this was anchored here. the second point is to take account of the principle of proportionality. the club of criminal law cannot be wielded against every offence, however ridiculous, but it must be of some weight. that is why petty crime has been excluded from the criminal law. thirdly, we have also established that only unlawful conduct can be a basis for criminal liability. we have unanimously incorporated these three principles into the draft. we have also improved the definitions. i look forward to the debate. i would like to thank once again all the colleagues who have made this compromise possible.
thank you very much, mr. nassauer. you mentioned the special quality of your tie. i noticed that too, but i didn't dare to comment. but since you did it yourself, i'd like to confirm that i noticed that, too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is indeed very welcome that the commission has not been intimidated by the eu member states and has put forward a proposal to punish environmental offences. it would be desirable if there were an agreement at first reading, because environmental violations can no longer be considered a cavalier offence. it is also positive that, just as the un conference on the conservation of species has started, the nature reserves are being defined better and more clearly in the proposed legislation and that it is becoming clearer what constitutes a violation. however, it is regrettable that there are no sanctions and that a breach is not generally considered a criminal offence. unfortunately, this creates loopholes, especially in the protection of fauna and flora, where violations are not generally punished and many can hide behind their ignorance. it would therefore have been good if genetic engineering had been covered by this directive. environmental crime must be punished and i hope that we can set a milestone to make it clear that the environment is a good worth protecting and that we must do everything possible to ensure that environmental violations are punished.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, the debate has just shown that we are indeed taking an important step forward. finally, we shall pass it, if, as we wish, this text, and i would like to thank mr nassauer again for his part in it, is obviously a text which, as mrs frassoni said, says 'crimes will no longer be decriminalised'. i think that's what's important. we're really making progress. i should also like to point out that the commission was not very much in favour of annexes at the beginning, but even if the commission still thinks that such an annex is not necessary, it is acceptable to include it as the majority of member states wanted. the annex, as provided for in the vote, is complete, and includes all the important instruments of environmental legislation which may be relevant to the offences defined in the directive. so, of course, we cannot imagine an exhaustive list either, it would have been dangerous to have the pretense of this exhaustiveness of a list. on the other hand, what i believe now, and what i would simply like to remind members of, is that after the adoption of this directive, the member states will have eighteen months to transpose its contents into their national law and then, of course, the commission will monitor this transposition process closely. in the light of the legal framework, it will reassess the need to propose additional legislative instruments. i think that a particularly careful screening will be required if this transposition is to be in accordance with the spirit which led the european parliament to this legislation. so, what, 24 months is the compromise? yeah, that's a compromise, 24 months, you know. i was more ambitious. that said, the commission is now undertaking to be very vigilant in the transposition of this text, which is indeed a major step forward for environmental protection in europe.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr medina has rightly pointed out that all the community's environmental rights must now be examined and proved, so to speak, in criminal law in the light of the new facts. this is the first time this has happened and it's very extensive. that is why it makes sense to give the member states not just 18 months but 24 months. i would also like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this decision. commissioner barrot, this may not be your area of responsibility at the moment, but it will be in the future. the commission now has a new opportunity, a new tool, which, as i said, is essentially and fundamentally a matter for the member states. i believe that the commission is well advised to exercise caution in making use of these possibilities. the criminal probation of community law is not limited to environmental law but can in principle be applied to all other community fields. i therefore believe that the commission is well advised to consider this very carefully. the european parliament has already said that it will not be able to vote on the report because it is not a matter of the council. the member states will not be terribly enthusiastic about all this. the judgments of the european court of justice have, incidentally - to put it very carefully - been received with the greatest reservation in legal theory and jurisprudence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the more it is implemented, the more effective it will be.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the fact that there are only four amendments to this lewandowski report actually shows how well and solidly the rapporteur has done his work in the run-up to this report and tried to reach an agreement with the political groups. it may also be a sign that this year, with this so-called pilot project of cooperation between the bureau and the committee on budgets, we have sought, as a first step, to achieve a successful joint approach - on the basis of the different responsibilities and in advance, in conjunction with a very intensive discussion with both the bureau and the administration of this house - so that some previous misunderstandings or even misunderstandings could simply be cleared up in the sense of the need for a joint approach. it is also important - especially at the time of the debate on the implementation of the reform treaty - to make it clear once again that parliament remains strictly committed to budgetary discipline and will not, in the current situation, go beyond the 20% ceiling of heading 5. it is also important to emphasize once again that it is almost a cultural revolution - at least a good start - that the bureau has now decided to put the appropriations for certain items in the budget reserve itself, and not just to pass an administrative proposal, but to have a more intensive discussion of the substance of what is hidden behind the parliament's budget. this also makes the work of the committee on budgets easier, and it makes it easier to get along with each other. of course, when we come to the first reading we will have to talk much more intensively about the question of changes to strengthen the committees and also about changes to strengthen the political groups so that we can do our work successfully in accordance with the reform treaty. to put it very clearly, i expect - also on the basis of the decisions taken in plenary and the preliminary discussions we have had with the bureau - that the bureau will really take the necessary decisions this week or on wednesday on the question of the assistants' scheme, the status of assistants and the other questions on the table. there are clear decisions taken by the plenary, and they need only be implemented in the bureau if we are to draw real conclusions from the internal and public debate.
member of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank parliament for giving us the opportunity to discuss access to raw materials, which is an issue that is high on the european union agenda, especially in the light of our competitiveness agenda. let me first thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the report, which embraces numerous areas such as climate change, poverty alleviation and development. development is indeed a key issue in this context. i will therefore briefly touch on development issues, before addressing our concerns and actions regarding the proliferation of measures restricting access to raw materials. the fight for poverty alleviation and development, as well as food security, is high on the commission’s agenda. you are well aware that the european union is the world’s largest donor of development funding. also in the specific field of raw materials, the commission has undertaken several development-oriented programmes: for instance, through flex, the commission supports developing countries’ national budgets, where there has been a drop in export-related fiscal revenue. the commission also promotes the transparent management of tax revenues generated by the exploitation of raw materials and natural resources through several initiatives such as eiti, the kimberley process and the flegt programme. let me also refer to our everything but arms programme, which grants duty-free access to imports of all products from least developed countries (except arms), allowing them to diversify their exports. let me now turn to our key concern, which is from the trade perspective. it takes two to trade. we need to import and we need to export. it is therefore critical to ensure that access to raw materials in third countries is free from unjustified distortions such as quotas, export duties and export bans. today, unfortunately, this is not the case. on the contrary, third countries’ appetite to impose export restrictions is increasing. our specific concerns are those imposed by some key emerging economies as part of their aggressive industrial policy objectives. let me underline that we are not focusing on poorer developing economies but rather on large emerging economies. measures imposed by these countries result in distorted competition at global level which damages european industry. unfortunately, the size of the problem is growing. by now at least 20 countries have put in place measures affecting exports of importance to the european union. we have counted over 450 restrictions affecting various raw materials. most, if not all, european industrial sectors are concerned, directly or indirectly. what can be done? the work carried out so far shows that there is no quick-fix solution even if the elimination of export restrictions is high on our agenda already, be it in bilateral free trade agreements or in the world trade organisation, but we will do more. first, it will be important to develop an overall strategy for access to raw materials. in this respect, the commission is working on a communication which will include an important trade component. any such strategy evidently should fully and coherently take up all policy areas, including critical issues such as food security, development and the environment. all means will have to be used to their maximum. a sustainable and coherent policy on access to raw materials would therefore combine: firstly, negotiations securing international commitments in the wto and bilateral context; secondly, enforcement of wto rules and existing agreements; and thirdly soft measures such as dialogue and alliance-building. while none of these elements is new, it is their combination and their coherent use which will determine their strength. this will be discussed at a conference with stakeholders later this year. considering the importance of access to raw materials, the commission welcomes the discussions in parliament on this issue. the commission particularly welcomes the amendments to the first draft of the report. the report now highlights more clearly the significance of this issue. it proposes ways to tackle this issue in a constructive manner, such as enforcement of agreements and negotiations with partner countries. we stand ready to fully cooperate with parliament in designing and implementing our further strategy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'm very pleased that you're here today, mr. potočnik. the commissioner, mr mandelson, has once again preferred to travel to some important conference in the world rather than discuss with us in parliament matters of importance to european industrial policy. i am all the more delighted that you have presented the subject much better and clearer and more forward-looking than our trade commissioner ever could have done. i am very pleased with the result we have achieved in the committee discussions, because unfortunately in his original draft the rapporteur, in all the positive aspects he has discussed with regard to the developing countries, has completely lost sight of our industrial interests. we in the committee on external trade have added to these industrial policy interests in the first part of the report. the core content is now clear. we must have a clear focus on securing the supply of raw materials to european industry. we have great difficulties here, as the commissioner has rightly pointed out. in the wto we urgently need better regulation with the aim of banning trade-distorting measures such as export duties where possible. we need free market access to the raw materials on the world market. it is unacceptable that countries such as china and others should misuse raw materials for industrial purposes. we must do everything possible - in multilateral negotiations, but also in bilateral negotiations - to keep these markets open. the fact that the commission has stood by ukraine's accession to the wto and has partially tolerated export duties is unacceptable and a bad example. the fact that we accepted dual pricing when saudi arabia joined the wto and that our european petrochemical industry is in huge difficulties as a result is intolerable. i am not very optimistic either, considering what is happening at the moment in the negotiations for russia's accession to the wto, and i would like the commission to take care here not to take any further trade-distorting measures. i would like to thank all my colleagues for their report. i hope that we will not change too much in the vote in plenary tomorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i have the impression that what is being done here - as they say in westphalia - is to throw the sausage after the bacon, that the aim is to save, through the fund, the fact that a link between tobacco premiums will be established by 2013. the fund, which also educates people about the harmful effects of smoking, was introduced here in parliament to support the tobacco premiums themselves, because there was a substantial majority in the house of commons against smoking and they kept saying: how can we promote it if smoking is so dangerous? i have always been a supporter of the tobacco premium because i think that has nothing to do with it. but then we should not hypocritically say: we are doing something against smoking if we want something else - namely the maintenance of premiums. the problem here is not the maintenance of premiums but essentially the coupling of premiums. i don't want it disconnected. it is always done as if the tobacco farmers were being deprived of the premium for the decoupling. we know -- we've discussed this with cotton -- that's not true. the money continues to go to the farms, but they are no longer forced to grow tobacco. and i think that's reasonable too. i remember . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the common agricultural policy. we have seen poor regions which were poor not because of the decoupling - which did not exist at the time - but because the tobacco industry did not pay the price for the tobacco it produced, but instead took the premiums paid at the time and pushed the price down so far that there was nothing left of the premiums for the tobacco growers. we found this incredible at the time and wondered why tobacco farmers in this region who grow tobacco with spices, which is used worldwide as a specialty tobacco in cigarettes, do not get enough to live off the crop alone without any bonuses. if tobacco is no longer grown in the regions affected by the decoupling, or in some countries where the decoupling has been fully implemented, it is not because there is nothing else to do in those regions, but because tobacco does not cover the costs they have to incur in growing it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would prefer, commissioner, to leave the tobacco information to others - we have already done enough in the european union - and to direct the money instead to rural development and diversification measures for these poor regions. the commission has also proposed that the funds be increased to provide jobs in these regions other than in the tobacco sector.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is hardly anyone in this parliament who has any fundamental doubts about the success of the peace programme, both in terms of its concrete contribution to economic and social cohesion and in terms of the improvement of local involvement - active citizenship and civil society participation in peacebuilding. the own-initiative report rightly highlights the positive experience of this unique and highly innovative structural programme, while at the same time showing what can be improved in the future, what challenges remain to be overcome and what conclusions can be drawn. as an eu regional politician, i am particularly concerned about the need to develop crossborder work and the cooperation of local chambers of commerce, public bodies and voluntary organisations on both sides of the border. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the good own-initiative report by mrs sudre has two main objectives: on the one hand, it evaluates the conclusions and recommendations of the commission's communication and, on the other hand, it provides what i consider to be an excellent basis for discussion on the future prospects for the outermost regions. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. firstly, this does not in any way mean a reduction in support for these regions, since there is a legal obligation in the ec treaty. secondly, we know that valuing the special advantages of the outermost regions is the only appropriate strategy to ensure the endogenous and sustainable development of these areas. the rapporteur rightly concludes that it is not just a matter of maintaining, preserving and protecting, but rather of creating attractiveness and appeal and continuing to work closely together. the report rightly calls for the future of the strategy to support the outermost regions to be discussed not only in the light of challenges such as climate change, demographic change, the management of migration flows, agriculture and maritime policy, but also in the light of the positions it should take in the context of other community policies. the new generation of european programmes must also be the beginning of the necessary diversification of the economies at the periphery and must not be limited to maintaining the level of development achieved, largely thanks to the eu. we should therefore give our full support to the report.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am grateful to the commissioner for his report, which is very good and which will be very useful for us. i would like to highlight three points which are of great importance in this report. the first is to ensure that the instruments we already have in the european union to promote safety and security play an important role. it is therefore essential that the rapex system is further improved to work even better for consumers. secondly, it is also very important that an instrument as important as solvit be advanced and improved. there is still a very significant information gap among consumers, because too many do not know that solvit exists and where they can go to solve some of their problems. and that is of great importance. i also very much welcome the fact that the european commission is going to review the ee mark. this is a sign which many citizens believe to be a sign of security, which unfortunately is not the case. we should ensure, together with you and commissioner verheugen, that this sign is designed in such a way that in future we can say to the citizens: 'yes, with this sign you are safe, you can rely on it!' this is a very important matter. the last and most important point for my group is the system of class actions which we social democrats are calling for. the whole of existing law is useless if consumers cannot enforce that right. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is absolutely essential that we not only encourage but actually call on the european commission to examine and develop such a system and to bring us legislation as soon as possible so that we can really give consumers this security and protection. i very much regret that the epp group refuses to demand this system with the strength and dedication that would be necessary if consumers and citizens were to have real confidence in the european union and the single market in the future. because part of that is knowing that they have the protection they need when they shop in europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would like to begin by congratulating mr lasse lehtinen on this good and balanced draft report. we agree on a great many points. this is also because the commission's preparatory work was very good. there's not much to argue about. the consumer policy strategy will be one of the main themes in the next phase of the internal market. 490 million consumers are at the heart of the european union's three greatest challenges: growth, jobs and the need to identify and meet citizens' needs. the single market has the potential to become the largest retail market in the world. alde therefore supports the commission's targeted effort to create a large retail market out of 27 small markets. we also welcome the fact that the draft strengthens the horizontal element in consumer policy and seeks to appoint so-called consumer liaison officers. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of consumers in respect of the use of certain dangerous substances and preparations is based on the principle of proportionality. i also want to say something about class action lawsuits, where we have a problem. we have little information and a lot of dogma. i think it is too early to say that parliament is united in supporting you, meglena, in this matter. we have just heard from the epp that they are not doing that. i think the epp is missing the real problems. there are losses which are spillover losses affecting many consumers across borders. it is legitimate for the commission to be concerned about this and to examine the whole thing in a study. on the other hand, we have the dogma of the pse, which in any case calls for this instrument as a political instrument, regardless of the real problems. and the real problems are manifold. there is, for example, the problem of the legal basis. where does the european treaty say that we, as the commission and parliament, are here to intervene in the civil and criminal procedural systems of the member states? what did diana wallis just say to the judiciary committee? the problem of contract law is in the room. the question of opt-in, opt-out, the role of the ombudsman many issues to be clarified. and it is not enough to say: we do not want the american system. the americans also had the best intentions with their system in the beginning. they didn't deliberately create a bad system in the first place. we should therefore maintain an agnostic, a critical attitude. we should wait for the study, we should take the results presented seriously and then discuss this matter in a serious, well-informed and undogmatic way, as this parliament is well placed to do.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission's consumer strategy covers a number of areas, many of which we support. and, dear mrs kuneva, we also support you in your personal commitment to the completion of the internal market, with particular regard to consumers and their role in the internal market. there are several areas: the strengthening of the european consumer centres and the strengthening of the solvit system have already been mentioned. we support this across the political groups. we also support the need for a horizontal approach in consumer policy, while at the same time deploring the weak emphasis on contract law. we have to be careful that the contract law doesn't get in our way and we get a patchwork carpet here. the vote in committee tonight has shown that consumers trust the law when they are fairly sure that they know it. if the time limits are different in all jurisdictions, consumers will lose a great deal of confidence. that is why we need the common framework of reference, because we need uniform standards so that consumers can have confidence. the same applies to class actions. it is not a question of the commission's being too rigid. the approach of the epp group is clear: we agree in our analysis that there are weaknesses in the enforcement of consumer interests in certain areas, particularly in the crossborder context. we are not able to analyse the causes of these weaknesses. no one said anything about that in the plenary this evening. we were promised studies. we shall be reading them very specifically and very carefully. but if these studies analyse only the legal situation and not the differences in the enforcement of the respective national laws in the member states, we will not get any added value from these studies in the end. i would like to say to mrs kuneva that we are very open to results and very constructive about improvements in the enforcement of existing rights, but that these consumer rights can only be better enforced if they actually work in practice. in germany, there is the investor model procedure act, where many plaintiffs sue deutsche telekom in a shareholder process, and it shows that theory and practice in class actions are often very far apart.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'd like to make a special treat for my colleague malcolm harbour. i'm gonna put on my red suit tomorrow to show you that the red corner actually knows what it wants. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's good to have that cleared up.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. the green group expressly welcomes the report by mrs van lancker. it is fatal that the council, when it is fully in place, announces reforms of the employment guidelines for 2008 and then says: 'oh, we don't really want any reform! the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the van lancker report, on the other hand, clearly sets the right priorities. i would like to emphasize in particular the new emphasis on social inclusion. it's crucial that the message that we're sending out here is that we're not forgetting the people out there, but that they matter to us. secondly, we greens have made a major contribution to ensuring that this parliament's report now has a substantial gender mainstreaming dimension, and that family policy is not simply sold as gender mainstreaming policy. gender mainstreaming is more comprehensive and affects women not men and women as is the case in family policy. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i would like to stress once again that we need reform and not stagnation!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. globalisation is changing our living and working conditions so rapidly that many citizens are losing their perspective. they feel overwhelmed and insecure. the guidelines of the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs must be clearly visible to them: competitive jobs, equal opportunities, social cohesion. the concept of flexicurity is not yet sufficiently understood. it is not only workers who need to become more flexible in their own interests in order to improve their employability. companies also need to become more flexible, from new marketing strategies to the development of innovative products and the conquest of market niches. at the same time, workers need effective social security systems to ensure that they are not excluded but integrated. their work should be adequately remunerated, sectorally and regionally, through agreements between the social partners, not through state interference. the aim of european employment policy is to put more people into work and to create higher quality jobs. at the same time, investment in education and training must be made in such a way that the concept of lifelong learning is truly sustainable and includes those with lower achievements. i want to be clear . both the esf and the regional development fund and the new globalisation fund must directly benefit those threatened or affected by unemployment. they should be better prepared for change and be able to enter new fields of work. we are also measured by whether we succeed in keeping older workers in the work process for longer, rather than putting them into early retirement. they're highly motivated, resilient, have a lot of expertise. best practices should demonstrate how young and old work together in teams and benefit from each other. the guidelines for employment policy contained in this excellent report will be accepted only if the principle of subsidiarity is strictly respected. anne van lancker is right: member states must show that they are involved, and then confidence in our model of the social market economy will grow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission points out that the employment policies agreed with the member states have created 6.5 million jobs over the last two years. this sounds good, especially for those who want to make the european union more and more competitive globally, but not so good for those who have largely obtained these jobs but can hardly make a living from them. the poverty report published yesterday in germany also showed that more and more workers need social assistance to help them avoid falling into poverty, and that the income gap between those with high incomes and those with almost no income is widening. it is therefore urgent that the european union's employment strategy be linked much more concretely to the fight against social exclusion, the fight against poverty, the creation of good jobs, the raising of incomes and the safeguarding of the social protection of workers. but for whatever reason, this concrete link is not being made. the european union should finally focus on putting the concept of good work, which was also promoted by the eu's employment ministers a year ago, at the centre of the agenda, in order to take this a step further. the concept of flexicurity is not sufficient in this context!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commissioner has made it clear, and i can only repeat it once again: we need the framework directive to ensure that all people are protected against discrimination. it is unacceptable that, for example, homosexuals or the elderly are granted fewer human rights than people with a migrant background. this situation must be brought to an end! i can only remind you once again that mr barroso personally promised here - when he was lobbying for parliament's approval of the commission - to bring this framework directive to the table. and as a german, i must say that i find the german government's behaviour cynical. we have a law at home which protects all the features in the same way, but here at european level it is campaigning against the framework directive, and for no plausible reason. this is pure populism at the expense of human rights, in my view.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i thank mrs lynne for the report, it comes at the right time. a word to the epp colleagues: we have had wage discrimination against women in the treaty for 40 years. nothing has changed. if you, the epp, continue to reject a horizontal directive, it will be very clear to me that your values and principles are linked to the sunday speeches and the anniversaries in the european union. they don't want equal treatment! you take discrimination against gays and lesbians, for example. they want this to be a political culture. no, it's not for me! equal opportunities cover all the criteria of article 13, and multiple discrimination must also be taken into account. antidiscrimination policy can only be credible if it does not itself discriminate. there has been a flood of lawsuits and lawsuits in the european union. it was all propaganda to undermine certain minimum standards. the member states which are not yet ready for this must now look to the future. the infringement proceedings are appropriate, including against my country germany. i now call on the commission, on every single commissioner, to make a clear statement in favour of a clear horizontal directive and to put a stop to the hierarchy of human rights in the european union. we must implement our eu policy in accordance with the treaty. article 13 is part of the treaty and therefore all this must be covered as announced in the lynne report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are all united in one thing: we are against all forms of discrimination. i want to make that clear from the very beginning. however, there are different approaches to achieving this goal. i believe that protection against discrimination cannot necessarily be better regulated at european level than at national level. here too we should respect the principle of subsidiarity. many areas of life are currently governed by eu anti-discrimination legislation. in recent years, four anti-discrimination directives have been adopted: the anti-racism, employment, equal opportunities and unisex directives. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. in fact, it is up against 20 countries, which is three quarters of the member states of the european union. the legal uncertainty is obviously very great. a new, broad and general approach in the form of a framework directive is the wrong answer to the legal uncertainties that exist here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the products it produces. otherwise, the result is more bureaucracy, more costs for citizens and less legal clarity, which does no one any good, especially the fight against discrimination. that is why, like my group, i am opposed to the articles in the elizabeth lynne report calling for a framework directive, a horizontal directive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not against protection against discrimination, but i think that a framework directive at european level is the wrong way to go. in the field of disability, all member states and the european community have signed the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. we must and will meet our obligations here. but with another vague and vague framework directive we are not helping anyone.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank liz lynne for working on the issue of anti-discrimination, and i am completely on her side up to a certain point. but, dear liz, dear elisabeth schroedter, dear lissy gröner, dear sophia, you mean well, but you are not doing the cause any favour in the end if you now call for another anti-discrimination directive going beyond what we already have in europe. i say this quite deliberately and quite openly as a homosexual person: you are not doing the people you want to protect a favour. in the end, a far-reaching anti-discrimination regulation will be directed against the very people you're trying to protect here. why is that? when we extend anti-discrimination to access to goods and services and to reversing the burden of proof, we create a climate of hidden discrimination. there will hardly be an employer who is willing to talk openly about discrimination. applicants who may be at risk, perhaps because of their passport photo, are rarely contacted by the employer when in doubt. we're not doing people any favors. we should rather ensure that the anti-discrimination policy we have today is implemented and see how it works. if we create a wasteland of bureaucracy and processes, and also legal uncertainty, the acceptance of anti-discrimination regimes among people in the european union will decline.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what is effective in combating discrimination and protecting against disadvantage? the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. it is important to implement the four existing directives. in germany alone, training required for the general equality law has cost more than 1.7 billion euros per year. i think the civil rights act is right. it provides for arrangements for firms with 15 or more employees and avoids a high administrative and financial burden. such a sme safeguard clause is appropriate. and i think it's important that we make clear our concerns, which unfortunately liz lynne has not been able to address because she has not taken our requests into account: we cannot agree with this report, which says that public money should be used to support victims of discrimination. this is where liz lynne should have listened to us, but she didn't.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report by willi piecyk, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on an integrated maritime policy for the european union (2008/2009 (ini)) (a6-0163/2008).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i am delighted that you are chairing the marine policy committee for the second time. you did that a year ago. commissioner, let us start with the good news. the first european day of the sea will be held in the jacobikirche in lübeck this evening. this church is the international civil maritime memorial. commissioner barrot opened it last year. this evening, captains will be discussing their living and working conditions on board ships. the pastors did so in the confidence that the presidents of the european parliament, the council and the commission would indeed declare 20 may to be european maritime day at noon today. this is a cause for rejoicing and should make europe pay greater attention to its seas. but if you think that such a day is also a day of maritime politics, you are probably on the wrong track. that means he needs to be politically conditioned. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. let us consider the living and working conditions on board these ships: it is a sad anachronism that a whole series of social and occupational protection schemes do not apply to seafarers. that must change, as the commission agrees. we are waiting for your initiative. the international labour organisation adopted the maritime labour convention in 2006 and the convention is still in force. it has been ratified by three countries so far: the bahamas, liberia and the marshall islands. where are the europeans? if i want to improve safety at sea, i have only one thing to do as a council member: finally pass the erika iii package. the council's dilatory approach to maritime safety is a powerful piece of evidence. it is now more than 12 months since parliament's first reading and we still have not reached a single community position. the disasters of the erika and the prestige should have been enough warning and warning to finally take action. the climate package presented by commission president barroso in january suggests that shipping could perhaps be included in emissions trading. that's too lax, that's not enough. i believe that maritime policy must do at least four things to protect the climate: include shipping in emissions trading, and do it now, not later; drastically reduce emissions of co2, so2 and nox and use renewable energy sources such as wind and solar. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own energy needs. conversely, we need the power supply from land, so ships in ports have to plug in. we have a lot of old munitions from the past wars in the north and baltic seas. this poses considerable dangers. we need an action plan to identify and remove these legacies. in recent months we have seen pirate attacks on europeans and european ships off the coast of africa. so we need clear international regulations and a system of assistance on the high seas, and we need not only to protect the coasts from the seas, but we also need to protect the seas from the coasts. the greatest threat to the oceans still comes from land: 80% of all pollutant inputs are caused by agriculture or industry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. if we then declare 20 may as european maritime day this afternoon after the vote, i hope that on 20 may we will be able to say: we have done a great deal in the meantime. you see, it was a spot landing. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. my group would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr willi piecyk. he has been very good at initiating discussions and summarising the suggestions for over a year. thank you very much, willi! we are also unanimous in our support for the report. we regret, however, commissioner, that the action plan contains too few concrete measures. mr piecyk has already pointed out that the whole environmental problem is unsolved. there is a lack of concrete action, and it is not clear how the actors - shipowners, for example - can contribute to combating climate change and how they can compete globally. this ranges from measures such as reducing sulphur and nitrogen oxides at sea to measures in ports such as the use of land-based energy. i'm a little disappointed, to be honest. if the commission says that it will put forward proposals in the autumn, we will not be able to implement it during this parliamentary term. maybe you can put a little more "butter on the fish", as we say in hamburgers, and then get a little more "drive". the second point concerns the question of marine surveillance. i believe that we need not only better cooperation between national coastguards, we need not only to strengthen frontex in terms of illegal immigration, but we need a european coastguard. this is what we have been asking for years: to bring together all activities - be it fishing, customs or police activities - in the member states and to set up a powerful european coastguard. mr commissioner, will the commission present a proposal on the coastguard during this parliamentary term or not? the last point, which is new, is the requests for the pirates. we need to protect fisheries and commercial shipping in international waters better and therefore need european as well as global action. the freedom of the seas must not become the freedom of pirates.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i'm afraid that's the problem when you get to the end. i hope that at least the commissioner can understand me. i would like to begin by thanking all those who took part in the debate. i am convinced that an integrated maritime policy, as proposed by the commission, from shipyards to ships, ports, fisheries research to tourism, can be a huge opportunity for europeans, if they seize it. you heard the man. the commission has the full support of parliament to act a little more boldly, a little more energetically. i know that you have difficulties with the council, but that must not prevent you from courageously implementing and advancing your own ideas. you have addressed the imo: of course, it is good that the imo has decided something on climate protection and reduction, but you know how difficult it is for the member states to sign the imo resolutions. mr jarzembowski has spoken of the coastguard. if we can both convince our government to have a coast guard of its own, then i hope we can do that. the commission has a further task to perform here, namely to produce a proper study. the last point: we still know far too little about the oceans. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the marine environment is protected, and i am pleased to see that the commission has taken this step. catherine stihler said it: we hope to make some progress next year. (applause from the centre)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debate. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. it was fun, actually. it is an important report in terms of content, but i did not want to comment on it now. we didn't have a discussion, so it was agreed that i would make a brief statement. this report is about the codecision procedure. we have had disagreements with the council on the comitology procedure. we naturally wanted the regulatory procedure with scrutiny in the codecision procedure, as you have negotiated, so that parliament can intervene if something is changed in the administrative procedure. the council tried to stop us. we had to have some discussions with the council, but we finally won. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must then be careful that what the council has already done does not happen again and that we do not lose our influence here. i say this so that the groups can also deal with this.
that's how it's done.
mr howitt, i have to say that i am very pleased. it is probably true that the request for a roll-call vote was made too late, but i asked you to do so and you are therefore too late to give your statement. if you had come forward immediately, we might have voted differently.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by expressing my sincere thanks on behalf of my group to the two rapporteurs, mrs ticău and mr grosch. you did a very good job . they have tried to bring together the different currents in the transport committee. our group supports in principle the new rules proposed by the commission for admission to the occupation of road transport operator and for access to the road passenger and goods transport market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i would remind you that we are still thinking of the idea of the european single market, which was supposed to be established in 1958. the council hesitated for a long time, but then in 1985 the european court of justice said that we must also build the european internal market in the transport market. we must be a little more courageous in this respect. a brief comment on the issue of professional licensing: the call for the commission to develop a single catalogue of road traffic offences by 2010 is very important. it is therefore important to ensure that the member states can decide on the question of the withdrawal of reliability, for example, on the basis of uniform criteria. it is not just a question of approval, but also of withdrawal of approval. if we want to eliminate the black sheep, we must decide the question of the withdrawal of reliability on the basis of uniform criteria, and in this respect i hope that the commission will give the commitment to present a uniform catalogue by 2010. as regards access to the market in passenger transport, i believe that we should finally achieve the single market at least by kilometres. i therefore hope that the commission will support us in ensuring that crossborder rail transport operations which do not exceed 50 km do not require the approval of the other member state. we are seeing protectionism around the corner. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the point of a single internal market is that every entrepreneur must be able to offer his services in every part of the community. for environmental reasons, i would now say to mrs lichtenberger that if i want to avoid pointless return journeys, the entrepreneur must be allowed to make journeys in other countries in a sensible way. don't give me the terms! we are talking about the abolition of cabotage in 2014. that's six more years. if we do not manage to moderate the conditions in six years, we will never be able to do so, and you will still be in favour of cabotage in the year 3000. i know these stories from hamburg because we always thought that the neighbours outside hamburg would pay very low wages. we must remember that we are creating a single market. my main point is the question of the 12-day rule. we just have to draw clear lines here. we need the 12-day rule for occasional bus traffic. it is not helpful for employers and trade unions to say: 'we are on the verge of an agreement'. we must make a legal regulation, we must open the door to revision of driving and rest periods. i am happy to discuss the details of the implementation with the unions and the employers later. but the opening of the legal provisions on driving and rest periods must be done by parliament. we have clear proposals, these proposals have found a majority in the committee, and i ask that we vote accordingly tomorrow.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to vote on the amendments. that's why it's good. i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague, mrs silvia ţicău, on her first report. it is a good report, and of course mathieu grosch, who is a man of good reporting in this house, has done a good job. i was a little surprised by the questions you get from the outside. the three reports are not about reinventing road transport, but about how to organise it in a sensible way and ultimately to raise safety standards, because we have decent companies who want to move on the road. finally, it is also a question of how social protection is linked to the whole. the opening to cabotage should not be a problem in principle. it has been said that nobody can be interested in empty cars. this is complete nonsense. we just have to make sure that this doesn't happen in wild west conditions. that is why it makes sense that tomorrow - there is a proposal on this by mathieu grosch, which we are supporting - we will decide to look at what has happened up to now and how the whole thing has developed, so that we have, so to speak, built a reserve. by 2014, if we're going to get this thing off the ground, we should have an airbag clause. if there is a serious disturbance in the market, a member state can say: i will apply the emergency brake and go to the commission, in which case there must be a remedy. the last point: the 12-day rule. i've always supported her, we supported her then. but now a new situation has actually arisen in that the trade unions and the employers' side have come to an agreement. that could cause some application problems. that is why we would be very much in favour of postponing the adoption of the report tomorrow, which includes the bus part, for a month and not adopting it until june, when we have it properly completed. then we would have done something sensible and brought the sector in.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. if the participants in the long distance driving tables, the road haulage companies and the public order guards do not criticise our proposals to replace and simplify existing directives, then we are on the right track. i think this is a good way of doing things, because it contributes to a number of important points: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve road safety, not only because controls and the exchange of data are more important than new legislation, but also because access to the professions and licensing are subject to uniform quality criteria. secondly, to eliminate distortions of competition, because the black sheep in the transport industry can be given a job, discrimination can be combated and job prospects can be strengthened. thirdly, to protect the environment and conserve energy resources by reducing empty cars. fourthly, to make bus tourism more attractive by restoring the 12-day round trip. fifthly, to reduce red tape by linking up national electronic registers and by making it easier to access them, but also by providing simplified models for community licences and driving licences. sixthly, to set in motion the modernisation of the sector. it is particularly important to me that future cabotage operations should be subject to legal certainty, even if they represent only 2-3% of the transport market today. any uniform regulation in europe is better than the current state of the patchwork carpet. from an ecological point of view, we should introduce free cabotage immediately. it is more socially and economically sensible to limit them temporarily. however, the aim must be to completely remove all restrictions on cabotage operations by eu companies, provided they meet the new licensing requirements. i expect concrete steps to be taken by 2014. we should not hinder bilateral agreements which will open up markets more quickly.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the socialist group has requested this debate and i thank you, commissioner špidla, for presenting the main elements of what needs to be said. i am also very grateful to you for your very clear words. so let me start with an appeal to all of us here. the right and the left in this house share common values. i am very grateful to you that many of the conservative group in this house agree with us that the problems we have to solve must be dealt with within the framework of humanity. the dignity of the people of the european union is inviolable. the burning of camps, the hunting of people in the streets is completely unacceptable! it's not gonna solve any problems. i am grateful to you, commissioner špidla, for putting this fundamental value of european policy at the centre of your speeches. we want to help solve problems. that is why i want to make a point here. the problem we are discussing today is not an italian problem, but a problem that also exists in italy, but that has emerged in recent years throughout the european union: that we have an insufficient degree of integration of minorities into european societies, and that in particular the roma communities in all the countries of the european union suffer from this. we have had events like those we are now having to lament in italy in other countries of the european union. so once again: it is not about blaming italy, but about thinking about how we can work with the italian authorities to solve the problem, in the interests of the roma community, which needs immediate help. the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. the mayors there need our help, too. that is why it was a very wise suggestion from you, commissioner, that we should consider how we can help such communities in the short term with the funds available from the european union. i believe that the efforts we must make now must go in one direction. we should not be arguing about who is to blame for something or who is responsible for what omission! we should make a concerted effort to use the events of the last few days as an opportunity to say: the roma community needs the willingness of all the european member states, of the entire community of european citizens, to integrate it. and we must demand that the roma community wants to be integrated into our society. this must be possible with full respect for the cultural identity of this community. i have spoken to foreign minister frattini by telephone today to make it clear that we, as the socialist group, together with the commission and the council, want to find a solution to the most pressing problems, because i believe that we must not allow the roma to be the target of attacks by people who want to pursue their right-wing populist policies on the basis of these shortcomings. that is our common task, and that is why we have asked for this debate. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, in the eu, more than 10 million sinti and roma live on the margins of society. the decade of the roma, launched in 2005, has so far made little difference. the incidents in italy clearly show that the measures taken to combat exclusion and discrimination have had little effect and have not been implemented. in january we again called for an integration strategy for roma, and this morning we debated and adopted the anti-discrimination framework directive. the pogroms in the roma quarters in italy show how urgently we need a genuine and comprehensive political solution and non-confrontation. a genuine integration of roma into our society would be a good proof that the basic pillars of democracy, the rule of law and human rights are the foundation of the eu.
member of the commission. − so far the answer is a clear ‘no’, but we are aware that it is calling for our attention, and not only our attention, in terms of monitoring what is going on. what we have done is to put it on the agenda in the european competition network, and we are gathering information from all the member states that have experience – some have inquiries, others are analysing, others are just trying to find out what is going wrong in the retail area. france, germany, the uk, belgium – they all have different approaches to today’s situation. so far, there is no reason to say that there is a cartel. as soon as we become aware of a cartel we will act, i can assure you, but, by the way, i think it is not that bad, as national competition authorities are active and following the whole situation in this sector.
member of the commission. − madam president, mr posselt, mr crowley and mr ebner have all asked about the state of play of accession negotiations with croatia and i can respond to them jointly. these negotiations with croatia are progressing well overall. so far negotiations have been opened on 18 chapters out of 35 and we have closed two of these chapters. as regards opening benchmarks, 11 sets of benchmarks have been set. the commission has assessed the benchmarks as being met in seven of these 11 cases. in these cases our recommendations are now under discussion among the member states in the council or negotiation positions are being prepared. in the remaining chapters, such as competition policy and public procurement, opening benchmarks were already set by the union in the first half of 2006 – that is two years ago. but croatia has been slow in taking the necessary measures to meet these opening benchmarks. croatia is still working on opening benchmarks for the chapter on the judiciary and fundamental rights, where there are many difficult challenges in areas such as judicial reform, the fight against corruption and refugee return. while croatia has done plenty of good work aligning with the key 16 chapters where we have closing benchmarks, croatia has not done enough at this stage to meet all closing benchmarks in any of these 16 chapters. with the remaining conditions still to be met by croatia it unrealistic to assume that accession negotiations could be concluded this year in 2008. croatia has nonetheless made good progress overall and therefore 2008 could be a decisive year in croatia’s eu accession negotiations. provided a number of conditions are met by croatia, the commission will in this autumn’s enlargement package present an indicative timetable or a conditional roadmap for the conclusion of other technical negotiations in the course of 2009. the first condition to be met is that croatia should meet all opening benchmarks by june this year, i.e. next month. secondly, croatia must comply with all legal obligations under the stabilisation and accession agreement and it must also continue to comply with the general conditionalities of the stabilisation and accession process. and thirdly, croatia needs urgently to improve its management of eu financial assistance under the phare and ipa programmes. the president of the commission will continue to provide substantial financial and technical assistance for croatia in order to help it fulfil the requirements of eu membership. once sufficient progress has been made by croatia in meeting opening or closing benchmarks, the commission will prepare and submit in good time the necessary recommendations to the member states for the positions to be taken in the intergovernmental conference. so, in a nutshell, ultimately the pace of progress of croatia towards the european union will be determined by its own ability to meet all necessary conditions. thus we can work and progress on the basis of croatia’s own merits.
the commissioner knows my position, that croatia should have been a member long ago if it was to be treated fairly. but i am not expressing my personal view, but that of the house. the house has said that the negotiations should be completed by 2009 at the latest. the joint parliamentary committee, at its meeting in croatia a few weeks ago, said that all chapters should be opened under the slovenian presidency and closed under the french presidency, or at the latest the czech one. does the commission consider this timetable to be realistic and what is it doing to speed up the process?
member of the commission. − we continue to encourage both countries concerned to find a solution to this long-standing – i should say too long-standing – problem. we have full confidence in the united nations mediator, mr nimitz, who has a clear mandate to facilitate talks between the two parties in the framework of the two critical resolutions of the un security council from 1993. the commission cannot therefore play the role of mediator. we have no powers, no competences, but we encourage both sides to take a very constructive approach, to engage and finally find a solution to this matter.
i'm not going to tell you. the commission has one competence: it is the guardian of the treaties. the interim agreement states that bilateral issues cannot be a barrier to accession. i wanted to ask you to confirm that and you asked whether you see any effort by the macedonian government to solve the problem and whether in your view the country has made any progress in recent months.
member of the commission. − mr president, i first of all should thank parliament for having addressed the commission proposal as a matter of urgency and i know this is not easy at all. parliament has done more than the impossible in order to get there, and it has done well. mobile satellite services constitute a sector with high potential for europe with applications ranging from high-speed internet access, through mobile broadcasting, to emergency services. the development of a competitive internal market for mobile satellite services will produce significant economies of scale and a more efficient use of spectrum, and all this for the benefit of businesses and consumers throughout europe. however, timing is of the essence if we do not want to miss the current window of opportunity for mobile satellite systems. this initiative puts in place a pan-european, binding selection process of specific satellite operators, and it is very innovative indeed in several respects. i am therefore very grateful for the efforts made by the rapporteur, mrs hall and for those made by all the other colleagues in the european parliament to promote consensus in parliament and in the council within what remains a very short time-frame. there are many amendments in the report aimed at including in the legislative decision details initially meant to be addressed during the implementation of the selection process. these include a detailed description of the selection criteria, the respective weighting of these criteria, the duration of the authorisations to be delivered by the competent national authorities and so on and so forth. in normal terms such level of detail is not present in legislative texts. but the commission is ready to accept the amendments by parliament. these amendments will of course contribute to a level of transparency which is even higher than the one in the proposal, and in addition the main elements of the proposal, in particular the competitive nature of the selection mechanism, the basic structure of the selection process and the main milestones and selection criteria, have remained largely unchanged. despite these additional details, parliament and the council have asked for specific comitology procedures for several steps in the implementation of the selection programme. these procedures, which can be either regulatory or with scrutiny, are, i have to say, less flexible and more time-consuming than what the commission has proposed. while the commission is ready to show flexibility on this, and to accept these amendments, it should also be clear that this might have an impact on the overall timing of the selection process. this is of the essence and that is why i really call on all parties involved in the implementation to show flexibility in the practical arrangements that will be needed in order to bring the selection of satellite operators to a successful end as soon as possible. in this sense i also invite the council to make all necessary efforts to finalise the agreement before the june telco council so that a decision can be taken. so i know that there is a lot of work which has to be done now by our legal specialists in the commission, parliament and, most of all, in the council. in conclusion, the commission can support the amendments put forward by mrs hall. they correspond to the slovenian presidency’s compromise text and they pave the way for a first-reading arrangement. i am very confident that this sound compromise will receive broad support from parliament.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. - mr president, i have to say something. i would also like to begin by thanking mrs hall for her extremely ambitious efforts to get this difficult report to a conclusion in time. she did it! the report was difficult because before the telecom package was amended, pan-european regulations were to be made for the special situation of mobile satellite services. it is to the credit of parliament and, above all, of its rapporteur that it has succeeded in finding ways of adopting such a preliminary ruling which nevertheless allows a sufficient degree of transparency and which actually binds the derogation decision to such exceptional cases. i am therefore very pleased and i can say on behalf of the committee on culture and education that we support the result achieved, because it essentially sets out three points which are important for the committee on culture. firstly, the decision respects the competence of the member states to decide on the allocation of frequencies. secondly, the decision is also bound by the directive on audiovisual media services, and thirdly, it can also strengthen media pluralism and cultural diversity in these services. it is to be hoped - and this is our wish - that this work will pay off and that there will indeed be pan-european mobile satellite services, which we expect from this decision.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not gender equality is a value and a goal of the european union. but on paper there is a lot, in practice, discrimination is everyday. unfortunately, the perceived equality also exists in the field of science. we know that more girls than boys are getting a high school diploma, more girls than men are getting a college degree. so the female sex is highly educated, but after graduating from college, it hits the glass ceiling. and we have some very sobering figures: only 15 percent of all female professors are women. only 15% of top jobs are held by women, although the majority of university graduates and almost half of doctoral candidates are women. there is also pay discrimination in science: less than 20% of women on boards that decide on research projects. it is almost possible to make a thesis: the more money is spent on a research project, the less women are involved in it. so what we need to do to make equality more than just a buzzword is to have quotas. but we need ambitious quotas to make a difference. gender equality must apply to all areas of science and equality should cover at least 40% of the under-represented sex, i.e. women, and not just 25%. so we should set ourselves this ambitious goal to make something happen. let me close with a personal thought: we know that by 2010 the european union will be short of 700 000 researchers. we must therefore make every effort to ensure that the european union does not become a scientific desert. but unfortunately, very early on, gifted girls are overlooked. i would be very interested in promoting the talent of girls in particular, and i would ask the rapporteur to take this into account more clearly.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. ten thousand tonnes, as mr schlyter has just said, is a very large amount. after all, they are enough to poison about four million people a day. this is just to give you an idea of the scale. we discussed the dossier at first reading about a year ago. the questions of metallic mercury compounds and mercury are sufficiently regulated. it is ensured that this substance does not re-enter the european union. the safety of storage has also been sufficiently assessed. the restrictions given are sensible because of the increasing toxicity of mercury, although i would have liked to see more restrictions in many areas. the compromise - i should like to congratulate mr papadimoulis on his work - is very orderly. it does not meet all but many expectations. as a former local and regional politician, i also have a great deal of sympathy for my spanish colleagues when they have to find a solution for almadén that is viable here together. but the compromise is so valuable that we should not let it fail on this issue. there is still time before tomorrow's vote for the commission to make a statement on this matter. it is important to accept the compromise now, because otherwise there is a risk that we will not reach an agreement in this legislature. the mercury strategy is not yet perfect. amalgam is still considered safe by two expert panels of the commission. i cannot agree with that.
i am not going to go into detail. i have the great pleasure of welcoming a delegation from the mexican congress, led by senator guadarrama, who has taken his seat in the gallery. welcome to the club. (applause from the centre) the delegation is taking part today in the sixth meeting of the joint parliamentary committee between the european parliament and mexico. mexico is a close partner of the european union and this meeting takes place at an important moment in relations between mexico and the european union. the lima summit last weekend showed that there are many similarities. i also had the opportunity to speak with your president, felipe calderón. the joint parliamentary delegation will also be discussing climate change this afternoon, so i am sure you will be following this plenary debate with interest. i wish our mexican colleagues and friends a successful stay in strasbourg.
the next item is the interim report by karl-heinz florenz on the scientific facts of climate change: findings and recommendations for action (2008/2001 (ini)) (a6-0136/2008).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, welcome to the european parliament. why is the european union moving towards developing a non-permanent committee on climate change? it was right that we should present a general approach to how we, the european union, intend to deal with this issue. if we want to help to keep this issue on the agenda internationally, as stavros dimas is doing successfully for the commission, we must say, as the european union and as parliament, what our approach is, what our calling card is on this issue. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. so it's right that we start with the scientific part of this debate. that's what today is about. such a section can never be an attractive report because it always deals with the status quo. we cannot add a little here and take a little there, as in the horse market, but we must deal with the facts. we have gathered these facts in many thematic strategies, in which we have invited two nobel prize winners to brussels and strasbourg. you, mr president, have organised an excellent event and delivered a very important speech on climate change, which has given me great pleasure and given me a lot of strength. we have heard from many experts from international groups around the world, under the excellent leadership of my good friend guido sacconi, who has managed things well. we have also been able to invite critics, but unfortunately not all have come because they do not want to be exposed to the international competition of this criticism. writing criticism and not having it reviewed by a panel is not heroic. i wish one or two of the critics had actually come and addressed the debate internationally. we have read many excellent documents. the ipcc, the world climate council, was there, we heard the world agricultural organization, we heard the un environment organization, we heard the climate conference in the federal republic of germany, and many others, which led to the fact that we now have the facts on the table. this is not a battle paper, as my friends here and there claim, but a status report that should provide a platform for how we proceed in the future. the arguments clearly show that there is a scientific consensus that we can now move forward with. there is a consensus on how to assess anthropogenic impact - that is article 3. we have sufficient information that the target of not exceeding two degrees in the future is an important one. what's the future all about? it is about us in europe gathering the strength to bring about a new, third industrial revolution, which includes the three pillars of sustainability, namely the sustainability of products, the social component and, of course, the economic component. this is not a burden, this is a huge opportunity that we need to develop as a vision. because one thing is certain: the climate debate is only a small part of our problem. we have a sustainability debate because we are currently burning energy that has been created over millions of years in just 500 years, and we have no answer at all to how our children and grandchildren can develop their energy in the future. this is the big chance. we need courage to imagine. the stone age didn't end because we don't have any stones. i tell you, the stone age is over, fortunately, because we had politicians who had courage -- courage for the future, courage for our children, courage for this planet. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank mr florenz for his kind words to the president. it's more the exception that something so kind is expressed. i am not going to say, because i am objective and neutral, that you do not get much praise from your own political family. so, it was an extraordinary event that took place here this morning!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the socialist group has asked for the establishment of the ad hoc committee on climate change. when we put this motion forward, we were more convinced than ever that we were at a crucial stage in european and international politics, because what this committee has to do is a herculean task, not just here in this house. the issues he deals with are - one might say - a task for the century, because what is not done in this century is definitely lost for future generations. it is therefore good that this debate shows that the overwhelming majority of members of this parliament share the same approach, namely that we must make a tremendous effort to meet the challenge we face. i therefore wish to join in the thanks to mr karl-heinz florenz, who, as a member of another parliamentary group but as rapporteur, is putting forward content which we as a socialist group can in any case underline. and the fact that two figures from this house, karl-heinz florenz and my colleague guido sacconi, are jointly chairing this committee is a good sign that we can reach a result supported by a large majority. so much for the consensual issues. but we will undoubtedly be faced with the question of whether we can still remain together at crucial junctures, when it really comes down to it, when it comes down to the details. i would therefore like to describe two or three points of failure which will concern us in the future. i do not want to go into the details of the interim report, which i consider excellent, but i would like to draw your attention to one example: we were all very enthusiastic a few years ago when we said that we wanted to move away from oil and towards renewable resources in reducing carbon. we said we were going to use biofuels, without anyone realising that the massive use of land to grow crops that could be used for energy could lead to a shortage of land for food production. the revolt that we saw in mexico a few years ago, when cornmeal suddenly became unavailable or prices skyrocketed, we - or at least i - did not put it in a direct context with this issue. today we know that we must solve the energy and climate problems, and at the same time fight world hunger. we need to get both of them on the same page. this is a small sign that we have embarked on an interdisciplinary task that will really require enormous willpower, the willpower to be willing to compromise, and by the way, to compromise in another place. europe is an industrial continent. the fact that we have been building industrial structures for 50 or 60 years has been responsible for the climate. that's why we need to reroute it. but everyone must be aware that industrial structures which have been built up over 50 or 60 years cannot be changed by a decision of the european parliament in the space of 14 days. that takes time, too. that means we will have to find a balance between the ambitious demands we have. commissioner dimas is right, we have no time to lose between these ambitious demands on the one hand and the feasibility of the conversion on the other. both are crucial. we need a reasoned and a compromise-based approach to both. i think that is why it is good to hear from the french presidency that it is ready to reach a conclusion by the end of the year. if we in the council have the same willingness to compromise, the same commitment as is being shown here in parliament, then i am optimistic. if we are to have the usual tactics in the council, which we always have in this body, then we will be wasting time. i have the impression that there is a great deal of willingness in parliament, and in the commission as well. if there is such a willingness in the council, if all three european institutions work together, then before the european elections - as mr daul has also mentioned - it will be possible to create the impression among the population that the heads of state and government decide on the broad guidelines and that the european parliament does the actual detailed work. this division of labour is common, and then it would finally be visible. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not thank you very much to karl-heinz florenz for the very good cooperation in the climate committee. if you take the florence report and say that this is the state of the climate policy debate in the european parliament, you might conclude: 'prima climate among meps in the european parliament.' if only - and here i want to make a connection with the "tank-smashing" characters from a famous comic book - there were different activities happening at the same time in the same place! unfortunately, the fact is that, in parallel with the climate committee, the industry committee, the environment committee and the development committee will also be pursuing climate policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us take the debate on the regulation of co2 emissions from cars. what is currently on the table from the rapporteur for the committee on industry, mr langen, has nothing to do with ambitious climate protection policy or with the attempt to guarantee energy security through efficiency technologies - which we are proposing for the automotive industry in europe - . the ambitious start that stavros dimas represents has been consistently blocked by majorities in this european parliament for the last year and a half. i would like to know where the spirit of the general climate debate is in this debate about cars. my group is not the one that has to put its hand on its heart, but the brakes in this debate are distributed among all the other groups in this house. another point: emissions trading will be an important topic in poznan and copenhagen. the commission is supposed to ensure that we achieve a 20% reduction in europe. this is a proposal put forward by angela merkel as president of the council. the commission has hardly put its proposal for emissions trading on the table when meps are once again the extended arm of the industrial lobby in the european parliament. what is being negotiated in the first place is not ambitious reduction targets, but the exceptions are being negotiated before the rule is even set. the florence report is good. the reality of climate policy in the european parliament has nothing to do with what we are voting on here today.
thank you, colleague. i'll try harder with bobošíková now that i know your name. but i hope we all learn from it. this is not just the case for the president, but certainly also for the speaker. thank you very much, mrs bobošíková.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs harms, in the pacifist sense, tank-cracking is actually a positive thing! the scientific facts are well known . the climate change we are experiencing is also largely due to human activities. the committee on budgets is doing something exemplary in this respect. but what bothers me about this report is the threatening undertone. i am disturbed that scientific dissent is not allowed any room at all. every time politics claims to be infallible, it is doing something wrong. we are talking about unprecedented periods of heat, about a loss of species of up to 70% caused by climate change. almost all regions of the world are negatively affected. these are claims based on long-term modelling, but they cannot be attributed to human-induced climate change in any way. in this context, i find it scandalous for our parliament that amendments by mr březina which point to this situation should not be accepted. mr president, i specifically ask you to accept amendment no 15. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. because an exaggerated threat will lead to policies that shift the focus of political priorities. one example is that climate change should be a priority for development aid. but the more acute problems today are aids, malnutrition, malaria and earthquakes. we must now commit political resources to this. in europe too, we have reached a point in climate protection where social gains are being threatened. already today, a german household pays more than 40% of the electricity price to the state, at european pumps it is between 55 and 78%, and the new system of emissions trading will in turn increase electricity prices by at least 30%. i am calling for a rational approach to the issue of climate change, and then we will find socially and economically acceptable solutions. the amendments tabled by mr březina offer some starting points. i'm asking for backup. (applause from the centre)
the chairman of the council. - i have followed with great interest your very lively debate, which was based on a very good interim report by the rapporteur, mr karl heinz florenz, whom i thank and congratulate on this report. your debate was the kind that every parliament would want to see. she was very involved, and i understood her as a positive critic, because every opinion is valuable, even the critical one. i can summarize two main conclusions from your discussion. the european union is and will remain a force capable of confronting and pushing forward, alone, of course in cooperation with all global partners, a serious response to climate change. and the second conclusion is that climate change is not just a problem, but it can also be an opportunity. but the most effective way to tackle them is to act globally. i would like to stress that the european union is successfully and very thoroughly preparing all the measures that can effectively respond to these consequences of climate change in the framework of the climate and energy package. the transition to a safe and sustainable low-carbon economy will affect many policies, as well as the economic and daily lives of people, citizens. in many areas of the european union, concerted policy action is needed. i would like to support your view that we must remain united, not only in global decisions, but also united in the details of these policy measures. i would like to mention in particular the synergies between climate change and energy. this requires the development of coherent european and national policies in the field of research and development and innovation; the promotion of a sustainable transport system that will enable member states to take the necessary action to combat climate change; the improvement of energy efficiency, in particular in buildings, but also in all other sources in all sectors, and the communication to consumers of efficient energy use in order to reduce the social consequences and also to seize new opportunities. as mr. florenz's report noted, the science of climate change is well-established and accepted, and the fact that the current global warming is caused by human activity is scientifically indisputable. let me just briefly comment on your differing views on the ipcc scientific framework. i'm here to advocate for us to respect the political arena. the european parliament is the preeminent political forum. of course, we also respect the field of science, which is bound by the principles of research ethics and scientific correctness. and let us not forget the space of the citizen, the common man, who will be affected by these actions in his quality of life, including when he plans his family budget and his future. i would like to say in particular that we think it is important that the interim committee on climate change, which mr sacconi said was in a good, positive mood, has therefore discussed climate change issues in depth at its thematic meetings and has also adopted by a large majority the interim report on the scientific facts on climate change. in particular, we welcome the decision of the european parliament to extend the mandate of the interim committee on climate change until february 2009. we see this as a further proof, mr president, that the european parliament has supported the european union's ambitious policy on climate change in the international context and that it is making sure that political decisions are supported by the latest scientific findings. we also welcome the announcement in today's debate that the discussion of the climate and energy package will follow suit, which should represent a serious implementation of the commitments of the european council of march 2008.
member of the commission. - the mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers in today's debate for their very interesting speeches. i would like to stress in particular that the european union, whether as the eu-15 or the eu-27, will achieve the kyoto target. there's no doubt about it. and because i will be commissioner, or i hope to be commissioner for another 18 months, i can assure you that there is no way we will not achieve the kyoto target. i say this because the measures we have taken and the measures we are taking ensure that the kyoto objective will be achieved. but that is the least we can do in the coming years, and to inform you, the figures you gave earlier are correct, and we must say that the european union is reducing greenhouse gas emissions at a time when other countries, like the united states, are increasing them, and by a large margin compared to 1990. in 2005, as you said, we were 2% below the level of 1990, in 2006 just under 3% for the 15 countries of the european union that have the collective objective, but as a european union of 27 we are even better, about 8% less than in 1990. at the end of the period provided for by the kyoto protocol to fulfil our commitments, the european union as the eu-15 will have at least 8% less and as the eu-27 about 11% less than in 1990. the fact that we will have a little more than an 8% reduction is very positive, because it will make it easier for us to achieve the target for 2020 and beyond. the interim report says that scientific findings will play an important role in international negotiations, as they will provide the basis for bold action. they will serve as a criterion for assessing the suitability of the proposals to be put on the negotiating table in the run-up to the copenhagen conference. the resolution recalls the risks of the unchecked course of climate change, which will affect human societies in a variety of ways and damage our economies and cultural traditions. the resolution rightly stresses the importance of avoiding major imbalances, such as the drying up of the amazon and the collapse of large ice sheets at the poles. i think it is equally important to highlight the potential consequences of climate change for international security, whether it be through food and water shortages, conflicts over control of resources or migratory flows. the pressure on the international community from emergencies due to extreme weather events or violent conflicts due to climate change is constantly increasing. the recent food price crisis is the most tangible indication yet of what may be coming as harvests in many parts of the world are being reduced by extreme weather events. unfortunately, this situation does not appear to be temporary or exceptional, but it is tending to become structural and recurrent as a phenomenon, which will not be addressed without drastic changes in agricultural policy and rural practices. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would first like to mention the reduction of greenhouse gases through appropriate action at national level in developing countries. the support, technology capabilities and related financing necessary for technology transfer and the strengthening of administrative capacity of these countries in a way that will make it possible to measure, record and verify the relevant reductions are needed. this concept is at the heart of the negotiations on the bali action plan. as was understood in bali, any move by developing countries will depend not only on serious commitments by developed countries to reduce emissions, but also on substantial efforts by them to finance mainly technology transfer and the creation of the necessary administrative capacity. it is important for the european union to use all the opportunities for dialogue with the major developing countries to reach an understanding of what this means and how the european union could support such actions, whether through policy cooperation, technical assistance, transfer of know-how and incentives to the carbon market, or through financial assistance. measures should be taken in all areas, including emissions from energy use and deforestation. the commission is fully in agreement with the scientific aspect of this debate, that scientific findings should be made public. to raise awareness and make consumers more aware of the greenhouse gas emissions generated by their lifestyle and consumption habits. this increased awareness of citizens should, however, be accompanied by strong economic incentives for businesses to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the products and services they produce. the transition to a low-carbon economy on a global scale is required and can only be achieved by systematic and coordinated measures to reduce emissions across all sectors. the climate change and energy package, which is in the process of being co-decided, gives us the lead in this transition. it also gives us the opportunity to demonstrate that an ambitious climate policy is not only feasible, but also more broadly beneficial to our economies and societies. we will continue our very constructive cooperation on this important policy package and hopefully reach an agreement as soon as possible this year. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the european parliament on its important contribution to the effort to tackle the problem of climate change, and also mr florenz on his excellent work. i hope that parliament will continue in this constructive way and that we will continue to exchange views and cooperate with each other, both on the climate and energy package and on the international negotiations in view of poznan and copenhagen.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! thank you for the encouraging closing words. i think we have already seen a consensus here in this house, and this consensus obliges us, of course, to carry out further scientific studies and to clarify the doubts that still exist - and in what areas there are no doubts at all. this is also the express wish of the rapporteur. i would like to add to all the praise i have heard today the staff who have done a lot of work behind the scenes on this report. i would like to thank you once again. today it seemed we were arguing about co2. i want to tell you that we're going to be arguing about other things, because co2 is just the tip of the iceberg, and this is a serious issue, no question. but the real challenge is how do we approach our sustainability strategies. how do we deal with what we are managing for our children at the moment, which is this earth? the energy we're using right now has been accumulated over millions of years, and we're burning it in maybe a thousand years. the challenge is to get twice as far in the future with one litre of fuel. if we can do this everywhere, then we've done our job. the great task now lies in increasing efficiency in europe, developing the most advanced technologies and of course using these advanced technologies in our country, but also selling them economically worldwide to create jobs. i see an opportunity in that. i would like to ask you very warmly to cooperate in this opportunity. i would like to thank everyone again, but i would like to point out once again, in the light of the rules of procedure, that from the beginning of the debate there has been a miserable translation error in article 10, which says that i condemn something. it's not my nature at all. i disapprove of some things, but i never condemn anything. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a very bad translation problem in this house. in the whole report! i am not going to be a hypocrite and i would like to draw your attention to the correct amendments which have been tabled in this house on this subject. i thank all of you and invite you to join me in the much more difficult part of this, which is how we respond to these scientific facts now.
, in writing. i have agreed to the report. scientific facts must be the basis for the urgently needed debate on climate change. the interim report by mr florenz does that. this report should play an important role both in the public and in the council and the commission. scientific knowledge of the 'greenhouse effect' has been available for more than 180 years. it was the concrete social conditions that ignored this knowledge of the threat to our natural and climatic conditions of existence, prevented and further hindered a timely response. either we act now in international cooperation to limit further damage and stop those predicted disasters that most brutally strike the poorest of the world first, or we act destructively. the evidence strongly suggests that immediate action is needed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, that we must stay well below the 2°c target through lifestyles and consumer behaviour, political and societal policies and frameworks. i support the rapporteur in saying that this is not just a debate about emission levels, but a social debate about sustainability. the european sustainability strategy must address these issues and finally shape policy in a sustainable way. this requires a change in political priorities. every day lost is devastating and cannot be legitimized by anything.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to begin by thanking ria oomen-ruijten for her excellent cooperation. that was just as constructive as last fall. the text is also characterized by a high degree of consensus. we are in agreement between the groups here that turkey must continue to improve its performance independently, continuously, but also much more rapidly. we also agree that this can and must be required of a candidate country. we too believe that the reforms must continue despite the serious domestic crisis. i would like to comment on something that mr swoboda has just said: the european union is not a party to this ban. the words of commissioner rehn are right here: secularism and democracy must be defended, otherwise i see, as you do, mr swoboda, that we are facing a fundamental democratic problem which will put a heavy burden on the accession negotiations. the important thing is that many of the problems we're dealing with here have been around for a long time. so there are just a few points that we should highlight here. we welcomed last year that the turkish government had been given a clear and unequivocal mandate for further reforms. we have called for this mandate to be used to actually push reforms forward. we welcome the adoption of the foundation act. this is a positive step, but the bottom line is that we must say - and i think there is also agreement - that we are generally disappointed with what has been achieved. take the constitutional reform: it is being overshadowed by the headscarf debate in such a way that there has been no real progress in the fundamental renewal of the turkish constitution. the headscarf debate is also a matter of freedom of expression and religion, but it must not be used to culturally oppress secular women. another important issue - particularly for the liberal group - is the issue of freedom of speech. the so-called reform of article 301 is not satisfactory in our view. i have spoken to many people in turkey itself, and even there few see that this attempt to reform article 301 is really serious and well-founded, especially since it is now a symbolic paragraph. there are many other articles in the criminal code that restrict freedom of speech - i won't list them here in detail - there is still a lot to do. the other point i would like to mention briefly is the relationship with turkey within the framework of the eu and nato. we stress here that we expect turkey to adopt a constructive attitude towards esdp missions. we understand the difficulties that exist. nevertheless, we expect a candidate country to have a european spirit when it comes to the security of european personnel in missions such as eupol or eulex.
i have to say, madam president, i would first like to thank mrs ria oomen-ruijten very warmly. it has presented an open and honest inventory. this is in line with the reports we have adopted in previous years. i am much more sceptical than you and commissioner rehn on one point. i have not seen any progress in turkey in the past year. it was the other way around, there was a standstill everywhere. we have a great interest in a turkey which is modern, democratic, stable and western-oriented, and which has close economic, political and cultural links with europe. but if you look at the facts, the stall is the sign. we have not yet reached a settlement on the question of the customs union. there is a special status for turkey with the european union as far as cyprus is concerned. we have a proposal for article 301 in this reform process. but i would remind you that the former prime minister, tansu çiller, promised reform in 1995, 13 years ago, before we agreed to the customs union. nothing has happened. the ban is on the table and it shows the lack of democratic maturity in turkey: the parties are not bothered at all that the ruling party is to be banned and the prime minister may personally be banned from politics. the military is both a factor of stability and an obstacle to democracy. this contradiction has not been resolved either. and i see a new nationalism in turkey, which is documented in many points. the attitude towards our delegation chairman, joost lagendijk, also shows that it is not really a question of freedom of expression, but that public opinion is being influenced by any form of pressure. we can't afford to take that. i am saying that there is no reason at all for optimism about turkey at the moment, but that we must therefore seriously consider alternatives. in this sense, the report is open and honest, and we will support it.
i have to say, madam president, i too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her fair cooperation and for the very balanced report. the report identifies the critical points which are also being discussed critically by the people of turkey, such as the solution of the kurdish question, by consensus, while guaranteeing the rights of all ethnic groups in turkey. for example, the solution to the headscarf problem in turkey, which also involves protecting the interests of those who do not want to wear headscarves. for example, the issue of religious freedom, which must apply to everyone in turkey, including alevis, christians and, for example, the ecumenical patriarch of istanbul. we are saying all this because we are friends of turkey, because we want to see a european turkey within the european union. that's why i'm getting this criticism from friends to friends. the european union can also do more. signals such as those from mr sarkozy that turkey will not join the european union, no matter what it does, are certainly not helping us.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. turkey is a more important country for the european union today than ever before. that is why the reform process within turkey must be supported, and it is important for us to have a democratic and rule-of-law turkey. we must, however, have certain concerns, which are also expressed in the oomen-ruijten report, namely whether turkey has sufficient capacity for reform. when i see what happens with the criminal code article 301 freedom of religion and foundation, minority rights , then the erdogan government tries to make progress, but it has always fallen short, because it is quite obvious that in the domestic context the limits of the capacity for reform have been reached. if i see at the same time that people are saying lightly that the ruling party is banned, and that a few weeks later it is re-instated under a name without certain people who are no longer allowed to do politics, then this means that ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say, madam president, i love you, ria. my praise and respect for this report. he is balanced and fair. we should maintain this line today. we rightly stress that turkey must make further efforts. the objective of building a stable and prosperous democracy in turkey is not only in turkey's interest but also an important strategic interest of the eu. i am concerned about the attitude of the next president-in-office, mr sarkozy. his policy towards turkey does not aim at eu membership. he insisted on the removal of the term 'candidate country' from eu documents and stressed that france would only agree to the opening of chapters which did not lead to full membership. the credibility of the eu is at stake. i repeat: the pact is the servant! the opening of accession negotiations was unanimously agreed, and france also said yes. instead of sending negative signals, the eu should deal constructively with turkey. we have decided by a majority in this parliament that we will deal with turkey... (the president cut the speaker off)
, in writing. since the beginning of this year, we have unfortunately been receiving sad and worrying news of cross-border actions by the turkish military, of deaths and injuries in fighting in the south-east of the country and on the turkish-iraqi border, of disproportionate and brutal attacks by the security forces on children and women in particular during this year's kurdish newroz festival. the report by the dutch member oomen-ruijten, while it touches on important points, is far too hesitant in view of the seriousness of the political situation in turkey. in order not to anger those responsible in turkey, the essential elements of a necessary reform are not being called for with the necessary clarity. i think that these include very clearly: 1. the civilian limitation and control of the military's influence in turkey; 2. the final disengagement from the idea of solving the kurdish question militarily and the clear commitment to a political solution and to reconciliation; 3. the unconditional abolition of article 301 and all other articles restricting freedom of expression and thought; 4. a clear political declaration of the will for the full emancipation of women.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
- i'm not going to. we take note of what you have said, but we should not have a debate in this general way now before the calendar is adopted.
i am not going to go into detail. these two speeches have made clear the plurality inherent in the european union, and we should in principle be grateful for that. but i would add, and i say this in all seriousness, not as a criticism but as an example of the legal order of the european union: if someone starts to question the law in force, we end up in chaos. that is why i recommend that we vote now and respect the law of the european union. we all know who decides on the seat of the european parliament. that is why i ask that we vote on the agenda in a calm manner. mr stevenson, you will receive, as will all our colleagues, a communication from the administration on the way the question of traffic conditions is developing tomorrow.
before we go to the vote, i would like to make one point. i would ask you to listen very carefully now, and then some of the group chairmen will have the floor. there is an amendment by mr trakatellis, mr varvitsiotis, mr papastamkos, mr lambrinidis and others concerning a week in 2009, namely week 16, which is from 13 to 19 april, the week before the orthodox easter. so it is not the passover itself but the preceding week. but there is no proposal at all for this week, because it is the week of the political groups. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet possible to conclude that the council has not taken a decision on the matter. however, this is not yet a preliminary decision in view of the proposed meeting week of 20 to 23 april.
there are some things on which we must reach a consensus, and i recommend that we proceed as colleagues daul and swoboda have suggested. the vote on this will be taken at the end, so we shall now come to the other amendments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to draw attention before the vote to a problem which concerns this vote and which may still need to be discussed and resolved. the proposed calendar contains a reference to the date of the 2009 elections. we're not voting on that right now. we're just taking it for granted. however, the date of the election indicates the subsequent date of the constituent session of the parliament in july 2009. in this context, colleagues from some member states have expressed their concern because, on closer inspection, it is clear that, if the constituent meeting is held on 14 july, the five-year period required for some to obtain a pension will not have been fulfilled. in some member states, the basis is not the legislative period but a fixed period because legislative periods vary in length in the member states. i think there is reason to take this into account and to clarify this problem, either with regard to the date of the elections or with regard to the date of the constituent assembly. i would ask the legal services of parliament to do that.
we shall take note of this and now come to the vote. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
the chairman of the council. - thank you very much again, mr. president. allow me to make the following statement on behalf of the council. we have discussed the following amendment adopted by the juri committee of the european parliament. it's a new section 12a. i quote: 'where it is established that a continuing activity has, over a period of time, caused environmental damage liable to give rise to criminal liability under this directive, the question whether the perpetrator of the damage acted intentionally or negligently must be determined by reference to the time at which the perpetrator was aware, or ought to have been aware, of the facts constituting the infringement, and not by reference to the time at which the perpetrator commenced his activity. in this respect, it should be noted that the prior granting of a mandate, licence or concession cannot constitute a defence in such circumstances. " end of quote. we understand the efforts that are being made in this change. these matters are the responsibility of the member states. we believe that member states will take due account of these efforts. thank you so much.
member of the commission. − mr president, this declaration may not amount to the same rhetoric as mr cohn-bendit’s. i have to read this declaration and i quote: ‘the commission took note of the following amendment adopted in the committee on legal affairs: “where a continuing activity proves after a lapse of time to give rise to environmental damage which may in turn give rise to criminal liability under this directive, the question whether or not the perpetrator of the damage acted intentionally or negligently should be determined by reference to the time when the perpetrator became aware, or should have been aware, of the facts constituting the offence and not to the time when the perpetrator commenced its activity. it should be borne in mind in this connection that the prior grant of an authorisation, licence or concession should not constitute a defence in such circumstances.” we fully understand the concerns expressed in this amendment. these matters fall within the competence of member states and we are confident that they will take due account of these important concerns.’
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the two declarations lead me to point out to those colleagues who may not have understood this quite well that these declarations are part of the compromise we have agreed to. we have asked for clarification on two or three problems, and that is what has been done. the subject of the legislative procedure is, of course, only the text as we have agreed it together. i have here in my hand the letter from the chairman of the permanent representatives the slovenian presidency confirming that this text, if adopted today, will also be approved by the council and will thus lead to the desired legislative success in the context of a first reading agreement.
i would like to make one thing clear on the florenz report: amendments nos 5, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 are not acceptable in this report. however, they may be submitted during the examination of the main report. i have also received a number of e-mails on this subject. all the services and the legal service have examined this in detail and have concluded that these amendments are inadmissible for this report. however, they are admissible for the final report.
i have to say that i am very pleased. the answer i received - i received an e-mail on this particular amendment - was the same for all the amendments mentioned. i need to be able to trust that. this amendment no 15 can, however, be included in the main report so that it can then become part of the main report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we agree with the colleagues that we want to give the kurdish language a proper place in turkey. however, paragraph 11 needs to be clarified in one place. i therefore wish to table an oral amendment which i have agreed with the other shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteur. the sentence in the amended version then reads: including real possibilities to learn kurdish within the public and private schooling system and to use it in broadcasting, in daily life and in access to public services.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this was the last calendar vote of this parliamentary term and we have five times blocked attempts to challenge the strasbourg seat and the strasbourg seat alone by unreasonable amendments. but i would still say that we should have a fundamental reform, because it is supposedly about money and co2 emissions. i would like to make it clear that if we focused on the 12 plenary weeks in the year, used them to the full again for five days, and eliminated the superfluous and expensive mini-plenaries in brussels and replaced them with constituency weeks, we would be closer to the citizens and have more time for real work. it would be much cheaper, we would have less co2 emissions, and all of this would be possible by our own decision and without any contract change. as long as there is no change to the treaty, we should make the most reasonable and efficient use of the existing treaty. that is why i think we should go down the road i have suggested.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, the florence report, which i think sums up very well what is currently the scientific consensus. i have voted against the report, however, because on the one hand the climate is an important issue. we must do something here, and i agree. on the other hand, scientific consensus is only momentary consensus. all the scientific consensus of the last few hundred years has been of a transient nature. we have evolved. the present report does not provide sufficient scope for this. secondly, the concrete measures that are being proposed are unilateral. we must ensure that europe does not lose economic power, because we cannot save the world in europe alone. the other countries must be brought into this global problem. only then can the scientific consensus be put into practice. we can't carry the burden alone. in this context, i have missed the action needed to mitigate climate change. we probably can't stop him. in this context, i believe that actions that will change our industrial base in a sustainable way cannot be taken on the basis of preliminary scientific consensus.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the oomen-ruijten report, although it contains many compromise formulations, because it begins with a crucial statement, namely that the negotiation process is a long process with an open outcome. the only reason i could agree was because i say quite clearly that my party, the christian social union, has always been pro-turkish and is pro-turkish. we have fought and worked for the customs union, which was adopted by a majority vote in this house. you could say it was my voice back then. we have supported turkey in nato and in many other areas. but i am very clear that turkey is not a european country and, like mrs roithová, i believe that a privileged partnership, a tailor-made special status, is the right solution. we shall see to that. we should finally stop going down this path of alleged accession. it is not going to happen, and therefore it is more honest and better for both sides to come together as soon as possible and agree to follow a different path, a path of partnership in which both sides are equal, without common institutions, but with common interests and concrete cooperation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. although the ria oomen-ruijten report contains many critical points against turkey, i voted against it because i believe that full membership of turkey cannot be the objective of the accession negotiations. mr posselt has raised this. i think we should start offering turkey this privileged partnership as soon as possible. turkey is not part of europe, nor does it serve as a bridge to the islamic states. in sudan, there has been persecution of christians in darfur for many years. turkey would have had the opportunity to help put an end to these crimes against christians in sudan long ago. i have not noticed until today that turkey has taken any action in this direction. that is why i voted against it, because turkey is not a full member of the european union.
in writing. − climate change is a serious issue and a major challenge for humanity. however, the actual human contribution to climate change is not entirely clear. the current scientific knowledge which is undoubtedly not yet secure and is still very much in flux is not the wisdom of the last resort. the report also mentions some alleged facts which are in fact false. but it is not possible to develop serious, effective, affordable and socially acceptable measures on the basis of conjecture and false claims. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. - i voted against this report in the final vote because i take climate protection seriously and cannot support apodictic and apocalyptic formulations with which we are trying to frighten the citizens of europe. here scientific findings are presented as truths with a probability of 60 to 70%. in the book of revelation, i prefer to ride the white horse with the horsemen than the pale horse. climate change is a sensitive issue that cannot be dealt with in slogans.
the chairman of the council. - if you have we are all still shocked by the human suffering that the devastating cyclone nargis has caused the poor and oppressed people of burma, or myanmar. the european union's deep sympathy was expressed in a number of statements issued following the accident. the european union also immediately pledged funds for urgent humanitarian assistance. the union's commitments have already exceeded eur 60 million. it should be stressed that the amount promised will complement the already existing union aid, which is not small. nevertheless, access to affected areas and rapid distribution of aid remain crucial. last tuesday, the presidency, in close cooperation with commissioner louis michel, convened an extraordinary meeting of the council of the european union. at the meeting, development ministers agreed that there was a risk of an even greater tragedy if the burmese authorities were not prepared to cooperate more closely. the situation remains critical and the council called on the burmese authorities to take urgent measures to facilitate access to aid for people in dire need. the council welcomed the efforts made by commissioner louis michel to convince the authorities in burma and myanmar of the necessity and neutrality of humanitarian aid. at the same time, we regret that the burmese authorities were not prepared to avail themselves of all the assistance that the union and the international community are prepared to offer. the council also expressed its full support for the secretary-general of the united nations and for all initiatives by un bodies to help meet humanitarian needs. we also welcome the scheduled visit of secretary-general ban ki-moon to burma tomorrow. the council has raised the issue of burma in all its political meetings with asian partners in recent days. we have called on asian countries to influence the burmese authorities and convince them of the neutral and impartial nature of international humanitarian aid. on 19 may, the foreign ministers of the asean member states, to whom the european union had previously presented a demarche, met in singapore. in it, she called on countries in the region to influence the burmese authorities to call for the opening of borders for the delivery of humanitarian aid and for humanitarian workers. the humanitarian situation in burma and the obstacles to access for humanitarian experts and aid to the affected area will also be discussed at the general affairs and external relations council on monday, 26 may. burma, or myanmar, continues to be a priority for council discussions, also because of the political situation in the country. the fact that the military junta, despite the enormous scale of the humanitarian disaster, has not cancelled the holding of a national referendum is a matter of concern. we believe that this could lead to irregularities in the process of adopting a new constitution. we are also concerned by reports of increased intimidation during the run-up to the referendum. i would also like to stress that the european union is disappointed that the authorities have not taken into account the efforts of the united nations to achieve a more inclusive and credible transition to democracy. let me assure you that the european union will continue to support the efforts of the united nations. finally, i would like to remind you that on 29 april the union renewed the common position adopted in november 2007. this position, adopted in response to the violent repression of peaceful protests, now includes stricter restrictive measures against burma.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank you for putting burma on the agenda of this session. in view of the scale of the disaster caused by cyclone nargis on 2 may, we have proposed to the presidency that an extraordinary meeting of the council of ministers for external relations of the european union be convened. this council meeting was called as soon as possible by the slovenian presidency, to which i would like to thank, and it took place on 12 may. at this meeting, the european union called for greater cooperation by the burmese authorities to facilitate access to and distribution of international humanitarian aid. i have decided to respond directly to this call by going to burma myself from 15 to 16 may. during my mission, which i have made clear is strictly humanitarian and not political in nature, i had the opportunity to meet the burmese authorities, representatives of the humanitarian organizations present in burma, and i was able to make a field visit, supervised by the authorities, to the disaster areas around yangon. i had, for two and a half hours, rather close talks and discussions with the minister of planning - who was obviously the most authoritative, if not the most authoritarian, personage of the three i met - the minister of social welfare and the minister of health. it is clear from my mission that the burmese authorities remain very reluctant to create the operational conditions normally required for a humanitarian response that is international in scope. it is equally clear that any approach to impose international humanitarian assistance on the burmese authorities seems to me, given the means at our disposal today, doomed to failure and perhaps even counterproductive. all the humanitarian organizations there told me this and confirmed to me that the problem is obviously not the lack of organizations there, nor even the lack of money, because of course the lack of resources also depends on the access of international experts and international professionals, but the lack of access. my mission certainly contributed, in a modest way, to opening a very small gap that allowed for the gradual creation of a minimal humanitarian space for international humanitarian assistance. the burmese authorities have partially responded to the various specific requests: for example, visas for commission experts have been extended by two weeks. we had visas, these people had visas for three days, they were extended for two weeks. we asked for a month. we also clarified a situation that seemed really serious, that in some places the local burmese authorities were demanding that even local staff, that is even operators that our agencies are occupying, un agencies are occupying or ngos are occupying, that local staff also have to present a permit, that is a written authorization, which was obviously, in most cases, impossible. this has been clarified and, obviously, no permits are required for local staff. in any case, it is no longer necessary to travel to the disaster areas, and especially to the airport in pathein. i also asked for a second airport to be opened for the landing of planes carrying material goods, the pathein airport, which is a military airport. i was told that this was not possible because the technical standards of the control tower were not in line with international standards and that it would not make the job any easier, as the communication routes between yangon and the delta, which is the most affected area, are more car-friendly and easier. unfortunately, i haven't been authorized to visually verify this sort of thing. i think it is important to continue to maintain strong international pressure, both from the countries of the region and from the international community as a whole. i must say that in the discussion i had with the authorities, i also specifically asked - i made five specific and specific requests, i will probably tell you about them in a moment - that they allow doctors and medical personnel from the countries in the region to deploy to the most affected areas and on the day i left, they got that permission. so there are 140 doctors who have deployed, including medical personnel from laos, cambodia, india, bangladesh and thailand. so they were able to deploy to the worst affected areas. the role of the countries of the region is crucial and i had the opportunity to have a rather long conversation with secretary-general ban ki-moon when i was waiting for my plane back to bangkok. i passed on all these messages and told him how i felt and, most importantly, how my mission had gone. the un secretary-general shared this analysis but made two concrete suggestions: to deploy a joint un/asean coordinator for humanitarian assistance and to organise a donor conference co-chaired by the un and asean on 24 and 25 may in bangkok. following the visit of the un humanitarian coordinator, john holmes, in recent days, secretary-general ban ki-moon will visit burma tomorrow to discuss the delivery of international aid. the humanitarian situation in the country remains dire, with the risk that the first disaster caused by the cyclone will be followed by a second humanitarian disaster due to the risk of famine, as crops have been destroyed, and epidemics among the survivors, whose living conditions are deplorable. there's a risk of an outbreak. at the time we were there, the world health organization didn't see the risk of cholera, but there were a lot of children who were suffering from diarrhea and so on. so there was a risk of an epidemic due to water pollution. there is a risk of famine. this area is the rice barn and all the stocks have been destroyed. a practical problem arises: these lands should be planted in such a way as to ensure the october harvest. the time limit is therefore three to four weeks at most. now, a number of people who are displaced in temporary camps, as they say, some of these people don't want to go back to their land, for all sorts of reasons, and others want to go back but they need to have access to seeds of a particular variety because all the land has been salinized, so we need plants that are much stronger and fertilizer. i have therefore tried to engage in a constructive and practical dialogue with the authorities on this matter. the idea was that the undp micro-credit scheme could be used as a financial channel. we're busy discussing it right now. it's not going fast, i have to tell you. the commission responded very quickly, with a first emergency decision of €2 million adopted on 5 may. you know that i have the right to release, without going through any procedure, three million euros right now. so, of course, since we had no identification, since no one could identify it, we started with two, then we decided on another five million euro for food aid and we took an additional emergency measure of ten million euro. we are of course prepared to do more on the basis of needs assessments and assurances in terms of monitoring aid. when i left after two and a half hours of discussion with the authorities, i had them send me a note which contained, in writing and in very concrete terms, the various requests i had made. my first request was for an extension of the visa for the staff who were temporarily assigned to this mission, the commission staff. there, we got two weeks. i also asked them to make it clear once and for all, and to let our local authorities know, that they no longer require burmese personnel working in our agencies and among our operators to hold a permit, an authorization to travel in the country. that point has been clarified, obviously. i applied for multiple entry visas for six months to enable ngos working with eu funding to triple their international staff. when i left the country, there were about a hundred pending visa applications for un agencies and a little over a hundred for ngos. i asked that we be kept informed regularly, some have been released since then, but we are far from what was asked. i also applied for visas and travel permits to visit the delta and to ensure that sufficient operators could be mobilized. secondly, i asked, as i told you, that they could give the authorizations quickly to the doctors in the region and to the medical staff in the region. well, it looks like we've been heard. as for the pathein airport which could have served as a sort of hub for the redistribution of products arriving by the international community's planes, this was a manifest non-existence which was at the same time justified, according to their argument, by the fact that the means and equipment for control were not in line with international standards and that, according to them, it is more efficient to come through yangon which i doubt, because yangon, by the time i was there, was already cluttered and had a number of problems that were a little bit watered down, too. i'm not sure that it was my intervention that made it go away, it's simply because they themselves didn't know how to run the airport in yangon. and i have the impression that it was for reasons of institutional comfort at home that it was conducted in this way. well, that's a very frustrating assignment, i must say. i feel that there is a total distrust of the international community. some a priori are extremely entrenched. clearly, at times it may seem as if we are in a deaf dialogue. it is extremely difficult to reach the conscience and mind of the person in front of you. the meeting went very well, because for two and a half hours we really debated, quite politely, but quite hard, of course, because there is still a pressing question: why refuse international operators who are so necessary to help the populations? i have also mentioned the duty to protect, in particular by this means, which nevertheless posed a problem of principle. at that time i was told that there were questions that did not warrant an answer. here's how it happened. i was sad, of course, that more concrete things had not come to light, but i do not hide from you that i was quite happy to be back in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commissioner has described in a convincing and graphic way how the military government in power in burma is cynically and brutally abandoning its own people. i would like to address the asean organization and the asean member countries. the european parliament has enjoyed friendly relations with the parliamentarians of the asean countries for many years. the asean has not long ago signed a new charter which explicitly calls for the application of human rights. it is clear that asean shares responsibility for its member state burma and that the asean countries' standing in the world will suffer if they allow the burmese military clique to continue to act as it is doing at the moment. i appeal to the asean countries, also in the name of good and friendly relations with the european union, to do everything possible to convince the burmese military junta that it must be able to help its people. as i said, this is also the responsibility and the opportunity of the asean countries. they will be asked about this responsibility and it will affect our relations with asean whether or not they assert their possibilities here. this doesn't have to happen in public appeals. there are other options. but the european union expects burma's neighbouring countries in particular to do all they can to change the attitude of the regime there.
i have to say, madam president, the scale of the crisis in burma is tragic: we have over 100 000 dead, 200 000 missing and over 2 million homeless in a population of 54 million. the irrawaddy delta is considered the country's rice bowl, and it is central to food production. the flood wave went 35 kilometers deep into the country, flooded fields, and as a result, a large part of these fields will be salted. this means that in the medium term, the current humanitarian catastrophe will be compounded by a crisis in food production in the irrawaddy delta. the people of burma are in dire need of immediate and long-term help from the international community. it must be enforced against the generals under all circumstances. the blockade of emergency aid by a government is a scandal unprecedented in international history. the victims of the cyclone are being held hostage by a paranoid and murderous militant group that has been ruling the country for decades. last september the people's and monks' movement for democracy was bloodily crushed, thousands were killed and deported, and now tens of thousands are dying because they refuse to help the population. they're being killed for refusing to help. this regime is at the top of a united nations blacklist as a murderous regime, and the members of the junta should be brought before the international criminal court.
i have to say, madam president, 130,000 dead, over two million homeless: this is the bitter reality in burma. and there's a great famine coming. floods spread diarrheal pathogens, such as salmonella, rapidly. diseases such as typhus and cholera are on the horizon, malaria, dengue fever. children are especially at risk, as their immune systems are weaker and their bodies dry out more quickly. the victims of the disaster need clean drinking water, which can only be obtained permanently by good treatment plants. they need emergency shelter, including to prevent the spread of respiratory diseases. the military junta is still not ready to accept western help. commissioner michel has just given us a very impressive confirmation of this. she's putting tens of thousands of lives at risk. how can we act responsibly? we are not going to be able to do that. i'm sure you will. but also a change in international law, with limited state sovereignty in the face of a humanitarian crisis? this is a difficult thing to do, and the chinese would clearly reject it in the un security council. you are one of the few allies of the burmese dictators. but they must do everything possible, just as the asean countries have done. hartmut nassauer has pointed out that the long-established international expert groups and aid are coming into the country. apparently, this is why myanmar is blocking the many aid actions of the community of values in order to influence the donor conference, to receive millions of dollars and to dispose of it on its own. it's like the buddhist monk uprising in september 2007, when the burmese regime treated peaceful protesters in an inhuman and brutal way, and then imposed a months-long media blackout, which was totalitarian and against the interests of its own people. this alleged state sovereignty is totally unsovereign and totally inhuman.
the chairman of the council. - i would like to thank all those who took part in this debate, which has shown me that there is broad agreement in this esteemed parliament on some of the essential elements, elements which are also essential components of the council's approach to the situation in burma. first of all, it is a concern, first of all, a deep concern about the humanitarian situation in the country. secondly, the responsibility of the burmese authorities to deal with the consequences of the catastrophic cyclone, and in this context their responsibility to ensure that humanitarian aid reaches those who need it. i would like to stress that the council of the european union is determined to continue its efforts to ensure that humanitarian aid reaches those who need it. and so she's going to use every avenue, every possible mechanism that's available. firstly, my own, and here i would like to reiterate on behalf of the council our appreciation and support for the efforts of the esteemed commissioner michel. on the other hand, the european union will continue its efforts in the framework of the united nations and in the framework of regional organisations such as asean. i would like to reiterate that, before the asean foreign ministers' meeting which took place the day before yesterday, the european union made a visit to the asean countries, where it outlined its expectations and its proposals on the situation in burma. and on 19 may, a statement containing some encouraging elements was adopted following the asean meeting in singapore. let me mention just a few of them. first, asean foreign ministers agreed to establish a coordination mechanism under the aegis of asean for humanitarian aid. secondly, the authorities of burma and myanmar have agreed to accept immediate assistance in the form of medical teams from other asean countries. and thirdly, the authorities of burma and myanmar have expressed their willingness to accept the expert assistance of international and regional agencies in addressing the consequences of this humanitarian disaster. i would also mention the decision, taken jointly by the asean countries and the united nations, to convene a donor conference in yangon on sunday 25 may. let me end by thanking you again for the views i have heard in this debate. i assure you that they will be very useful in our preparations for the debate which we expect to take place at the general affairs and external relations council this monday. thank you so much.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i understand and fully share the general sentiment that has been expressed, which is of course both critical and frustrating. you have mentioned, and almost all the speakers have mentioned, the use of the security council, the notion of the duty to protect, the right to interfere in some way, the limits of national sovereignty and, in general, you have called for sanctions. because that's what it's really about. i would like to add, however, the idea of the means available to the international community to do all that you have said and to enforce all these principles. it is a subject, nothing more difficult, because it raises the fundamental question of respect for international humanitarian law, a subject which we, the commission and the european parliament, have decided to deal with, probably at a large international meeting with specific cases, etc., in september. so there's a broad consensus on analysis, we all agree that it's unacceptable, we all agree that it's inhumane, we all agree that we need better access, and so on. what i would like to suggest, however - and this is obviously a personal position - is that in the meantime we should try to capitalise on, or at least make the most of, what we can get out of the donor conference, to which the donors are invited, on the initiative of secretary-general ban ki-moon, namely the european union, asean, and, within the framework of this initiative or proposal, to appoint a joint eu/asean coordinator. this is the immediate. obviously, this is going to be difficult. if the international community is to be at all consistent, if these two initiatives do not produce results, it will be difficult to pretend that there is nothing else to do, and at that point the international community, whether at the united nations or at other levels, will have to think of somewhat different means. because - and i'll end with this - what is obviously most frustrating in some ways, what discredits, or at least weakens, i would say, the moral duty of interference, the very concept, the application of the concept of the duty to protect, is that beyond the declarations of principle that we are all forced to make because they obviously correspond to our feeling, they correspond to our culture, they correspond to our sense of democracy and human rights, etc. there are the means that we have or the means that we are politically capable of implementing. because that is the truth, that is the political courage we must seek. because it is too easy to say: "we must intervene, we must send this, we must force, we must do all this". yes, all right, but how? are our various countries politically capable or prepared to take the full responsibility - using, if necessary, coercion - and do we have the capacity to do so? that's a real question to ask. i agree with everything that has been said here, but we must draw the conclusions from our generous positions. we must draw the conclusions from our courageous positions. that's why i would say there are two sides to the debate. there is the general debate on which we all agree and there is the immediate debate. i believe that the immediate task is to give full support and to put a secretary-general in the best possible position to ensure that the dialogue still has meaning and that he can make the most of these two initiatives. that's kind of what i'd suggest. i doubt that statements, threats or very harsh language, here and now - even if it is necessary - can make a difference. i don't think so, unfortunately, but i'm not sure. so i think we must accompany, we must fully support, the two initiatives of secretary-general ban ki-moon.
the chairman of the council. − we follow with great concern the developments in china following the devastating earthquake which devastated a large part of the country, in particular the province of sichuan. it is estimated that about 10 million people were affected. the toll of death is rising by the hour, as hope of rescuing survivors from the rubble is fading. the current death toll has risen to 50,000 people. this is a real disaster. more lives might be saved if rescuers could reach the affected area. they are hampered by objective problems and by the lack of appropriate equipment. additional damage caused by the earthquake to many dams is a problem. as a result, the survivors in sichuan province are in grave danger of flooding. the chinese government has requested basic equipment they need for the rescue. the chinese ministry of health also expects an increased need for medicines and modern medical equipment, as survivors need to be provided with urgent treatment for injuries. already, a relief effort of tremendous proportions is under way. more than 12 tons of supplies have already been airdropped to ease the distress in the affected area. there are helicopters delivering rescue and relief. local officials said that at this time, what they need most are blankets, tents, food and satellite phones. as you know and as has been mentioned today, the council held an extraordinary meeting last tuesday. we extend our deepest condolences to the chinese people for the appalling loss of life and destruction in this earthquake. the statement also expressed our heartfelt sympathy to those who lost loved ones, were injured, or suffered severe material damage in this disaster. the international community responded quickly and offered china help. in the absence of any comments with regard to the exporting producers concerned, the conclusions set out in recitals (47) to (48) of the provisional regulation are confirmed. many foreign teams, including those from japan, taiwan, korea, and australia, are already in the country or are on their way. the european union wishes to provide assistance to the affected population. the european commission, as well as most member states, have responded to the needs of the affected population to a greater extent and are ready to continue to offer their assistance. thank you so much.
member of the commission. - madam president, i would also like to thank you for including on the agenda a debate on the humanitarian situation in the sichuan province of china following the earthquake of 12 may. president barroso, mrs ferrero-waldner and i have expressed our sympathy and underlined the will of the european people to help the chinese people. the mobilization of the chinese authorities and the military in particular was swift and massive. we must say that they handled the crisis effectively, and we must congratulate them on that. in view of the scale of the damage and the needs, china appealed for international assistance on 13 may, and the european union responded very quickly to this request. the commission sent an echo humanitarian expert on a week-long mission to the affected area. on the basis of the expert's information, the commission adopted a first emergency decision on 16 may for a sum of eur 2 million. this will enable the red cross to provide tents, blankets, clean water and basic necessities. the commission's civil protection mechanism coordination and evaluation team is also on the ground in chengdu. it is in contact with local authorities to ensure that european aid reaches those in need quickly. member states also responded quickly by contributing to the emergency appeal of the red cross federation, sending emergency supplies and offering the assistance of search and rescue teams. the european union's total contribution is already more than eur 10 million. the european commission, the jim and relex work together and keep the member states and china informed of the assistance from the european union. it should be noted that the chinese authorities strictly control access permissions to the field for international teams. based on our assessments, the main needs are water and sanitation, temporary shelter, basic necessities, medicines and medical equipment. unfortunately, the many strong aftershocks have severely disrupted rescue operations. the main fear is that vital infrastructure such as dams, dikes or power stations will break or collapse, creating a second humanitarian catastrophe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply. my group shares with the council and the commission the sorrow and sympathy of the chinese people over this dramatic earthquake on 12 may this year. we would like to express our deepest sympathy to all those who have lost relatives or have suffered injuries as a result of the earthquake. we also welcome the rapid rescue measures taken by the chinese authorities and we welcome the chinese government's willingness to accept foreign aid. i would add that we hope that it will continue to do so in the future, effectively on the spot. we also welcome the fact that the chinese government has allowed foreign media to cover the earthquake in detail in this case, and we hope that the chinese government will allow foreign media to cover the reconstruction work in the affected areas. we particularly regret the fact that so many students have died as a result of the collapse of public schools and we support the statement by the chinese authorities to investigate the causes of possible non-seismic construction of schools and to hold those responsible to account. we are prepared, above all, to give the chinese people the support they need. they don't need a lot of money, because they have the largest currency reserves in the world. what they need is practical help, and we europeans and the member states can offer that practical help, and we thank the commissioner for the aid measures he has already initiated. we will support all activities to help people in disaster areas and to help them rebuild their villages. some may need to be relocated to other areas. this is where we should provide the help that is needed. it is a truly great human tragedy, and we sympathize with the people and the entire chinese people.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the public minutes of silence that were issued nationwide, the people rose up, the people on the streets, in the buses, in the shops, and their faces left no doubt that they did so in a way that was very different from the usual collective decrees of internal participation. why is that? because the shock and the unimaginable suffering of the people in the crisis regions could be reported on the state television program around the clock. this has changed the sense of belonging in china. the value of the individual has been reasserted - even by the government. until now, the only major national reference points have been economic developments and, at the moment, the olympic games, but in the face of the present catastrophe, this horizon seems to many to be quite unrealistic. what should the international community do? it has already been said in part that, in addition to the dispatch of relief supplies, emergency plans and, of course, technical equipment, we should combine the experience gained in the major earthquakes in armenia - over 100 000 dead, 1 damaged nuclear power plant - in turkey - tens of thousands dead, in china - a few hundred thousand dead - in 1976 and then develop best practice for the international community and apply it to china. it has already been mentioned that what could happen to the dams should lead us to investigate the seismic safety of public buildings, hospitals and schools. there is much that can be done here and appropriate guidance given as to what rules should apply to earthquake-resistant construction methods. as a member of the chinese delegation, i naturally join the condolences of my predecessors.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not this debate is overdue. it's good that we're leading them today. depleted uranium is used by many countries, especially western countries, as a munition in their wars, because du has a strong penetrating power, especially against tanks. but du ammunition is both highly toxic chemically - that is, toxic - and radioactive. du ammunition is also a waste product of the nuclear industry, resulting from the enrichment of uranium or the production of nuclear weapons. the problem is also the use of nuclear energy. du is a long-acting weapon. du is released at high temperatures when it hits a fixed target and burns to du oxide, producing fine alpha-radioactive toxic dust that can be easily inhaled and dispersed by wind and water. this dust is difficult to remove from the environment and becomes trapped in the lungs when inhaled. there's the gulf war syndrome, the balkan syndrome, and it's the same phenomenon over and over again, that soldiers obviously get cancer, for example, lung cancer. there is also an increase in such cancers in the population in the areas where these weapons have been used. interestingly, du ammunition as such has very little military effectiveness, but carries a very large number of incalculable risks. nato used du ammunition in the war of aggression against yugoslavia. in iraq, the us army has used du munitions - a total of 300 tons. there's an increase in the number of malnourished children, especially in baghdad. the afghan government has now called for an investigation into the use of du ammunition in afghanistan, and they say that the us military did not inform them that du ammunition was used mainly in eastern afghanistan. in the lebanon war du munitions were used by israel in particular, and in the first gulf war du munitions were also used very extensively. we're talking about 66,000 soldiers who are contaminated. the problem is obvious. meanwhile, the first veterans are receiving pensions as a result of this du munition, such as kenny duncan from the uk. if du munitions were cosmetics or a food-related substance, they would have been banned long ago. soldiers are instructed to wear protective suits when dealing with du ammunition. the euromil soldiers' association is calling for a ban on these weapons. belgium has banned du ammunition. congratulations on this. in the united nations disarmament committee vote, 122 countries voted in favor, 35 abstained, and 6 voted against, including france, great britain, the netherlands, and the czech republic. what we need is a ban on the use and production of du munitions.
the chairman of the council. - thank you for that additional question. i would stress that this resolution must also take account of the fact that it is a subject, a matter for which the member states are responsible. the council can only speak in general terms, of course it encourages the member states to comply with the provisions as contained in the said resolution or as contained in the standards developed by the international labour organisation. all the countries of the european union are also members of the international labour organisation. thank you so much.
the chairman of the council. - thank you for that additional question. the problem of higher food prices is certainly a major problem and this esteemed assembly has already organized a debate on this subject. the council is determined to do everything possible to deal effectively with the problem of higher food prices. to deal effectively with this problem, however, it is necessary first to identify the reasons for food price increases, and the reasons are certainly many. the factors behind the rise in food prices are many and varied and are therefore dealt with by the council in its various formations. the agriculture and fisheries council recently discussed this issue and adopted guidelines to help reduce pressure on food price increases. biofuels were mentioned here in this very room some time ago as one of the factors that would contribute to higher food prices. the council is aware of the potential impact of biofuels and is therefore intensively developing so-called sustainable criteria for the production of biofuels. among the sustainability criteria there is certainly the social impact criterion, which we will try to take into account. the work is not yet finished, but it is going on intensely. however, i would stress that the impact of biofuels, or the fact that biofuels are a factor in the rise in food prices, is certainly among the less important factors, and there are quite a few other factors which are more important, but which are also being addressed intensively and in parallel by the council. thank you so much.
the chairman of the council. - on the question of the esteemed mr. evans, i would like to say the following. the european union welcomed the fact that cuba had signed the united nations covenant on civil and political rights and the united nations covenant on economic, social and cultural rights. in its statement of 4 march this year, the presidency gave a positive assessment of the cuban signature of these pacts. when cuba became a signatory to these legally binding international instruments, it naturally assumed the obligations arising from them. the presidency encouraged cuba to continue such positive actions and to further strengthen cooperation with international structures in the field of human rights protection. the european union will closely monitor the implementation of these legally binding human rights commitments by cuba. in its june 2007 cuba conclusions, the council called on the cuban government to implement the political and economic reforms needed to improve the daily lives of the cuban people. the european union recognises the right of the cuban people to decide their own future. the union remains ready to contribute constructively to the future development of all sectors of cuban society, including through development cooperation actions. however, the european union continues to remind the cuban authorities of their specific obligations to promote and respect the human rights and freedoms of their citizens. this aspect is also important because of cuba's membership of the united nations human rights council. the council of the european union is continuing its discussions on the possibilities for re-establishing a comprehensive and open dialogue with cuba, in accordance with the council conclusions of june last year. but whether that happens depends on cuba's willingness to agree to the proposal for political dialogue. the presidency calls on cuba to take the important next step of ratifying the un charters, without reservations that undermine their nature and effectiveness. thank you so much.
the chairman of the council. - thank you, mr. howit, for that additional question. i cannot, i cannot say that we are already seeing concrete changes, but we are seeing the potential for change and the potential for a new chapter in the relations between the european union and cuba, which will also be discussed at one of the next general affairs and external relations council meetings. we hope that this potential will be harnessed, that this can be realized. but again, that is also, or more importantly, up to the cuban side. thank you so much.
the chairman of the council. - first, the question of the lady of palestine. the fact is that the number of political prisoners, the number of political prisoners has decreased and the eu approves of that. but the european union will continue to demand the release of all political prisoners from the cuban authorities. this is also, or more particularly, because that state is a member of the human rights council and certain obligations naturally follow from this. the question of human rights will certainly be one of the fundamental issues in our dialogue with cuba. and here i turn to mr. martin's comment. i assure him that the presidency and the council will not, will not pass up the opportunity, if, if and when it presents itself, to re-establish dialogue. but the human rights situation will certainly have to be the subject of this dialogue, and we hope that cuba will accept this proposal for dialogue. thank you so much.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have no understanding at all for the council's being so calm. i've been in this house a long time. the question time with the council used to be at 9 p.m. and the council was here until 10.30 p.m. the council then asked that question time be moved to 6 or 7 p.m. we did so in respect of the council. that was the first mistake. since then, question time has always started late, and the council has to leave at 7 p.m. like a bricklayer. the slovenian presidency is not to blame, this is a general problem which we really need to discuss with the council. the council can stay in this beautiful city of strasbourg for six months until thursday and be at our disposal in the evening.
the chairman of the council. - thank you very much for your speech, mr president. i would just like to say to the honourable member that the council respects and complies with the decisions taken by the european parliament, including, of course, in consultation with the council, but it has been decided that question time to the council will last one hour. it is also decided that, as a rule, this time shall be between six and seven o'clock on wednesday afternoon and the council shall adapt to this and respect it and shall continue to do so. thank you so much.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to inform the council that question time normally lasts one and a half hours and that the bureau always tells us, when we complain, that it is an exception that question time lasts only one hour. we have this exception every time now.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the commissioner is very well aware of this. first of all, let me thank my colleague romana jordan cizelj here. in her report she has really touched on all aspects of modern industrial policy, particularly the fact that it is a question of framework conditions. i'm very grateful to her. we worked well together here. in your explanatory statement, mrs cizelj, you say that, on the whole, industry in the eu is healthy and dynamic. yes, we are even experiencing a renaissance of the so-called old economy. i myself come from a country that is very heavily industrialised. the steel industry, for example, no one expected it to boom again. we're the best in the world at juice and power. the industrial situation is robust and our flagship, the euro, has indeed guided us through this situation. however, we note that despite the good industrial base and the renewed investment in the european area, there is a change of tide. there is a rapid technological change. the question is, how do we deal with it? is now the right time to deal with this in the midterm review? without raw materials and cheap labour - we have neither - we are faced with a competitive pressure that we cannot withstand unless we are creative. i would therefore like to start by congratulating the commission on having made 2009 the year of creativity and innovation. what does that mean? innovation, we know, has to be much more about making money out of knowledge. we have set up the eit, or it will be set up soon, and that is a good basis. but the creative people in the world are not just leaving europe, they're leaving the united states as well. you should read the book by richard florida, who's thinking about it. what's happening to the creative minds of the world? the three t's that creatives need to get somewhere are: technology promotion, talent and tolerance. the question is whether we in europe are sufficiently satisfying these three t's. i believe that we have created good conditions with fp7 and with the eit, but it is not enough. we have to do a lot more. the three t's need more money. the clusters are a real initiative. however, the right issues must be chosen, the cluster initiative must be coherent, as must all eu policies, and it must be appropriate and balanced. the car industry is an example of the lack of coherence and the over-turning of the screws. this has something to do with our climate protection policy, which is becoming more and more a virtue terrorism, which is overwhelming europe with a regulation of lifestyles, which in some cases overturns the screw. how else can the co2 emissions from the exhaust be punished 24 times more severely than the co2 emissions from the chimney? we must ensure, commissioner verheugen, that the eu's policy is coherent. we cannot be the leading market and have 80% of the world market share in the premium car sector and then walk away from it. we must be careful to be consistent here!
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. dear mr. sacconi, you've really embarrassed me a little bit. you know that i was not the lead on what you criticized, but i share with my colleague dimas the overall responsibility for the reach project. that's why i thought it was appropriate to be here tonight and to confirm to you exactly what you've been suggesting. the commission will make the necessary clarifications in the procedure - i emphasize the word 'necessary' - and i am extremely grateful to you for bringing these problems and issues to our attention and for making a very personal and important contribution to helping us to solve these problems. so what do we do? the commission's internal procedures for validating and authorising new alternative test methods will be significantly simplified and accelerated. to this end, the commission will firstly introduce a preliminary legal relevance assessment which will help us to focus scientific validation on those test methods which are most suitable for subsequent regulatory approval. secondly, we will reduce the number of steps and introduce clear deadlines to simplify and speed up the current process. this applies in particular to the tasks of the advisory committees and the consultation of the member states. thirdly, all the important procedural decisions which are the responsibility of the commission services will be taken by the directors-general themselves. fourthly, we will ensure greater transparency in the new procedure. a website to be set up by the joint research centre will provide continuous information on the state of play of proposed alternative procedures. negative decisions, i.e. decisions to discontinue the examination of a particular examination procedure, will also be explained on this website. this makes it possible for anyone to follow the progress of each procedure closely. the commission will also take measures to optimise the institutions involved in the validation and accreditation process. the first is to improve the cooperation and interaction between agencies such as the european chemicals agency and the european medicines agency, whose networking we are promoting. the commission has also made a number of proposals to improve cooperation with the oecd. that's what we're gonna do. this includes the deployment of staff to work on the oecd guidance programme, but also the provision of funds for the relevant oecd secretariat. the specific focus is and remains the regulatory approval of alternative test methods. at the same time, we will monitor progress in each individual case within the oecd to deal with regulatory approval within the community in the event of undue delays at international level. mr sacconi, you know from the joint work on reach how much i am particularly keen to see alternative methods advanced very quickly. we have always agreed that we do not want to allow the most advanced chemical legislation in the world, which we have created with reach, to lead to such a huge increase in the number of animals used in experiments. that is why you can count on my personal commitment to this cause.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. my group supports the resolution. i would also like to thank mr sacconi for his work. reach, you just mentioned, is supposed to be the most dynamic, best and most modern chemicals legislation in the world, just as we envisioned in our lisbon process. it is therefore important that the implementation now proceeds with exactly the same dynamic and speed. here too we can make a very significant contribution to reducing bureaucracy by streamlining structures and increasing speed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's research programmes are not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. vertebrate animals and primates are particularly protected. it is essential to speed up and simplify the validation of alternative and non-animal testing. in order to save time, individual decisions must be possible. in the implementation of the programme, it is therefore necessary to make a preselection of test methods in the sense of a degressive quality, i.e. the most promising one is validated first, the reduction of the tiered models is important, at the same time reducing the tiers, the involvement of decision-makers at the level of the directorates-general, the better networking of our agencies, as well as transparency and timely information also to parliament. i am very hopeful at the moment, also after the letter that you, mr verheugen, together with colleagues dimas and potočnik, have written to us, that we are moving quickly and swiftly along this path and that reach, through its legislation, also confirms that it is truly the most dynamic chemical law in the world.
, in writing. i very much welcome the initiative of the european parliament to give an intensive opinion on the commission's animal health strategy for the european union (2007-2013). clear requirements are important for both human and animal health. the motto of the animal health strategy is 'prevention rather than cure', and preventive vaccination is the best way to protect animals! we therefore urge that in future adequate space be given to vaccination and adequate controls be put in place in the event of outbreaks. to ensure the prevention of animal diseases, it is necessary to ensure that research, science and innovation are promoted and knowledge disseminated. the animal health strategy must cover all animals in the eu. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. finally, biosecurity is an important issue in the framework of the animal health strategy, which starts at the eu's external borders and extends to all stakeholders. the risk of spreading pathogens to europe through the import or introduction of animals from other countries must be minimised. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. the eu has an important role to play in ensuring that the health risks to animals and therefore to humans are as low as possible, by means of the necessary controls.
member of the commission. - madam president, mr rapporteur, members of the european parliament, i would like to welcome the work of parliament on the proposal for a revision of the regulation on the european training foundation and, in particular, to thank the committee on employment and the rapporteur for this report, mr lehideux. as you know, the european training foundation was set up in 1990 to support the implementation of the phare programme, an external aid programme in the field of vocational training. it now covers the countries of the former tacis, cards and meda programmes. the european union's policies in the field of education and training and in the field of external relations are developing and, to take account of these developments, the etf regulation therefore needs to be modernised. the commission proposal on which you have worked is therefore the result. our proposal does not provide for the introduction of new activities for the etf. rather, it aims to better define its functions under a broader thematic mandate that integrates the notion of human capital development, particularly in the fields of lifelong education and training. the proposal also renews the geographical scope of the foundation in line with the new instruments of the union's external relations policy. in this new context, the functions of the etf need to be adapted accordingly while remaining focused on clearly defined priorities. i am grateful to the european parliament for its positive response to the commission's proposal. thanks to good cooperation between the three institutions, we have been able to find satisfactory solutions for all the institutions, including on very sensitive issues such as the composition of the administrative board and how the european parliament can provide specific expertise. the commission therefore accepts without hesitation the consolidated text as it emerged from last week's constructive trilogue. madam president, i would like to conclude, on behalf of my colleague mr jan figel, by stressing the importance of our successful cooperation, because it will enable the european training foundation to benefit from its new legal basis in good time and thus to provide more effective assistance to the countries benefiting from its action, which is, after all, obviously the aim of this exercise.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i should like to begin by thanking the council and the commission for the constructive negotiations, with the greatest thanks, of course, to the rapporteur, mr lehideux. in the committee and in the trilogue we have found a compromise for the institution in turin, which the new regulation is intended to rebuild completely. our main concern in the direction of the turin agency is to strengthen the relations between the foundation and the european parliament and the efficiency of the work of the institution as a whole. as a parliament, we attach great importance to the promotion of vocational training in europe and we want to be able in future not only to assess the work of the foundation as a monitoring body, so to speak ex post, but also to be able to participate in the contents and the design of the programmes in advance and to express our views. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the last point, we have found a good way in the committee, on the proposal of the epp group. the rapporteur has said it: article 10 of the new text provides that the director is to be appointed on the basis of a short list of at least three candidates to be submitted by the commission. before being appointed, the candidate shall be heard by the committee or committees responsible in parliament. the problem of the composition of the executive board is more difficult and has not been resolved satisfactorily by my group in the present compromise. the solution in this article 7, whereby parliament can appoint three experts without voting rights, is not appropriate. we therefore consider it necessary that parliament should be able to appoint three experts to the executive board, who must of course have the right to vote, just as all the other members. in order to ensure the efficiency of the work of the executive board, we also consider it necessary to limit the total number of members of the executive board. we do not think it is mandatory for each eu member state to send a representative. we should rather allow two-thirds of the member states to be represented, in accordance with the rotation rules of the lisbon treaty. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective. a board of directors is not a general meeting of shareholders, but is supposed to represent them in day-to-day decision-making and to make quick decisions. i would therefore like to appeal once again to the council - which is unfortunately not here - to reconsider its position. in the interests of efficiency, i therefore ask you to support our amendment no 10.
the conference of presidents has asked me, on the basis of a proposal from the middle east working party, to make a statement to you on lebanon. the european parliament has followed with great concern the recent political developments in lebanon, which have seemed to be at an impasse and increasingly accompanied by violence and bloodshed. we therefore welcome with great relief and confidence the comprehensive and fundamental agreement reached by the political leaders of lebanon in doha, at a time when the european parliament is about to adopt a resolution on this subject. there is a compromise text which will be voted on shortly, and mr onesta will be chairing the sitting on it. this important political breakthrough, achieved thanks to the skillful and effective mediation of the arab league and, above all, qatar, paves the way for the election of general suleiman as president of the republic of lebanon in the coming days, the formation of a new government of national unity and the adoption of an improved electoral law. in view of the positive reaction of the neighbouring countries and other countries concerned, the european parliament calls on all parties to implement the agreement to the full. we reiterate our unwavering support for the legitimate constitutional political institutions of lebanon and the lebanese army and their efforts to ensure the stability, sovereignty and territorial integrity of lebanon. we look forward to the resumption of normal parliamentary relations with our lebanese colleagues, with a lebanese parliament that meets regularly and exercises its democratic rights and duties. (applause from the centre)
mr president, there are no amendments to the resolution on burma on our voting lists. we shall only vote on the resolution as a whole.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. mr president, may i read this: 'recalling the potentially increased risk associated with the transport of live animals over longer distances, considers that more careful checks should be carried out to ensure that only completely healthy animals are transported and that it should be examined whether transport of slaughter and fattening animals this is the difference can be limited to a maximum of 9 hours.'
a writer. the commission has already done so. the violent crackdown on ngos, opposition and independent journalists in minsk and other belarusian cities at the end of march represents a dramatic deterioration of the political situation of an already authoritarian and dictatorial regime. the only german political foundation authorised in minsk had to close. critical newsrooms are being raided and intimidated. the right to vote, to stand as a candidate and to hold public office is severely restricted. opposition politicians are systematically persecuted and sentenced to long prison terms. civil society movements are suppressed, whether through opaque ngo or extremism laws or violent repression of peaceful assemblies. we must also take action to promote political culture in belarus. the encounter with democratic structures is particularly important for the future of the country, especially for young people. the reopening of the belarusian exile university of humanities in vilnius, which provides refuge for politically persecuted students, was a step in the right direction. now we must have visa facilitation, as this house has repeatedly called for. the eu cannot restrict people's freedom of movement by charging a visa fee of 60 euros. this is almost a third of the belarusian monthly income and therefore unaffordable for many. what we have done with ukraine, moldova and russia, we should do with belarus. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i think we are dealing with belarus for the ninth time now and we must continue to do so until belarus is represented here in the european parliament in strasbourg with members. we urgently need three crucial advances: firstly, we urge the government of that country to release the political prisoners at last: the political prisoners who have been held hitherto, like mr kazulin, but also the many new ones who have been added because they have exercised basic rights such as the exercise of their profession as journalists, freedom of expression or the right to demonstrate. second, we demand a change in the religious law and absolute freedom of religion. it is european christians who are being oppressed here in the middle of europe, and we as the european parliament cannot accept that. we must defend ourselves with all our might. thirdly, we must urgently ensure that this country finally opens up to us as european parliamentarians and as european citizens, that the isolation that this regime systematically builds around its citizens is broken, that we can be present there, can discuss, that we can support something like a belarusian spring 40 years after the prague spring.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 22 may 2008.
i am not going to go into detail. i would like to remind you that yesterday lithuania commemorated the 20th anniversary of the founding of the lithuanian independence movement sąjūdis. the establishment of the european union not only marked the beginning of the restoration of lithuania's independence, but also heralded the collapse of the soviet union. i congratulate you. (applause from the centre) i would like to draw your attention to the green weeks which are taking place this week in brussels and in the next two weeks in luxembourg and strasbourg. the main topics will be co2 emissions and the associated climate change. we have committed ourselves to reducing the european parliament's co2 emissions by 30% by 2020. to do this, a renowned consultancy company is preparing a carbon balance sheet for us, which will be available in september and presented to the bureau. the project will eventually result in an action plan containing both short and long-term measures to enable the european parliament to achieve its own objective. i would appreciate a keen interest on your part!
i would like to welcome with great pleasure his eminence galaktion, archbishop of stara zagora in bulgaria, who, accompanied by orthodox clergy, has taken his seat in the tribune of honor. (applause from the centre) your eminence, it was a pleasure to speak with you this morning. it is also a great pleasure for me to welcome the winners of the first charles prize for youth to the european parliament today. the prize is awarded jointly by the international charlemagne prize foundation in aachen and the european parliament. the award ceremony took place in aachen on 29 april. our young friends have been visiting the european parliament since yesterday and are now in the gallery. (applause from the centre) i would like to welcome as winners of the first prize, on behalf of the 'students without boundaries' project, ms emöke korzenszky from hungary, ms ilona mikoczy from slovakia, ms agota demeter from romania and mr zoltan csadi from slovakia. mr lorenzo marsili from the uk represents the second prize, which went to the festival of europe project in london. last but not least, i would like to welcome the winner of the third prize, which was awarded to the state gymnasium in vyronas, a suburb of athens, greece. i would like to thank mrs paraskevi christodoulopoulou for her welcome. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to thank you for your contributions which help to promote the idea of european integration among young people. (applause from the centre) i would like to welcome a delegation from the parliament of navarre, spain, who took their seats in the visitors' gallery. the delegation is headed by the president of parliament, mrs elena torres miranda. welcome to the club. (applause from the centre) the ten members of the delegation will meet various representatives of the european parliament today and tomorrow, and i myself will have the pleasure of meeting you. i wish you a successful and positive stay in brussels and a visit to the european parliament. welcome to the club.
the minutes of thursday, 22 may 2008, have been circulated. is there any objection?
it is legitimate to express this gratitude. it wasn't for the record, but it was. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr jacek saryusz-wolski, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the main aspects and guidelines of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) submitted to the european parliament under point g.43 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 (a6-0189/2008) and the report by mr helmut kuhne, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the european security strategy and the european security and defence policy (2008/2003) (a6-0186/2008).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. in our report we wanted to avoid duplication with statements in previous reports on the european security strategy. we may not have been entirely successful, but i believe we can go further in this direction in the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want this to be a real institution and not just a virtual institution. since december 2003 the adoption of the european security strategy time has passed very quickly by european standards, perhaps not necessarily by objective standards, but it can already be said that in this period the european security strategy has made significant practical progress. here we can show some successes. i am not going to list the various missions, civil and military. but what we can demonstrate structurally is that we have also had a civilian control and planning instrument on the council side for about a year now, that there is now a clear line from across the building down to those who have to carry out what we call activities on the ground. in the military field, we have increased operational capability beyond the use of nato capabilities under the berlin plus agreement. we've got the battle groups that are supposed to rotate operational. we have continued to carry out operations which we can say were successful, such as the rule of law missions in georgia and the like. but there are still problems to be solved and where i believe there are still shortcomings, and it does not make the security strategy any worse by writing these points down. the participation of the member states in the missions, particularly in the civil sector, is uneven in relation to the population of the member states of the european union. we therefore propose that member states be obliged - whether by moral pressure or otherwise - to draw up action plans on the human resources they can make available to the european union when needed, including statements on the future career prospects of people returning to their home countries after eu missions. we cannot afford to continue to have the torturous mechanism of troop deployment that we have had in the past for military action along the lines of darfur and chad. we propose a number of options. we also make a number of proposals to solve the helicopter crisis and to increase the availability of helicopters. in the long term, we must stop flying around the european union in 24 different types of helicopters. there are also some new developments which need to be addressed in the further reflection on the security strategy. we have a blurring of the internal and external borders in connection with terrorist activities. the security of energy supplies must be addressed by diplomatic, economic and technical means - and i say explicitly not military means. the protection of sensitive infrastructures against electronic attacks is something that has been brought into the consciousness. all these things should be taken into account when considering what should be added to the security strategy. mr solana, the high representative of the eu, has a corresponding mandate from the council to think about such things. we're supporting him. we want the outcome of these discussions to be presented in the form of a white paper by the end of the year, so that there is a common reference point for the european debate, not only for the debate between mr solana and the governments, not only between him and us, not only in the national parliaments, but also among the interested european public, from poland to portugal.
high representative for the common foreign and security policy. − mr president, let me start by thanking parliament for inviting me to this important debate on the european union’s foreign policy, security and defence in the plenary sitting of the european parliament. however, before entering into the substance, let me at once condemn the terrorist attack against the danish embassy in islamabad on monday and express my condolences to the danes and pakistanis and the families of the dead and injured. let us remember them and in particular those who suffered there. i was in islamabad not long ago and i would like to report on that trip, if the sitting allows me the time. i wish to thank the two rapporteurs, mr saryusz-wolski and mr kuhne, for their reports. i think that there are many excellent points in these reports on how we can strengthen the european union's overall impact around the world, in line with our values, in line with our interests. i would like to congratulate them and reassure them, and all of you, that we will take as many of the remarks as possible into consideration because i think they are very constructive, very positive and because of that they will be considered by me. this is a very important session and i would like to address some of the issues which are in both reports. in the time allowed me i would like to talk about those issues that are more pertinent today on the international affairs agenda, to see how we can contribute to the resolution of the problems of today. i should like to say a couple of words about the treaty that has been referred to by the rapporteurs. in both reports there are many references to the treaty of lisbon and it is very clear why. those reports ask for more efficiency. the main point of the treaty is to make the european union’s work more efficient, more visible, especially in foreign and security policy. i am convinced that the treaty will solve many of the problems identified in the report in particular by mr kuhne. the first priority for all of us is to get the treaty ratified. we all still have to work in that direction in the coming days. i would like to underline that the slovenian presidency was mandated by the december european council to take forward the work on preparing for the smooth entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the work, as you know, has been guided by a few basic principles that we share. the starting point of all this discussion is the treaty itself. it has to be respected in full. the second thing is that the overall aim is that the treaty enters into force as previously agreed and that means on 1 january 2009 if things can go smoothly. many aspects of the treaty are of fundamental interest to you, to the european parliament and – as we are talking about foreign and security policy – on that particular issue. both the presidency and the commission and myself have had the opportunity to discuss many of these issues with some of you, and i would like to guarantee that i will continue to do so from my time here today until the moment the treaty enters into force. it is vital to my mind that the three main institutions work together to ensure the smooth implementation of the treaty. let me say a word about the european external action service. as you know, i have a mandate as high representative in office from declaration 15 of the treaty to carry out preparatory work with the commission and with the member states. i am doing that. i am implementing this mandate with the clear objective of having the decision to establish the eas adopted as soon as possible after the entry into force of the treaty. mr kuhne mentioned the european security strategy. let me make some comments on how i see the situation today. the mandate that i received, the mandate from the council last december, asked me to produce another report by december 2008. i will follow up with discussions with you all in order to obtain the best modifications necessary. the strategy has proved very useful. that has been recognised by the rapporteur and i thank him for that. in the last four years i think it has been an instrument that has done good service. the document was short but at the same time it is a document which is readable and therefore i think it has complied with this purpose. i think that this strategy reflects our values, it reflects our principles, it reflects how we should come back to foreign and security policy. i think the task mandated by the european council last december is not about changing the text; it is more about improving the text and complementing it wherever possible. it is important to reflect on the international situation at the moment it was written – remember it was 2003. things have taken place in this period of time – probably not fundamental enough to change the content of the strategy – but they complement the issues from this period. lessons have been learned and debates have taken place in parliament and in the institutions. therefore i consider the input from parliament to be very valuable, also through the report of the rapporteur, mr kuhne, which is most welcome. i will report orally to the european council in two weeks’ time about this issue, how the work is being done. at that moment i will get something back from the member states on the thinking about this issue and i will listen to you and all the comments you have made today. there will then be further discussion and an informal meeting of foreign ministers – the gymnich – in the month of september and we will continue talking about these issues among ourselves here in parliament. i think that the timing is very important. december 2008 will be the fifth anniversary of the ess. hopefully by then the lisbon treaty will be ratified, therefore improving the coherence of our action. on the key threats that the strategy contemplates, i think those identified in 2003 were the right ones. i think we would agree on that. weapons of mass destruction, terrorism, organised crime, regional conflicts – basically those have not changed. it is still as relevant today, as i said, and we have to continue fighting actively along these lines. the strategy was based on an analysis of the major global challenges at that time, but today, as i said, some are more relevant than others five years ago, and we also have new ones. remember – as has been mentioned already by the rapporteurs – climate change and its effects on international security, energy security – which now has to be contemplated in depth – were not contemplated in the strategy. the same applies to migration – illegal migration in particular – and information security. they were not contemplated, and should be now. we have to take those developments into account. let me say a word also about the esdp, which the rapporteur mentioned. i think we can say without exaggeration that it has been a success. it has been an important and very visible part of the cfsp. over the last five years – and it is good to recognise that – we have deployed more than 15 missions – in fact 17. we now have 14 of them – civilian and military – in action on three continents: europe – in the balkans, africa, and the middle east and asia. that is well recognised in the reports and i appreciate that very much. however, mr kuhne’s report highlights some of the challenges and shortfalls we face in the esdp and i agree with most of the things that have been said. we are working on it: we are taking into account the lessons learned from the missions; we are adapting our structures, both on the civilian and on the military side; we are trying to make it so that there is more civilian and military cooperation, i.e. to have a comprehensive approach, which i think is also the intention of the report. good progress was made at last week’s council meeting with the foreign affairs and defence ministers. an important decision was taken. the rapporteur mr kuhne mentioned the key word ‘helicopters’, which, as you know, is one of the difficulties that the international community is facing now with regard to crisis management operations. the capabilities we need are not here and the capabilities we have are not ready or not the most suitable for the challenges of today. the decision for the defence agency to concentrate on that tactical issue of helicopters is operational from today and i hope very much that you will receive information from the military in the european union. that is something that i hope will be tackled in a coherent manner. let me say a few words about the situation in the world today: the hot spots and the things we are trying to resolve. let me start with the western balkans. as you know there are still elements to be resolved in the western balkans. what happened at the elections on sunday in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is something that should make us think. however, i should like to report to you that, since the last time we spoke, two important things have taken place in serbia: the saa has been signed with the serbs and elections have taken place. i think the results of the elections have something to do with our behaviour and let us hope that we can have a government in serbia that will look to the european perspective of serbia. let me say a word about kosovo. in kosovo, as you know, by 15 june the global package of laws, including the constitution that was promised from the day of the independence of kosovo, will be operational. by that time we would like to have the situation on the ground moving in the right direction, i.e. eulex moving in the right direction. we are in permanent contact with the secretary-general of the united nations to see how this can be done and i hope very much that in a few days i will be able to report to you that progress has been made. it is more than natural that i say a word about georgia. i am going to georgia tomorrow morning. i will be visiting tbilisi and the authorities there. i will also visit abkhazia. it is very important that we also visit abkhazia to try to establish direct contact between the two sides in the framework of the friends of the secretary-general for the moment and see whether another, more active, format can be put in place. i do not think that we will be able to resolve everything this week, but i hope very much that we will make a positive and constructive contribution. i should report to you in addition on the situation in lebanon, where important events have also recently taken place. i, together with the president of parliament, had the privilege to be there that sunday. it was a very moving moment when the agreement was reached. general suleiman is now the president after 18 months of instability. the building where we were that afternoon had been closed and was now open. i hope that the decision that was reached in doha in qatar will allow the evolution of lebanon towards peace and to an election in 2009. as you know, this agreement is not perfect: it has positive elements but it also has elements that are not so positive. let us hope that our help and coherence in our actions in the months to come will help further the process, because, at the moment, it is still not complete. the prime minister has been reappointed. mr siniora is a dignified man, a man we should respect. he is in charge of the government now. let us hope that he will be able to arrive safely to the election process in the middle of 2009. i would like to talk about many other things, but with this speech – and i think i have exceeded my time – i have given you at least an idea of the issues i will be tackling during the next few months. i would also like to tell you that i will be tehran. i have not been there since june 2006. since that time i have had many meetings with the leaders of tehran. however, i have decided, together with the six countries involved in these negotiations, to go back to tehran to meet its leaders. i will carry with me an upgraded offer from the one that we made in 2006. i do not expect miracles but i think it is important for us to continue extending a hand and to make it clear that we have a twin-track approach: negotiations to solve the basic issues, in particular the nuclear issue, but, at the same time, to continue using what the security council has to offer. (applause)
we thank you, high representative, for your speech and we wish you well for all your dangerous journeys. i think the safest place for you to be is the european parliament. it must always be a pleasure for you to be here!
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr saryusz-wolski and mr kuhne, for the constructive, comprehensive and forward-looking approach which underpins both reports. in view of the wide range of topics covered in both reports, i would like to focus on a few aspects which are particularly relevant to the commission, namely the implementation of the lisbon treaty, the european security strategy, the neighbourhood policy and the question of common action, in particular the role of the commission in crisis management. the commission, like most of you, hopes that the ratification process for the new reform treaty will be successfully completed this year. the treaty is essential to enable us to better represent the interests of all citizens of the european union on a global scale. a secure, economically and socially balanced and stable europe, which also plays a leading role on the world stage commensurate with its economic strength, needs a strong eu foreign policy. the european parliament has a duty to support the efforts of the european union to achieve a common foreign policy. this is not primarily an institutional problem, nor is it a problem of procedures, nor even of the legal basis. it is a political problem. to make the eu's foreign policy more effective, all member states must have the political will to promote the common interests of the european union. it would be in everyone's interest to do so. we can be strong together, but we can also be weak individually. we have a choice. the commission is currently preparing its contribution to the review of the european security strategy. we are facing new threats and challenges to which the narrow security concept of 2003 can no longer adequately respond. the concept of threat should be broadened today. the link between security and development, security and energy, security and climate change, and even the issues we are currently facing, the evolution of prices and the availability of raw materials, the threat of food shortages and the problem of immigration, deserve greater attention. the cfsp annual report and the ess/esdp annual report contain many points in this respect which are also shared by the commission. i expect these points to be adopted by the european council in december 2008. the promotion of the democratization process in other countries must continue to be a central element of our foreign policy strategy. we have experience of this - enlargement is a successful example. we have gained valuable experience in this area which we can use for the european neighbourhood policy. the neighbourhood policy is today one of our most important instruments - if not the most important instrument - for strengthening peace and stability in our part of the world and promoting prosperity and security. the commission's proposal is to be incorporated as far as possible into community policies. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the overall development of the european union and its global influence depend on the optimal use of all its resources and instruments. luckily, we're not starting from scratch here. a number of community instruments, in particular development and humanitarian aid, have already been deployed to support eu crisis management efforts from afghanistan to kosovo, from the middle east to chad. the cfsp budget managed by the commission has also been massively increased by almost 10 times since 2002. currently, 11 esdp missions are being carried out in the areas of police, rule of law and monitoring and two others in the military area. the commission is now systematically involved in the planning of these missions from the outset. this has already been the case in operations in kosovo, chad and the central african republic. in this context, let me say a few words about the instrument of stability. this important new community financing mechanism now adds a crisis management and conflict prevention instrument with an average annual budget of over eur 200 million for the period 2007-2013. the commission considers that the first year of implementation of the stability instrument has been a successful one, both in terms of the management of funds and the quality of the measures. the commission would very much welcome closer interinstitutional cooperation on the external action of the european union if we could ensure in this way more coherence, efficiency and visibility of the eu's external policy. the commission believes that we should join forces. that is what europe needs. that is what the people of europe expect of us. and that is what the international community expects of us. thank you for your attention.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i do not want to repeat all the praise and i would like to emphasize once again where we are in fact in agreement: this is the demand for a coherent foreign and security policy, as my colleague mr saryusz-wolski has said for us, and of course the question of parliamentary control and transparency. if we go back to our national member states, we find in every discussion that the more the european union engages in foreign and security policy, the more we want and need to promote transparency and legitimacy with these instruments among the people at home. i would like to address the points which are controversial and which have not been mentioned so far: mr verheugen, in the first debate we discussed the draft report by mr kuhne with commissioner ferrero-waldner, and she, like my group, stressed that it is good that we continue to think, that we are not just discussing a revision of the european security strategy, but are trying to give ourselves a common guideline, namely the question of human security and the responsibility to protect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the relevant passage has been deleted with the support of both groups and we will be applying for it again. because if we don't address this political challenge, we will lose our credibility in terms of how we deal with this issue, in terms of conflict prevention, but also in terms of how we deal with darfur, with chad, or with other conflicts that we have to worry about. the second thing i find absurd, even if we do not have a consensus on this at the moment, is that the conservative group under mr von wogau is asking that in future, as part of the european security strategy and its revision, we include the us national security strategy in our planning. this is absolutely absurd, because this policy has failed, and we know that the us administration has failed with this escalation, with unilateralism, that it has cost many lives. i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but i am saying that we should not be able to do it. the third thing i want to talk about is something very important: proliferation. mr solana, i too wish you every success. we need dialogue, including with iran. but i also ask our colleagues: if we are talking about energy security, which is part of the wider security, is the answer to be that sarkozy, as the future president of the european council, will announce that he will release nuclear technology worldwide on the market without limits, without any means of control? what does that do to our credibility? first, we're not denuclearizing, which we should be. second, we're spreading this technology, even though we know it's always going to be used for military purposes. i think we are making a mistake here, and that is why we are going to table an amendment to that effect.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the two reports we are discussing are a clear indication of the extent to which the militarisation of the european union has progressed. i would like to touch on a few aspects, for example the very close cooperation between the eu and nato, which is absolutely fatal. nato is also a military alliance and we are against this close cooperation between the eu and nato. i thank you again for clarifying that the lisbon treaty will bring about substantial changes in the military sphere. this is one of the main reasons why we are against the lisbon treaty, and i would point out that it has not yet been ratified, and i hope for a 'no' vote in ireland on 12 june. part of the lisbon treaty - which also appears in mr kuhne's report - is that an independent eu military budget, called the 'stimulus fund', should be created. we think that's very problematic. parliamentary control of the esdp missions is not guaranteed. eu battle groups are expected to be operational within 5 to 30 days, and the german bundestag cannot be involved during this period. it was not possible to reach agreement on parliamentary scrutiny between all the groups, partly because we demanded that all the groups, including the smaller ones, should be given the relevant information. obviously, that's not what you want in this house. the report calls for more armaments projects. we think that's wrong. it is necessary to make a real evaluation of the eu missions to date. it's overdue. during the artemis mission in the congo, he was tortured by french soldiers. the operation in chad is a disaster and the eulex mission in kosovo a so-called rule of law mission has no legal basis. the two reports are going in the wrong direction. that is why we as a group have tabled a minority vote. we shall now see what the french presidency of the council has to say on this military matter. there will be another military build-up, and we are talking about naval and air battle groups. we do not want a military european union, we do not want a new military alliance, we want a civil european union! that means that we are saying no to the two reports that have been tabled.
high representative for the cfsp. mr president, allow me to congratulate briefly those who have spoken on behalf of the groups. i think there has been, generally speaking, not unanimity but broad consensus on many of the issues we have dealt with in the first part of the debate. i would like to thank mr daul, representative of the people's party. you have made a clear statement on the objectives of the revision of the security strategy and on the objectives of the lisbon treaty in general. i fully share your position and think it is essential to strengthen the voice and the human dimension of the union. i honestly believe that europe is also being asked for, not only by our fellow citizens, but also by voices outside europe. the wish is being expressed all over the world to see europe adopt a clearer discourse and act more effectively. i therefore fully share the views of the people's parliamentary group and will endeavour to make all the necessary efforts to achieve effective cooperation with all the institutions in place before the entry into force of the treaty. this is the mandate given to me under article 15 of the treaty and i will endeavour to fulfil this obligation fully. i would also like to reply to mr swoboda - not to disagree with him but, on the contrary, to say that many of the things he has said are very much to my way of thinking and to the way i would like to see things moving. i think the cooperation you mentioned between civilians and the military is fundamental. we are in the business of crisis management and not in any other business. in crisis management all the instruments should be at the disposal of the european union to make the utmost of its capabilities. but, again, the most important thing is to have political will. we may have the capabilities, but if we do not have political will we have nothing. we may not have the capabilities in any case. therefore, we have to work in both directions, with capabilities but also with political will. the construction of political will is something that everyone in this beautiful building has to work on, together with the other institutions of the european union. let me say a word about the report by mr saryusz-wolski. there were paragraphs in the report with which i agree from a to z. i would like to underline the paragraphs on afghanistan for example because afghanistan is a very important issue on which we have responsibilities. i did not have the opportunity to mention in my introductory remarks that for me and for us i hope afghanistan is one of the challenges that we have on the table and we have to be able to construct a resolution that has to be political. therefore, what you said about the police mission in the report is very important. we need members of the police there. as you know, at the last european foreign affairs council we agreed to double the number of people deployed. but i would also like to underline what you said about quality. it is true that when we talk about the rule of law, police and judges they are not at our disposal they are working in their national member states on other issues and therefore we have to see how we can go from here to the time when we will have at our disposal a european group of policemen, group of judges and group of social actors that could be deployed rapidly. that may be possible with the military because, fortunately, if they are not in a crisis-management operation, they may be available for deployment. we have to think about that and not only think but also find answers to those questions. i should like to say that, on the whole, the speeches have been very constructive. i should like to comment on the paragraph on human security. mrs beer, you know very well that i am very attached to that concept. marie colvin is one of my friends and i have written some of those pieces with her. i think that is a concept that illuminates much of our modern thinking as far as security is concerned. therefore, it doesn't matter what we call it, the important thing is what we do. the name is important but what we do is more important than the name. i think that all the reports are illuminated by that belief: that security is something that goes beyond a classical concept. but, with respect, i have to disagree with some of the remarks, starting with the remark by the representative of the commission. i really don't think that the security strategy has to be revised because it had a very narrow concept of security. i do not think this is a good statement. i think, concerning the security strategy written in 2003, that most of the limits there are the same elements, the same challenges, the same problems that we have today. we may have to complement and we may have to act, but i do not characterise the strategy as a narrow vision of security. on the contrary, it is the most open-minded approach that the european union has ever had to this problem. for the sake of clarity, i think that what we have to do is not to write a new text but to maintain as much as possible of the core, i.e. the mandate we have, and try to add elements. for example many of you have mentioned the question of energy security which is important and the question of the consequences of climate change in all its dimensions, the question of how to tackle the responsibility that we have with disasters that are natural and not manmade, for which we have resources and capabilities that have been put in place to combat such dramatic events. concerning proliferation: i have spoken about that on almost every occasion i have been given the opportunity the risks and the importance that issue has for all of us. i think if we were to pick two horizontal issues we have to tackle, one would be climate change and the other would be proliferation and disarmament. those are the two main issues that may put at risk much of what we value in life. therefore, i agree with that. i would like to say a few words to my dear friend, brian crowley. i think the important thing is to deliver, and i agree with him. however, take the example of chad. i don't know whether that was the best example you could have chosen. i was in chad a couple of weeks ago. i went to the capital, to the second city and to goz beida, where the irish battalion is deployed with very high spirits and enormous professionalism. that is something that should make us proud. i feel proud of the work the irish battalion is doing in the middle of the savannah, trying to help the displaced people in the refugee camps, with tremendous generosity. i applaud the irish soldiers who are there, who have a very generous attitude and are fully determined to make things better on the ground, which is the objective of the mission. i would like to thank you, mr president, and all the parliamentary groups and i very much hope that in the time we have ahead of us, as we approach the end of the year 2008, we will be able to work constructively towards making the dream of so many citizens of the european union a reality - the implementation of the treaty in order to have a europe that has a presence in the international community, in the world, that is proportionate to our ideas, our principles, our capabilities and our standard of living.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i should like to thank mr kuhne for his report and for the way in which he has dealt with it, which has led to agreement on almost all the points. commissioner, a few months ago you were in bayonne for the funeral of private polin. he was the first soldier to die in a european operation. for me, this was a very moving, a sad event that made me think again about when we actually use a soldier and under what conditions. it is also my answer to mrs beer and the concept of human security. the concept of human security is certainly an interesting concept for development aid as well. without security, there is no development. but i doubt whether this approach is appropriate for the european union's security and defence policy. because you can interpret it as meaning that in any case, there is a need for intervention all over the world. it raises expectations that may not be possible to meet. when people are in need, they do not look to the one who has the best intentions, but to the one who can actually help them. the weakness of this concept is that nothing is worse than to create false expectations. that is why my group will vote against the mention of this principle. we now have the french presidency and, of course, some important decisions to make. as i said, more and more soldiers are being sent on dangerous missions. we have a responsibility to ensure that they actually have the necessary and best equipment for these missions. this is not yet the case in many areas. we have deficits in telecommunications and, this is extremely important, in the civilian sector, in civilian operations. we have deficits in reconnaissance and navigation. i hope that we will receive concrete proposals for closer cooperation in the future and for joint european solutions to such projects and deficits. the report before us calls for the eurocorps to be permanently subordinated to the european union. and i think that would be a very important step forward compared with the military alliances which are only available to the european union for six months at a time. i would like to ask the defence college, of which mr kuhne spoke, not to be merely a virtual college in future but to be given a real basis on which to carry out its task.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. this concluding remark gives me the opportunity to do something i did not have time to do before, namely to thank both vice-president verheugen and the high commissioner, mr solana, for the good cooperation they have shown with their staff, who have been available to talk to me and from whom i have learned a great deal. this has also had a positive effect on the report. i would also like to thank all my colleagues in the committee and i would like to thank in particular the chairman of the committee and rapporteur for the other report, mr saryusz-wolski. we've been passing the paper around like students, where we've had overlapping issues in our reports, to get the same wording. that worked out well, too. i would like to make three points: first in english, since some of the speakers addressed the question of the irish referendum. on the legend of militarization: my report contains a full list of arms control and disarmament proposals a whole page of it. secondly, the lisbon treaty retains the right of every member state to stay away from eu missions, especially military missions. this right is not infringed by the lisbon treaty in any way. it was very interesting to hear self-proclaimed advocates of nato expressing their fear for the independence of neutral ireland as part of the esdp. i think that was very interesting. a final point raised by mr pflüger concerns the question of parliamentary control: i do not know whether this was a deliberate misunderstanding, but the text, which is in both mr saryusz-wolski's report and my report, does not exclude the possibility of groups having access to confidential information. it's an open formulation. we in parliament must do our homework before we can even develop a negotiating position vis-à-vis the council. how many members of parliament do we want to give access to? it may well be that we can say that at this level of confidentiality all the groups, those, etc. we must develop this ourselves, and our two proposals do not exclude the possibility of involving the political groups. i do not know whether this was a deliberate misunderstanding or whether the text was so incomprehensible - i do not think it was - but we should sit down here in parliament and develop our own negotiating position vis-à-vis the council.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we want good relations between the united states of america and the european union. but it also requires the european union to speak with one voice. the challenges and crises of the western balkans, the south caucasus, the middle east, afghanistan, the fight against terrorism, the current media and real food crises, energy security, climate change, the economic recession, but also the issues of transparency and regulation of financial markets - in all these issues we need each other and we need to work together. but we also want to strengthen the parliamentary dimension by involving the us congress and the european parliament. the point of greatest importance for our public is - and i say this quite consciously as a transatlanticist - the closure of the prison at guantanamo bay and all the other secret prisons in the world. it is important that we explain to our american friends that the remaining prisoners must either be charged in accordance with the law or released and compensated accordingly, if necessary. but we can also make a contribution, for example by welcoming the uyghur prisoners into the european union and thereby also helping to put an end to this scandal as soon as possible. another point which is important for the common reputation of our common democratic values is that we agree on the one hand that there is a terrorist challenge, but on the other hand we must also appeal to the rule of law to deal with this conflict. this is precisely what is not the case with the current practice of listing terrorist organisations both in the european union and in the united nations. that is why this question must be urgently examined. i would like to reiterate that the fight against terrorism and organised crime must be based on fundamental rights and common principles of the rule of law. this also applies to the exchange of personal data between the united states and the european union. finally, another important issue is climate change, because it affects many aspects, from food security to energy to water supply. the european union is not a party to the gatt, but it is a party to the gatt. both partners should agree on a common approach to mitigating climate change. our aim must be to limit the temperature increase to a maximum of two degrees above pre-industrial levels. we call on the industrialized countries to live up to their responsibilities.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission! i think it is absolutely clear, and it has been made clear in the various speeches, that the european union and the united states of america, together, on the basis of values, can contribute to peace and freedom in the world as no one else can. but we must recognize that we sometimes have different views. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the gatt agreement, and it has been a very active participant in the negotiations on the gatt agreement. the european union must be able to play a more active role in the world, and the united states must be able to play a more active role in the world. the transatlantic economic council is an instrument which will enable us to pursue our common interests in a specific area. that is why it saddens me so much that things are already threatening to fail on the chicken question, that the american president has to make phone calls on the chicken question, or that we are not achieving a certain degree of compromise on this issue. we must consider whether there is not some exaggeration here, so that we are able to create a basis for the development of a transatlantic market which will enable us to pursue our common interests in this world, to enforce standards and - as james elles rightly said - to do so also with the involvement of parliaments. mr verheugen has already mentioned that in many areas legislative projects are already involved, which is why it is necessary to involve the parliaments on both sides as a preventive measure in order to get the situation under control and to jointly enforce these standards in the world. if we can do that, and if we can get that momentum past the elections in the united states this year and in the european union next year, we may have laid the groundwork for us to understand that climate change, terrorism, organized crime, migration and many other things can only be tackled together in the interest of a better world. that is why we should work more closely with our american friends.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a generally positive relationship with the united states does not exclude differences of interest and opinion. i believe that only on this basis can partnership on an equal footing be possible. it is the only way to counter anti-americanism in a convincing way. that is why we social democrats are in favour of a direct dialogue with the united states on security policy on matters in which the european union has competence. i would like to give two examples: the credibility of western values in the fight against terrorism and the issue of stabilisation and reconstruction. the european union is not a party to the united nations security council, but it is a party to the united nations security council, and it is a party to the united nations security council. because it's very clear that no president of the united states will ever allow a third party, let it be the eu, to co-write this national security strategy. so why should you commit yourself to them by a blank check? that is not equal to the eye, and that is why we are against such positions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. reactionary nationalists brutally beat up homosexuals at a peaceful rally in moscow last sunday, once again stamping on our minds the image of an unfree russia. gay and lesbian people are still massively discriminated against. in recent years, the german green politician volker beck has been beaten and arrested at demonstrations. it cannot be stressed enough how bad the state of civil society in russia is. the eu and russia are to negotiate a new agreement in siberia at the end of june. we owe it to the people of russia and other autocratic systems that the issue of energy security does not overshadow all other areas. human rights and democratic freedoms must form the basis of this new agreement!
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first apologise on behalf of peter mandelson, who is not able to be here to discuss with this house the regulation on the generalised system of preferences (gsp). he has asked me to speak on his behalf. i thank you for your work and the valuable comments made on the proposal for a gsp regulation for 2009-2011. the commission considered it important that parliament should be able to express its opinion, and we really appreciate the effort you have made to examine the proposals and provide an opinion, even in a rather short timetable. we therefore welcome the opinion and the opportunity to engage with you and explain the commission’s position. the gsp scheme is an important pro-development instrument of eu trade policy. the commission therefore appreciates the recognition in the opinion that the eu’s gsp is the most important such scheme among the developed countries and that it continues to make an important contribution to the objective of promoting development and poverty reduction in the developing world. we share the objective expressed by parliament that the scheme should continue to operate in a stable, transparent and predictable manner. these aspects are important for the beneficiary countries themselves, giving them and economic operators within the eu a firmer basis for their own decision-making on trade and investment opportunities. the commission considers that all three components of the scheme – the standard gsp for all beneficiaries, the ‘gsp plus’ for those countries that make specific commitments in terms of adherence to international standards for good governance and sustainable development, and the everything but arms initiative for the least-developed countries – are operating well and in line with the overall policy orientations put in place for the period 2006-2015. that is why the basic approach underpinning the proposed regulation for 2009-2011 is one of continuity in substance, combined with some technical updating. we are working actively with the member states in the council towards agreement on the final regulation. the presidency has set the objective of achieving this before the end of june. that is something the commission supports, since an early decision is important to ensure that beneficiary countries and all other interested parties, including business operators, have sufficient notice of the changes to be made next january. another very important reason for an early decision is that all those countries that wish to apply for ‘gsp plus’ treatment will have to do so by the end of october and need confirmation as soon as possible of the relevant criteria and the process they will have to follow. i would note that some of parliament’s comments and suggestions in fact relate to issues that go beyond the scope of this regulation, even if they are certainly issues of importance from a development perspective. reform of the ec’s preferential rules of origin, including for the purpose of the gsp, is being taken forward in a separate exercise headed by commissioner kovács. a number of comments also touch on the need to ensure that developing countries are able to access sufficient and good-quality aid for trade to help them build trade capacity and harness the potential of trade to drive their own economic growth and sustainable development. here the european union has already demonstrated its strong commitment and, in the eu aid for trade strategy of october 2007, has put in place a firm basis on which to make yet further improvements. in conclusion, let me repeat that we very much appreciate the interest shown by parliament in these proposals.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. development cooperation and trade are usually the most important external forces that can contribute to a country's development. non-reciprocal tariff preferences for developing countries are an important and internationally recognised instrument which the european union has been using for many years. there are three types of regulation in force at present. firstly, the general scheme applies to all beneficiary countries. secondly, the aps+ incentive scheme provides additional benefits to countries that implement certain international standards on human rights, workers' rights, environmental protection, drug control and good governance. thirdly, the special arrangement for the least developed countries offers them, in principle, duty-free and quota-free access to the internal market of the community for everything except arms, and i personally find it absolutely fatal that there is still no legally binding regulation prohibiting arms exports from the european union to these countries. all trade preferences are useless if violent conflicts destroy any foundation for a functioning economy. this report focuses on improvements to the commission's proposal for the gsp scheme for the period january 2009 to december 2011 in the following areas: first, to improve the applicability and effectiveness. this includes reducing the application and examination periods from three to one-year periods. secondly, the establishment of rules for a reform process in which the beneficiaries are adequately involved. thirdly, consistency with the multilateral framework of the wto and, of course, particularly with the objectives of the doha development round. this includes, in addition to the necessary impact assessments on the development of the european union's trade policy instruments, firstly, the entry into force of the reform of the european union's rules of origin at the same time as the new gsp scheme and, secondly, and above all, the improvement of the rules on the requirements for beneficiary countries. i am referring, for example, to the possibility of cumulation within and between regions. this means that a product produced in a regional but cross-border production process does not fall out of gsp benefits because of nonsensical rules of origin. fourthly, to ensure democratic and parliamentary control of implementation and, where appropriate, to adapt the existing regulation. i would like to say that i welcome the involvement of parliament by the commission in the consultation procedure at this stage, but that parliament will have to take part in these matters on a regular basis in the future. i therefore expect that this time the commission will take our amendments seriously, rather than largely ignoring them, as it did in the owninitiative report on the reform two years ago. a note on the aps+ incentive scheme: i think it is very important - not only in trade relations - not to measure different countries against different standards when assessing human rights and good governance. at the same time, however, it is quite clear that a premature suspension of trade preferences can have devastating consequences for the people of a developing country, especially with regard to the human rights situation there. the decision on the extent to which the international agreements listed in the annex to the current regulation are actually being implemented and whether preferences should be suspended, should therefore be subject to extremely careful scrutiny. i would like to support amendment no 37, tabled here, which recalls that all possibilities must be explored so that 'countries which are not least developed countries and which do not sign an economic partnership agreement can benefit from a new trade framework which offers trade preferences at least equivalent to those of the cotonou agreement'. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs and the committee on development - and my colleague mr kaczmarek is on the committee - for their cooperation and willingness to compromise. the committee on international trade was able to adopt this report unanimously, taking into account the content of the opinion of the development committee. there is also a broad consensus with the council and the commission - we had frequent discussions in advance - and i hope that the regulation can enter into force on time as planned and that there will be no gap between the current and the new preferential period.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the system under discussion is designed to combat poverty and backwardness. three points seem to me to be important here. firstly, since it is the continuation of the system, flexibility should be applied both when entering the system and when leaving it, should the parameters change in a country. in other words, must a state which has been favoured once remain so? it doesn't seem that way to me. we should not forget that the eu also has a duty to its own citizens, workers and consumers. there has to be a mutual benefit, it can't always be one-sided. secondly, we welcome the fact that the european parliament is to be informed during the next term. we would also like to have an evaluation of this system. this evaluation is intended to provide a comparison with other preferential measures, such as the epo. let us be realistic: statistically, the gap between rich and poor is constantly opening up, despite the various measures taken by the eu and the member states. surely our well-meaning efforts are always successful? we should be allowed to ask ourselves this question in a calm way. thirdly, preferential measures such as the gsp system discussed here should be linked to the following criteria. we need a certain amount of rigor here. first, the promotion of democracy and the rule of law. secondly, the establishment of a minimum framework of social and environmental standards in the beneficiary countries. we want to help, and the report makes that clear. but we must not give in to the interests of our own credibility. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his good cooperation.
mr president, i should just like to make one very brief point to the commissioner. the commissioner rightly mentioned that gsp+ is about sustainable development and it is connected, as the chairman of the committee on international trade said, to the millennium goals. this is very important and i remember very well, when we discussed this kind of scheme for the first time, that we said we needed to evaluate and re-evaluate how valuable it is for the countries and for ourselves. there is one topic to which i would very much like to draw your attention, which might become a complicated and tricky one in the future, concerning those countries that are operating within the scheme but which have a complicated environment. for example, sri lanka, which would love to fulfil the goals, but because of many conditions – and i do not want to go into the details – might not be capable of doing so. i am not arguing that we should change our system. i would just ask the commission – as my colleague kader arif has already done – to be very careful in evaluating each individual case. i would ask you to come back to our committee and to the committee on foreign affairs when you have carried out the evaluation and then please come back to this house, and let us have an evaluation and a discussion on the topic i mentioned.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am impressed by the intriguing questions of the honourable members, especially the fact that nearly every one is critically constructive. all are involved in the whole procedure and doing their utmost to make it a good proposal. i can assure you that peter mandelson will pay attention to your input – there is no doubt about that – and that he will take the amendments seriously and not ignore them. i know peter a bit better. he is not the kind of person who would ignore such proposals and such thoughts, but he would like to look at it from both sides – helping developing countries (especially the least developed, as mr kaczmarek mentioned) is what he has in mind. however, the aim is to be both objective and predictable. regarding mrs mann’s invitation to come back (and i am sure she is asking for peter mandelson to come back, although i would be delighted to come back), i am sure he will take up the invitation. mr ó neachtain put it in a wider perspective, and i am pleased with the geneva wto discussions. peter mandelson will not be surprised at the views of the honourable member. and mr kamall urged that we do our utmost and be a friend to those who want to work. i thank you again for all the proposals. the draft is in council, where the member states will reflect on parliament’s amendments to ensure that stability guidelines for the gsp are established for 2005-2015. what is the reason leading the commission not to introduce significant changes? after one year of operations it is too early to make conclusive observations, but this is something we will no doubt come back to. concerning the questions by mr kaczmarek and mr audy: the ultimate objectives of the scheme are indeed education and the eradication of poverty. at the same time, the eu provides an incentive for sustainable development, good governance and human rights, as well as labour standards and child labour in particular. concerning aid: the gsp tariff preferences provide market access to developed countries. aid programmes are governed under the eu joint aid for trade strategy which, among other objectives, claims to enable developing countries to benefit from the gsp. mrs mann and mr fjellner mentioned sri lanka. at the moment sri lanka benefits from the gsp+. there are no indications that it would stop benefiting from gsp arrangements in the future. each and every country’s situation is assessed carefully, transparently and following the provisions of the regulations. one question asked that the application process of the gsp+ scheme be more frequent than once every three years – i have already touched upon this – so let us make a deal that it should be flexible but we should not just stick to one year. mrs mann asked how the application for the gsp+ will be assessed. the monitoring and evaluation of compliance with the eligibility requirements of the gsp+ arrangement is based on the findings of the monitoring mechanisms established under the auspices of the relevant international organisation, such as the un and ilo and other agencies, as well as on the monetary mechanism emphasised in the conventions themselves and made publicly available by these agencies. this provides for unambiguous and impartial review processes. i would like to answer mr arif’s question on the situation of the commission in gsp+ beneficiary countries in terms of the implementation of human rights conventions and the correlative standards. i can assure you that the commission is following closely the developments of the current gsp+ beneficiaries in respect to their compliance with the gsp+ relevant international conventions. i shall just mention the example of el salvador (which is a gsp+ beneficiary country, as you are aware), with regard to which the commission, in consultation with eu member states, has recently launched an investigation into its compliance with gsp+ obligations. i can assure you that the proper implementation of the eu trade arrangements is one of the commission’s priorities. we pay close attention to the gsp+ beneficiaries’ compliance, and these issues are regularly raised in our bilateral contacts with those countries. concerning the new gsp rules of origin and how they will contribute to the gsp objectives: they are currently being discussed in the context of a general broad reform of the rules of origin. the taxation and customs union dg is chef de file, so that concerns my colleague mr kovács. the aim is to render them more development-friendly, and that process is governed in consultation with the developing countries. the last point concerns shoes in vietnam, which was one of the examples. the exclusion – or graduation, for it is fair to use that word of vietnamese products falling under section 12 (i am now talking about the footwear of the combined nomenclature from the benefits under the proposed gsp regulation for the years 2009-2011) – is being given full attention by all the relevant commission services. the commission has also been in close contact with vietnam on this issue in order to provide all necessary assistance and expertise. concerning the graduation of vietnam in relation to section 12, this results from the technical and objective application of the gsp provisions and reflects the fact that vietnamese exports of these products are more competitive on the community market. in addition, vietnam has successfully diversified its export base. that is a positive point and means that footwear is no longer so dominant. that is another, significant sign of increasing competitiveness. so the com proposal for the graduation of vietnam is based on extensive objectives and statistical analyses applied in the same way to all gsp+ beneficiaries.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. it was clear that there was a great deal of agreement in this house that the aps+ system is a very positive system. i would of course have liked to ask the commission or mr mandelson, who is not here, why he is so keen to press for free trade agreements in the context of the partnership and association agreements, for example with the andean countries, two countries which are keen to retain their gpas. ecuador and bolivia want to keep this aps+. then you can get into it. it's good for them. the second question is whether we should not consider developing the aps+ system into an aps++. we have a whole new set of challenges. we have climate change, we have rising food prices. perhaps you could consider introducing new paragraphs and new evaluation criteria. i am very glad, commissioner, that you have spoken clearly about sri lanka, because that was also a concern of my committee, and mrs mann has done so again with determination. finally, i would like to thank all those with whom i have had the pleasure of working. it was a good collaboration! i think we are a little bit further along and that this aps+ system is a very valuable and necessary system in the framework of trade agreements of the european union and that you do not always have to rely on free trade agreements.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking mr pittella and mr karas for their reports. i share her view, which runs through the report, that every citizen in the european union should have access to banking services. i would like to make three comments. firstly, as regards customer mobility: yes, our aim is to achieve, in a growing, fully functioning internal market, that every customer also has access to banking services across borders. but with that right come responsibilities. so i'm a little cautious here when it's being asked that in the event that a customer quits their bank and wants to make a change, we leave the risk of not having a new bank connection in time with the existing bank. this is not right! a customer should act on his own responsibility and must assume this responsibility with the rights he has assumed. we should not be the ones to help him out when he gets into this dilemma through his own fault. second, the information of the customer. i can only join my predecessor, harald ettl, in this. we are still faced with the fact that comparable products competing with each other do not enjoy the same transparency because they are subject to different disclosure requirements. this is not right! i am very much in favour of customers getting information, but the same applies here: we should not throw the baby with the bath, we should not flood the customer with too much information. he needs the information to make a responsible decision, but quality is more important than quantity. finally, the structure of the banks: i agree with othmar karas that we do indeed have different banking structures in the various member states, which have developed historically. in one country there are only private banks, in another there are also savings banks, national banks, state banks and so on. it is not our job to reorganise the banking landscape. this is what the member states should do. but it is not our job to maintain tradition either. i think that the market should decide whether the structures should remain as they are or whether they should change. the services, the product offerings, the services that the individual market players offer their customers - that should decide, and not us here at headquarters.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. a few days before the start of the european football championship, the women's committee - and i hope the whole of the european parliament - is once again giving the red card to forced prostitution. up to 800 000 women are trafficked for sexual exploitation worldwide each year. this is one of the worst human rights violations of our time, and especially at major sporting events, the fast sex on the sidelines of the games is also linked to this modern form of slave trade. two years ago, at the world cup in germany, we launched a wide-ranging debate in this parliament and a campaign which, with the support of the public, prevented the huge wave of forced prostitution and its associated outbreaks, which was initially feared by professionals. but then the subject slipped out of sight again. we have launched legal initiatives and, with the experience gained from the german campaign, which was very widely supported by women's organizations, we have succeeded in introducing measures to protect victims and to show the plight of women, who are mostly from central and eastern europe. they are in a situation of constraint, on the one hand as perpetrators, since they do not have residence permits, but on the other hand as victims, because they are mercilessly exploited by the traffickers. we have taken a step forward in the areas of victim protection, crossborder cooperation and the legal issue of residence permits. we now want to use the publicity of the games in austria and switzerland to bring the issue back into the spotlight. in germany, the social democratic minister of justice has announced draconian punishments for those who marry forced prostitutes. however, there are still many gaps and parliament must ensure that these gaps are closed. i ask the commission to help us in this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we know that trafficking in women for sexual exploitation must be condemned and fought against worldwide. it is a scandal that is not worthy of a europe of values and human rights! we also know that trafficking in women no longer limits itself to borders. we need a european, a global response to the problem, but it must be much more than just border controls and repression. the positive aspect is that this issue has been on the agenda for about ten years, but the focus is too one-sided on border controls prevention and protection of victims are unfortunately too neglected. there's no way out. more and more people girls and women are becoming victims of sexual exploitation, although, as mrs gröner has already mentioned, the feared increase was not seen at the 2006 world cup. but we know the dark figure is high. there are too few raids on traffickers and too few trials against the unscrupulous criminals. the european commission confirmed this in response to a parliamentary question i had put to it. we are committed to improving victim protection not only in germany but in europe. in this respect, i find it somewhat regrettable that the commission is obviously only using fine words and is not making real progress in improving conditions for victims. it is not transparent how the commission is pushing for the implementation of the victims' protection directive in the member states, how its implementation is monitored. i find it very regrettable that the commission, in reply to my second parliamentary question on the way in which the victims protection directive has been implemented in germany, refers only to one study. i would like to ask the commission very clearly to finally state whether the eu victim protection directive has been correctly implemented, not only in germany but also in the other eu member states. it is not possible that the commission does not know whether its own law has been correctly implemented! it would be a sign of poverty. in the case of migration, we need to look not only at family reunification, but also at ways in which women can migrate legally so that they do not have to fall into the hands of traffickers.
i have to say, madam president, many are looking forward to the european football championship in june 2008. but we must not forget that outside the games, human trafficking, forced prostitution of women and child abuse are on the rise, and the crime of human traffickers crosses all borders. the games will be held in austria and switzerland, thus strengthening the role of the neighbouring central european countries as transit countries for the highly lucrative criminal business. the eu is needed here, preventive measures, crossborder surveillance and law enforcement must be better organised and coordinated. the european mechanisms for joint investigations need to be improved. each member state is invited to improve the protection of victims and to make active use of these instruments. it is the only way to put the perpetrators on the sidelines and show them the red card!
i think that the slovenian presidency, which is here today, will respond to that request accordingly.
the next item is the commission statement on the barcelona process: union for the mediterranean.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i do not share the view of commissioner ferrero-waldner that it is appropriate to speak french this morning. c'est, avec ma langue maternelle, ma langue préférée, madame la commissaire, mais je crois que ce matin, en particulier, il est inapproprié de parler en français, parce que l'erreur du président sarkozy a été, au départ, de donner l'impression que l'union pour la méditerranée était une idée franco-française. madam commissioner, i would like to say that i am not in favour of the idea of a union for the mediterranean, but i would like to say that i am in favour of the idea of a union for the mediterranean, and i would like to say that i am in favour of the idea of a union for the mediterranean. but, in the meantime, he has become more reasonable, and that is the reason why, monsieur bonsignor, i must congratulate him. and then it must be recalled that when mr sarkozy first came to this parliament to present the mediterranean union for the first time at the conference of group chairmen, i asked him: 'can you tell me what role the federal republic of germany should play in your mediterranean union?' in the meantime, we are a little further along, and we have settled those questions. that is why the approach you have described, mrs ferrero-waldner, is the right one. i firmly believe that we are faced with three central challenges in the mediterranean union. firstly, i believe that the question of social stability is a basic prerequisite for peace, but nowhere is social stability more at risk in the north and the south than in the mediterranean. nowhere is the direct confrontation between enormous wealth on the one hand and enormous poverty on the other more visible, more tangible than in the mediterranean. and nowhere is the confrontation and the tension that it brings for us europeans greater than in the mediterranean. the mediterranean union is therefore a very, very good idea as a project which can lead to greater stability and peace through the economic integration of our two regions. that is why we social democrats support this idea. secondly, the idea is all the more sensible in that it makes the approach of multilateralism the basis of cooperation, not only within the framework of the mediterranean union but also as a project of regional cooperation which cannot be a model for the world, but from which joint initiatives could emerge which could lead to a little more stability in the world as a whole. the third point, which is so important for us as social democrats, is that we have now succeeded in not setting in motion parallel processes. the barcelona process - for which, by the way, some eur 15.5 billion is available in the framework of the financial perspective until 2013 - which we started with the considerations i have just described and which were the political basis of the mediterranean union, is now being raised to a new level, reinforced, intensified, so to speak, by the mediterranean union, but without additional institutions, but within the framework of the community institutions. that is why the role of the commission and also our role as parliament - and also the role of the euro-mediterranean assembly - is a special one, one which is already defined and which does not need and does not require any additional institutions or bureaucracies. the mediterranean union is now on the right track, politically, institutionally, financially and in terms of its concrete objectives. that's why we're having a celebration in paris on july 14th.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the idea of the french president, in the framework of the mediterranean union, of civil and military nuclear armament and upgrading of the countries of north africa and the middle east has been the subject of much discussion. i like to quote asterix: "they must be mad, the french". but i am now more concerned about this development, since the european commission is also actively taking up and supporting these plans. there was a meeting between the iaea, mr mohammed el-baradei, and the commission about 14 days ago. mr barroso was there. an agreement was signed between the iaea, the international atomic energy agency, and euratom and the commission, respectively, aimed at accelerating the proliferation of nuclear energy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have a lot of questions about that. firstly, commissioner, you were originally supposed to sign this agreement. i have the blueprint for that. why did you back off? is there no contractual basis for this agreement at all? secondly, what does xavier solana have to say about signing such an agreement? i cannot imagine that this agreement, in terms of security, especially in view of the conflict over iran, can even be approved by europe. i would be very happy to have some clarification, since the whole thing has been conducted in a quasi-secret manner, and also because you come from the nuclear-critical country of austria, commissioner.
the commission has already done so. i would like to congratulate president sarkozy, even though i do not like to do so. with his buzz about eu-mediterranean relations, he has indeed given the barcelona process, which has been in existence since 1995, the attention and visibility it deserves. a new debate has been sparked around our southern neighbour. now, in retrospect, i find that sarkozy's original idea of february 2007 has failed three times. first, a possible alternative to eu membership for turkey was effectively ruled out by spain and italy in the rome declaration of december 2007. chancellor merkel then ensured that eu-mediterranean relations were developed within the existing eu structures. the commission has now also put a brake on sarkozy's ambitious plans for the secretariat and the project's leadership. this shows that sarkozy's single-mindedness will not be tolerated in the european union!
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking today about a project which is a pilot for one of the largest and most important political programmes of this commission, namely the liberation of small and mediumsized enterprises in europe from unnecessary administrative burdens, that is, unnecessary bureaucracy. we are not discussing veterinary law issues today, so that is clear, or i wouldn't be here. it is about reducing administrative burdens, which is intended to strengthen the european economy and thereby contribute to job creation. the commission is clear that cutting red tape must never lead to less security for our citizens. so it is not a question of lowering standards, but of enforcing standards in such a way as to avoid unnecessary bureaucratic burdens on our companies. this principle has been strictly observed in this case as well. let me emphasize that the commission does not intend to change the substance of the food hygiene regulations in the slightest. the identification of hazards and the identification of process steps in the manufacturing process at which hazards can be eliminated remain the central concerns. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we want to ensure that the existing flexible provisions on reporting obligations are applied more efficiently. this does not impose any additional burden on the competent authorities in the member states, since the responsibility for compliance is already with the food manufacturers and not with the authorities. we want a system for small businesses which will be exempted from certain requirements of the existing regulation. it is about the very small family businesses: bakeries, small grocery stores, market stalls, cafes and bars, petrol stations, small supermarkets. the question is why we are asking these small family businesses, none of which have anything to do with the single market, to be subjected to the same bureaucratic procedures as the largest supermarket chain. that is the question at hand. i would like to stress that the relevant regulations apply to all food manufacturers involved in the production, processing and distribution of food, irrespective of their size. the rules do not apply to food intended for private domestic consumption. nor are producers of small quantities of unprocessed products for local retail outlets such as farming, hunting and fishing affected. the existing flexible reporting requirements do not differentiate between different sizes of enterprises. so you get this straight: the small shop on the corner where you can still shop at 10 p.m. here in brussels has to meet exactly the same regulations as the huge supermarket chains. i really wonder if that can be right. the nature of the business is such that these very difficult and very extensive regulations are easy to cope with for large companies, but not for small ones. the formal application of the haccp system requires food manufacturers to carry out a hazard analysis. this can be a complex and demanding task requiring expertise. to reduce the burden of such analysis, the regulation already allows small food manufacturers to use a guide to good practice. this guide is produced by the sector relevant to their activities. it is already available for bakeries, breweries, butchers and restaurants in several member states, but not everywhere. the commission proposal aims to ensure that the possible derogations already covered in principle by the regulation and the accompanying guidelines are used more efficiently. in practice, this would mean, and this is the crux of the matter: if a food manufacturer can demonstrate during the initial steps of testing under haccp that there are no hazards to be avoided, eliminated or reduced to an acceptable level, in other words that there is no risk at all in such an establishment, or if he can demonstrate that identified hazards are sufficiently controlled, he should be exempted from all other requirements of the haccp directive. this flexibility - to put it very clearly - is already provided for in the existing directive. it is only not applied by all member states. the commission's proposal is a fast track action, an immediate and rapidly implemented measure within the framework of our action programme on reducing bureaucracy. the proposal has been met with resistance in the council and in some member states, i know that. these member states do not seem to attach the same importance to reducing administrative burdens and red tape costs - especially for their small and medium-sized enterprises - as the commission and the european parliament. however, we have had to give the impression that the discussion among the member states has so far been a purely official discussion and that the political leaders in the member states have not yet addressed this issue. i do not think that the political leaders in the member states whose officials have so far resisted can represent it to their public when hundreds of thousands of micro and small businesses in those countries could get the relief that the commission is proposing but the member state is rejecting. at that moment all the agitation and propaganda we often see against brussels - the 'allegedly so regulatory monster' that wants to regulate everything and wants to restrict everything - would collapse into itself and it would become clear who is really responsible for unnecessary bureaucratic burdens. the commission regrets this, since this proposal is an important substantive and symbolic element of our action programme to reduce administrative burdens. i thank mr schnellhardt for his report and his active support. i urge you all to support this report because i am convinced that a clear political opinion from parliament, as can be given today, will also create the necessary political momentum in the council to push through this proposal.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report we are presenting is a contribution to the process of de-bureaucratisation. it has been shown that, without compromising or reducing high hygiene standards, it is possible and should be possible to facilitate the implementation of haccp criteria, especially for small enterprises. the first priority - and the commissioner has pointed this out - is the facilitation of the documentation requirement. i would like to remind you that these possibilities are already available in the hygiene regulations in force since 2006. but we have to recognize that with the paradigm shift in the hygiene sector, there have also been difficulties in implementation. it has always been the declared aim of parliament and the commission to preserve the diversity of food production in the european union of 27. this means, for example, that small butchers still have a right to exist and should have a right to exist in the future. but the information we have from the countries shows that this right to exist is threatened in some regions. i therefore think it necessary to point out that the possible flexibility in the regulations is also applied. we have emphasized this and nothing else in this report in a clear and unmistakable way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this means that companies with not just 10 but perhaps 11 employees, for example, can also benefit from a benefit and also apply for relief from red tape, of course only if they can prove that they are controlling the risk or that there is no risk. it was also clearly stated that the food business operator is responsible for demonstrating that he/she is able to control the risk or to ensure hygienic food production by other means. in 2006, we introduced hygiene regulations that are literally in force in the eu-27. the amendment tabled by mrs corbey, which leaves it up to the member states to decide whether to allow facilitation in the implementation of haccp, is therefore incomprehensible. this would not only create new subsidiary situations which we wanted to eliminate with the regulation - that is, no distortions of competition - but we also oppose the intention of the regulation with this proposal. so in the regulation we contradict the regulation. this can't be the point! the text adopted by the committee is certainly acceptable, but we explicitly restrict the possibility of facilitating it to small and mediumsized enterprises. the strong involvement of the public authority is also not in line with the principles of the regulation. the regulations clearly state that food business operators are responsible for hygienic work and must demonstrate that they have control of the risk. there are repeated objections that a review of the regulations will be carried out in 2009 and that no action is necessary at this stage. i'd like to disagree. by 2009, all food production enterprises must be certified. the problem is particularly acute in the context of this authorization procedure. this is a matter of debate and threatens the existence of the small butchers mentioned above. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. it is therefore important that the european parliament sends a signal now and once again clearly expresses the intention in the hygiene regulation. this signal is primarily addressed to food business operators and official controls. the european parliament has always been committed to de-bureaucratisation and should now express this through legislation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. food and hygiene go together, there is no doubt about that. everybody's had something wrong with them. on the other hand, too much caution and strict regulation does not produce a large number of hygienically sound products. in case of doubt, a small producer will close his shop because he cannot pay the extra staff who do not bake buns but fill out forms. the host who places pretzels on the counter does not have to keep a record of whether he has wiped the counter and washed the shells. if it's not obvious, the place will be empty anyway. here, responsible legislation is slipping into an exaggerated control rage that does more harm than good. i am therefore in favour of reducing the burden of red tape on entrepreneurs, especially small businesses, which have a harder time dealing with this burden than large companies. i would like to see the increased awareness of the special concern of small businesses, particularly in environmental and consumer protection policy, also reflected in other legislation we are discussing here.
the commission has already done so. we are not talking about more or less hygiene today, we are talking about simplification, about cutting red tape in small and mediumsized enterprises. so the question must be asked again, clearly and clearly: is haccp necessary and appropriate for all cases, for all companies, whether large or small, and whoever is responsible wherever? in the case of companies which sell their products mainly and directly to the final consumer, such as bakeries, butchers, grocery stores, market stalls, and i include the farm cafés, wine shops and ostrich farms, where the person in charge, the entrepreneur himself, is known and often present as the contact person directly to the customer, it is certainly necessary to apply different standards than in the case of large companies. it's about cutting red tape and reporting. i think we should use subsidiarity here, but not by demanding that different approaches be adopted in the individual member states, but we must have a level playing field. i therefore support the commission proposal and the report by mr horst schnellhardt.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen! let me make it clear again: this is not about changing the existing food hygiene regulations! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. everyone must continue to observe our food hygiene regulations. we're talking about something completely different. we are talking about whether the extremely complicated and bureaucratic regulations we have today must be followed by all companies even if they can prove in the first stage of the procedure that there is no risk at all or that the risk is completely under control. that is the point of the proposal. the answer to my question is that the proposal only concerns those companies which can demonstrate at the very first stage that there are no risks to food hygiene or that the risks are under control. this is of course a provision which will have a particular impact on small and mediumsized enterprises, especially the very small ones, because it will be easy for them to provide the necessary evidence. the proposal will not create an additional burden on the authorities unless the corbett amendment is adopted, which means that the authorities will have to intervene at every stage of the procedure, then we will have a greater burden. i ask you to support the rapporteur's proposal. it has indeed improved the commission's original proposal. the point here is quite simple: the existing law is being applied in a way that was not the intention of the legislator at the time, and by amending it today we are ensuring that the law is being applied in the way the legislator originally intended. the commission underlines that the amendment to the haccp regulation does not weaken existing food hygiene requirements. it simply serves to provide greater clarity and, thereby, more effective use of the existing flexibility provisions of the regulation in respect of reporting requirements. the existing flexibility provisions in respect of reporting requirements do not distinguish between different size classes of companies. however, given the nature of operations of larger food business operators, these provisions are less likely to apply to larger companies. the amendment is therefore likely to be particularly beneficial for small and medium sized enterprises. a proposed new recital makes this explicit. the amendment does not create any additional compliance burdens for competent authorities since the responsibility to demonstrate compliance rests exclusively with food business operators. the objective of the amendment is to reduce administrative burdens on companies through a more effective uptake of the existing flexibility provisions on reporting.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank you very much for the contributions that have been made here. i think that one thing has been clear in almost all the contributions: we want to reduce bureaucracy, we want to make it easier for small and mediumsized enterprises in europe to implement haccp. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it says very clearly what we want. this is a simple way to proceed, building on the regulations adopted in 2006. we are giving the authorities and the food industry a procedure that will enable them to react in the short term. and i pointed out earlier in my piece: the difficulties arise in the registration of the companies, which is to be completed by 2009. we need to send a signal here. we are in favour of reducing bureaucracy, we are in favour of hygiene standards which are not weakened by this proposal, and we are also sending out information about what parliament wants.
that's two explanations, and that's enough.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, on 1 june, on the basis of information received through the european community urgent radiological information exchange (ecurie) system and guided by the principle of precaution, the commission released a public statement about the alert message from slovenia at 17.38 local time. this concerned the loss of coolant that occurred in the primary cooling system of the krško nuclear power plant in south-west slovenia. according to the last information received from the slovenian authorities, the reactor of the nuclear power plant of krško was completely shut down on wednesday, 4 june at 19.30. the relatively small leakage remained within the containment building. the slovenian authorities have confirmed that there has been no discharge to the environment. the situation can be considered fully under control. the commission immediately transmitted this information to all member states according to the procedure and released a second public statement. the information about the incident came from the european community urgent radiological information exchange system. the ecurie system requires that member states promptly notify the commission and all the member states potentially affected when they intend to take counter measures if necessary, in order to protect the population against the effects of a radiological or nuclear accident. the european community needs to immediately forward this notification to all member states. all the 27 member states, as well as switzerland, have signed the ecurie agreement. the commission emphasises that the ecurie system is an information-sharing system about nuclear incidents, and the commission considers that a full transparency approach is the most appropriate response in cases of nuclear incidents.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have recently received a picture from a radioactivity monitoring station in krško, and this picture shows that there was an astonishing spike in radioactivity measured the day before the alarm was triggered. there's got to be an explanation for that.
we are putting an end to this matter, and the commission will take all this into account. we're going to go through our normal procedure. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
we haven't voted yet, but i hope you're right.
all language versions are checked.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i see here another amendment before this, amendment no 1. the oral amendment is an addition. now in english. the addendum reads:welcomes the commission proposal that the eu co-presidency should be held by the competent eu institutions, and then the original text continues.
the new text of paragraph 10 should read as follows: ‘considers that the new proposed secretariat should be integrated in the commission services, could comprise officials seconded from ...’. then the original text continues.
in writing. - what questions do young people today ask themselves when faced with the choice of a career? is it the content of the job, the prospects for the future, or the quick buck? all these questions are often answered in the negative when the profession of farmer is at stake. only 7% of farmers are under 35 years of age, which is an alarming decline in the level of employment. many young people enjoy farming, working in the wild with animals and plants. is it the prospects for the future or general uncertainty that is holding young people back? whereas the position of the court bailiff was once a prominent and secure one, today the one who takes over the court is often handicapped by many burdens and obligations. we know that only well-trained and motivated farmers in europe can guarantee our standard of living in the area of healthy food and healthy nature. but we must also be aware of the challenges facing young farmers today. we need to involve young farmers more in policy discussions and decisions. they are the hope of europe! they address the multiple challenges of ecology and economics and ensure a well-balanced social environment in rural areas. they need the reliability of politics.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 5 june 2008.
i am not going to go into detail. i would like to make two statements. the second statement is on behalf of the conference of presidents. the outcome of the 12 june 2008 vote in ireland is leading the european union to one of the most difficult challenges in its history. the lisbon treaty, which grew out of the constitutional treaty drawn up by a public convention of national and european parliamentarians, will make the european union more democratic, more capable of acting, more transparent. it strengthens the european parliament, gives national parliaments more responsibility for shaping european policy, enables citizens of the european union to take initiatives towards the european institutions and ensures local self-government. the lisbon treaty is the response to citizens' critical assessments of the european union's shortcomings. this treaty brings the european union closer to its citizens. we must leave no doubt that the implementation of the treaty on reform is an absolute necessity if the european union is to be able to defend its values and interests in the 21st century. without the reforms made possible by the lisbon treaty, the accession of more countries to the european union is hardly conceivable. we call on the eu summit in brussels next thursday and friday to take all appropriate steps to implement the reform treaty. the ratification process must be continued in full. we ask the irish government to come forward with proposals on how we can overcome this difficult phase of european politics together. the european parliament will be fully committed to meeting these challenges. we expect the same from the european commission and from all the governments of the member states of the european union. we also expect the european parliament to be fully involved in the work. our aim remains to bring the lisbon treaty into force by the time of the european parliament elections in june 2009. i will be determined to defend these principles before the european council in brussels on 19 and 20 june, subject to your agreement. (applause from the centre) the debate will take place on wednesday morning with the council and the commission. it is not intended to be discussed now, but on wednesday morning there will be a debate on the preparations for the european council, and it is sensible that we should then discuss this with the heads of the council and the commission. we need to have a very structured debate, and these were my beliefs on that debate. i have also presented it because the former president of the european parliament, simone veil, who is receiving a high award in spain on wednesday, asked me personally to give the laudation. i was not allowed to avoid this invitation, and i wanted you to know my personal views on the events in dublin and the challenges we are facing. the conference of presidents has asked me to make a statement on the middle east. a delegation of 14 members from our middle east working group, led by veronique de keyser and annemie neyts-uyttebroeck, visited israel and palestine from 30 may to 2 june 2008. the main issues discussed were the strengthening of the palestinian security forces, the question of the expansion of settlements, particularly around jerusalem, economic development, restrictions on freedom of movement in the west bank and the humanitarian situation in the gaza strip, which is isolated and subject to international sanctions. the delegation report, which was adopted unanimously - and the delegation was also representative - and which was presented last week in the presence of the council and the commission and then transmitted to the conference of presidents, is depressing. while some encouraging progress has been made, it is regrettable that this has proved to be sectoral and limited. the overall trend is not cause for optimism. the present state of affairs makes the ambitious goals of annapolis unattainable. the delegation, which also shares the view of the conference of presidents, is unanimous in its view that the blockade of the gaza strip must be lifted, that controlled border traffic of goods and persons must be re-established and that the violence must be brought to an end. the west bank must also adopt a new course: the credibility of the palestinian authority must be strengthened and the conditions for sustainable economic development must be achieved in a sustainable manner. the policy of permanent partitioning and territorial separation pursued by israel has been countered. in line with the american government, which made this statement yesterday through foreign minister condoleezza rice, it calls for an end to the expansion of settlements, particularly in east jerusalem. we believe that no one has the right to evade the commitments agreed at annapolis. we must take this path seriously. it takes courage and strength to renew politics. it is up to us europeans to accompany and support our partners in this process. the european parliament will take its responsibility with determination. the european union's relations with israel and the palestinian authority must be developed in a way that promotes the peace process as a whole. the barcelona process union for the mediterranean could be an additional element in promoting peace. the european parliament expects to be adequately consulted in the context of european efforts for peace in the middle east. while we're here, the fishermen in the gaza strip are putting their boats in the water. the blockade has led to a massive pollution of the environment, which threatens the livelihood of the fishermen, who are protesting. they're demonstrating for their right to fish, to live, to be free, to live in peace. our delegation has promised to support the fishermen. i would therefore like to express the european parliament's solidarity with these fishermen on behalf of all of us. i would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, also for having listened to this statement which the conference of presidents has asked me to make.
the final draft agenda for this part-session has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday/thursday: no change in the number of days worked. the european parliament has voted in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. further amendments to the work programme: see minutes.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
i am grateful to mr papastamkos for his encouragement, but i would also ask you to keep to the time, because there is one minute for this explanation of vote. i was also told that you wanted to talk about something else.
mr batten, the comparisons you have drawn are totally inappropriate. i take the liberty of saying that as a comment. you are in a very lively parliament. if parliament did not speak, you as a living person would not have been able to speak here. (applause from the centre)
- i'm not sure. since you have addressed me personally, we are a community of solidarity, and that solidarity always applies, including in this case. thank you for taking notice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. last week, china demanded an end to the tibetan protests as a precondition for further talks with representatives of the dalai lama. according to the chinese foreign minister, the tibetans should stop trying to ruin the olympic games. but it cannot be that the repression of the tibetan protests in march is to be accepted by the tibetans without a word. the chinese government has the opportunity to fundamentally change the situation in tibet. the tibetan people will be involved in constructive change through sincere dialogue without preconditions. first, a clear signal must be given, not least by allowing foreign observers into the country to get a picture of the situation for themselves.
i would like to thank mr horáček. moreover, our resolution of 10 april, in which we said that we demanded that no politician from the european union should take part in the opening ceremony on 8 august unless the rights of the tibetans are guaranteed, is still valid. i would recommend this statement of 10 april to everyone.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i listened carefully to the previous speaker, mr szájer, who attacked my colleague, mrs magda kovács, in a completely inappropriate way. mrs kovács is my deputy in the socialist group. it is not present, and therefore cannot defend itself against this attack. i know that mrs kovács is a convinced democrat and a very committed fighter for european unity. it is not at all deserving of any colleagues abusing this house to pay any bills they may have internally in hungary. i think that is a completely inappropriate and deeply insulting statement to the personality of magda kovács, which i reject with real disgust.
that concludes this item.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading by caroline jackson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on waste and repealing certain directives (11406/4/2007 c6-0056/2008 2005/0281 (cod)) (a6-0162/2008).
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am not satisfied with the compromise, but i am not satisfied because mrs jackson has negotiated wrongly, but i am exceptionally, dear stavros dimas, dissatisfied with the commission. the commission is extremely strict in its approach to aircraft, industry and cars, and it is right to bargain for every ounce of co2 reduction. but in waste policy, co2 is not a factor at all. we can save 100 million tons of co2 in a proven way. this is a huge opportunity that has been squandered in this document. the second thing i regret is that we've become this kind of concrete company. we are emphasizing the disparities in europe, not aiming at harmonization. we may have defined objectives, but those objectives are not binding. we shall not have any real harmonized objectives in europe for the next 20 years. that's what bothers me about this report. 20 years is almost half a generation. we should have been much more innovative, and that would have been possible. i think there is only one big problem, mr commissioner, and that is article 14. i would be very happy if you could add something to that. that may be very complicated in a federal state. it is a question of mixed or unmixed waste and how it is treated under the principle of autarky. i would ask you very warmly to comment on this question again in your explanatory statement. of course, there are some who say that we will have a large majority. but if these questions are not resolved, some large countries will have a very difficult time. i would like to remind you that we have not only tomorrow's reading, but also a third reading, and 64 amendments in a conciliation procedure is a relatively large number. so if you take the opportunity, commissioner, to explain a few things about these open questions, i can imagine that we will come to a good conclusion.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the proposal is a disappointment. it is a failure to acknowledge the need to do more to protect the climate and conserve resources. we know that the european environment agency has forecast a 50% increase in waste by 2020. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a clear dilution and a retreat from what would have been necessary. it is also disappointing that incineration is increasingly becoming the ultimate solution and that waste prevention is being pushed into the background. so we would have needed these recycling rates and the stabilisation of waste to correct this imbalance. i hope that by adopting amendments we can improve this draft a little and really do what is necessary: namely, to develop an ambitious waste policy, such as we need in the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we shall table an amendment, which has already won a majority in the house on first reading, as a cross-party motion. it 's about this problem: in many countries in the eu, uncontrolled feeding or the uncontrolled dumping of untreated, unsterilized food waste is a recurring occurrence. this behaviour always brings with it the risk of diseases such as foot-and-mouth disease. it is therefore necessary that such food residues be sterilised and disposed of in a safe manner by approved undertakings using appropriate procedures. member states may only authorise the use in feed for pigs if a sterilisation at 133 °c at a pressure of 3 bar has been carried out for a period of 20 minutes and all other requirements of regulation (ec) no 1774/2002 are fully complied with. i am convinced that if parliament adopts the amendment, the council will take this regulation into account in the compromise.
i have to say, madam president, i think we can congratulate the rapporteur. it has achieved a good result with the council. in particular, i would like to emphasize that the divergent hierarchy was implemented. but there are also negative points which are actually incomprehensible and which the council has brought into this document. this applies to animal by-products. so far, we have decided in the committee that animal by-products are excluded from this waste framework directive. what the council has now done is such a bureaucratic hurdle that it should actually force a farmer onto the barricade. it states that manure that is processed into biogas is suddenly waste. do you know what that means? this means that the farmer must obtain a permit to process waste, that he must specify the quantity and type of waste involved, and that he must indicate the location. the by-products directive clearly states that there are exceptions for manure. so when the farmer puts the manure on the field, it's easier than turning it into biogas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the second point is the question of waste oil. the waste oil framework directive - which is now being repealed - has so far provided for the recycling and recovery of waste oil. there are large quantities being translated there. it was, of course, already clear that this should not apply if it is not economically viable and technically feasible. it has now been decided that the member states should decide. yes, are we now a european union or are we again member states? so we're clearly reopening the market here. i think that is very worrying. the question of the extension of the autarchy. the municipalities now decide who, when, what to dispose of. of course, the pressure from the municipalities, who do not use the incinerators, was very strong. but this is the wrong way. it is not possible to do so, and this expansion is completely undermining the market economy in this respect.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday, 17 june. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading by anne laperrouze, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the common position of the council of 20 december 2007 with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy and amending directives 82/176/eec, 83/513/eec, 84/156/eec, 84/491/eec, 86/280/eec and 2000/60/ec (11486/3/2007 c6-0055/2008 2006/0129 ((cod)) (a6-0192/2008).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we know that water is the most precious resource and we cannot just dig it up ourselves by not having an ambitious water policy. it is very regrettable that the back wind given by the european parliament to water protection at its first reading, by doubling the list of pollutants to be controlled and by obliging eu member states to take measures to reduce nitrogen emissions, has unfortunately been blown away. the result is a missed opportunity to do more for water conservation. it is important to ensure consistency between the different legislative areas in the field of water protection. we need to ban cmr pesticides and endocrine substances. i therefore regret that the commission is constantly playing the shifting-station game at the expense of health and the environment. the commission said in 2006 that it did not intend to make any proposals in the environmental quality proposal for the reduction and limitation of pollutants of priority hazardous substances. the commission has already proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. but what happened? it was just a report, our proposal here in parliament, that has brought coherence to the water framework directive and to pollutants. parliament has produced it, not the commission, as it promised to do. we therefore call for the prohibition of pesticides on the list of priority hazardous substances. the simplest solution is to avoid these dangerous substances from entering the water in the first place.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. 'water is life' or 'water is as precious as diamonds' were the headlines and the motivation when we launched the water framework directive in 2000. the directive on environmental quality standards in the field of water policy is now the last major piece of legislation in the context of the water framework directive. it is about setting environmental quality standards for priority substances and pollutants, which ensure that our water, as the elixir of life, is protected against risks to a high degree - yes, i mean the highest possible level of protection. the protection that is necessary and possible according to the state of science. but for me, it also means that protecting water is a continuous task. we must constantly and continuously accompany scientific research and results with political support in order to absorb new knowledge and to guarantee the protection of water in accordance with the latest scientific and technical developments. the commission must not fail to do its job and let time pass by without doing anything. the list of priority hazardous substances must be evaluated and monitored on an ongoing basis and in a timely manner. the commission's inaction has led us as a parliament to take action and propose a second list. a list of substances to be tested according to the latest knowledge. this list should not be a pre-qualification or pre-judgment. it should also be a chance to free the substance from the suspect. of course, such a list cannot be made at whim. the epp-ed group has called for a more rapid and priority treatment of substances for which data are already available today showing increased risks. six months seemed sufficient. i very much hope, commissioner, that the 24 months now provided for will not be used up completely, so that security findings can always be implemented in good time. we will support the compromise mrs laperrouze has found.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as a co-signer of some amendments on behalf of the epp-ed group, i would like to take this opportunity, as a member and also as vice-president of the committee of the regions, to explain to you my views on the solidarity fund and its revision as rapporteur for the european parliament. since the report on the commission's draft of the new solidarity fund was adopted by parliament by an overwhelming majority in may 2006, this draft has been pending in the council. there a majority of member states reject the new fund in its amended form. the new solidarity fund has not been included in the work programme of any of the previous council presidencies. on the contrary! the revised version is blocked by the finance ministers in the council. the new fund, designed for the period 2007-13, is therefore not in force. unfortunately, for the time being, only the old fund, which has existed in its present form since september 2002, has been valid, and it was then done with a hot needle. after tough negotiations, we succeeded in negotiating compromises here in parliament in 2006 to make this emergency aid instrument, the solidarity fund, more rapid, effective and, above all, clearly defined. the council now wants to bury this revised version once and for all. i cannot understand how we, as a community of solidarity, can reject an emergency instrument which bears the name of solidarity, because of the sensitivities of some member states. we've improved this instrument. we expanded it. i cannot understand how those who have already benefited from this fund can now refuse to give their consent. i therefore urge the council to reconsider its decision and finally adopt the revised version. we are a community of solidarity, mr president, and no one knows when or where the next disaster will occur. it 's your responsibility too ... (the president cut the speaker off)
member of the commission. − mr president, whenever we speak about international trade or european integration, we have to think of customs, which is responsible, at the eu external borders, for the correct administration of all the measures designed to tackle the dual challenge which customs is facing today: to facilitate trade while also protecting european citizens and the environment. during the last 40 years, european customs has done its best to work efficiently together like one single administration. it has often been the avant-garde in european integration. it is truly remarkable that a policy which does not very often hit the front pages has nevertheless managed to play a pioneering role in opening new paths both for the economic development and the integration of the community. today the role of customs remains important, difficult and, regrettably, not as highly valued by the public as it should be. however, the correct work of customs forms the basis for the success of our single market and the free movement of goods, persons, capital and services. customs action touches the very core of community work and impacts on the daily life of our citizens, often without people realising it. in order to raise our citizens’ awareness about the crucial role of customs, i have launched an eu-wide communication campaign on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the customs union. member states’ customs authorities have backed this idea. last week i visited three main points of entry for goods at the eu’s external borders – the port of rotterdam, frankfurt airport and the röszke crossing point at the hungarian-serbian border – with a view to highlighting the everyday work and the high motivation of our customs officials. this is the subject of a news package now available to the media in order to inform the public in the coming months. coming back to the core issues, customs today have to meet five strategic objectives: the first is to protect the financial interests of the community and its members. in 2007 the total amount of custom duties transferred to the eu budget amounted to eur 16.6 billion, which represents 16% of the community budget. the second is to facilitate legitimate trade and to support the competitiveness of european companies: the modernisation of the community customs code and the introduction of ecustoms are two instruments to this end. the most recent concrete achievement was the introduction of the authorised economic operator concept as of 1 january 2008. the third is to protect the safety of our citizens against terrorists, drugs and counterfeited and pirated goods that can even endanger their health and life, by controlling the supply chains used for the international movement of goods. the fourth is to maintain, develop and enhance cooperation between the customs authorities of the member states, between customs and other government law enforcement agencies and, furthermore, between customs and the business community. the fifth is the cooperation between the european union and third countries – cooperation with other target countries for fake goods and terrorist devices, like the us. our approach is based on exchange of information, cooperation on risk analysis and risk management, the mutual recognition of security standards, findings of security controls and the customs-trade partnership; but also on cooperation with countries of origin of counterfeited and pirated goods, like china, where 60% of the fake goods come from. in 2005, we signed a customs cooperation agreement and established a joint customs cooperation committee which meets annually. last year we launched a pilot project on smart and secure tradelanes between european and chinese ports and recently we have started to develop a programme of action to be signed at the december eu-china summit. we need to establish similar cooperation with other countries like india, turkey, the united arab emirates and others. since 1993, once a consignment is cleared by a national customs authority, it is free to circulate amongst all the other member states. this means that customs have one single opportunity to control goods and seize any illegal traffic. the result is that the customs union is as strong as its weakest link. by this i mean that it would be very easy for traders to spot the point where controls are less accurate or less strong and divert the illegal consignments to these points. it underlines the responsibility of the customs authorities of member states with external borders. in view of the ever-increasing international trade and this responsibility to combat counterfeiting, customs activity remains high. i will give you some figures to illustrate the workload in 2007: 183 million customs declarations were processed, which means around 5.5 customs declarations every second; 1 545 million tonnes of seaborne cargo and 3 million tonnes of airborne cargo were handled; 43 cases of fake goods were found and seized, which amounted to 79 million counterfeited and pirated articles, and the trend is upwards. we will only be able to meet the dual challenge that customs are facing if we rethink our working methods. this means, for example, moving from the current transaction-based approach of customs formalities and controls to a system-based approach focusing on the internal control systems and supply chain of the economic operators. of course this does not mean abandoning the control of individual shipments but basing these controls on risk analysis. such a new approach implies new working and control methods and a common risk management strategy for all eu customs services. it will also offer a platform for working with the member states on the most appropriate operational structure to be put in place in future for an efficient functioning of the customs union. new working methods also imply that all national customs authorities are well equipped with skills, competences and resources that can maintain and increase their efficiency and effectiveness. to reach these objectives, the commission proposed, in its communication on a strategy for the evolution of the customs union, the development of a strategic plan. this long-term planning should allow national authorities to forecast their needs for resources, training and equipment so as to permit the developments to be made in a synchronised and harmonised way throughout the 27 member states. this permanent channel of communication will also help us to ensure a simultaneous implementation of the new measures. on the eve of the 40th anniversary of the customs union, i am asking for your political support for the commission’s initiative for a strategy on the evolution of the customs union. i am glad that the text of the resolution to be voted on thursday takes into account most of the commission’s ideas about the major axes of evolution of the customs union on closer cooperation, addressing security and enhancing the efficiency, effectiveness and delivery of customs for the benefit of the internal market. i would not like to conclude this statement without thanking the european parliament for all the support it has given to customs throughout the years.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the 40th anniversary of the customs union is a remarkable date. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think it is important that we keep telling the citizens this, that we make it clear to them what they have from the european union, what we achieved in this context. i would like to say that the commission has not been able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budget is properly implemented. the work you are also doing with china and the european union countries you mentioned, these are important steps for our economy, but also for our consumers in the european union. because we want to have safe products and safe services that we can move forward. and that is of great importance. we have now also brought modernity into our last guidelines for the customs union by introducing electronic customs. i think that's also very forward-looking. if we succeed in bringing these positive aspects of european union policy to the outside, if we succeed in making it clear to the citizens what they have from the european union, then we will be able to lead them back to the european union. this is what we should be doing together. i would like to thank you very much, commissioner, for the work you are doing in this connection in the european commission.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. forty years of the customs union, as mrs gebhardt has mentioned, are an element which makes it clear to the citizens that the european union has fulfilled part of what it promised forty years ago. it has, over the years, and my group, mr commissioner, has supported it in all the legislative proposals you have brought to the european parliament in recent months, protected the financial interests of the european union and its member states far better than the member states could have done on their own. it has facilitated investment from one member state to another in a way that member states alone could not have done. we have been able to make a significant contribution here to making this investment even more easy in the future, through the modernisation of the customs code and the electronic customs system you mentioned. it must be added, however, that the cost of this changeover has unfortunately remained with the companies. the customs union, i believe, will face considerable challenges in the coming years. i therefore believe, commissioner, that it is important that your strategy addresses and responds to these new challenges efficiently and effectively. in my constituency, as you know, there is a problem with customs clearance at the swiss border. i hope that we can solve the many small questions that companies face every day in the future in the same constructive way as we have done in the past. customs will have to take much more account of the european union's security interests in the coming years - and this is the challenge your strategy will have to meet - than in the past. of course, this includes protection against counterfeiting and piracy, but it is also becoming increasingly important to link aspects of global terrorism even more closely to customs duties. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. good luck to you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not in the face of increased exports and the gains of globalization, they seem to have been overlooked: the people in poverty. 78 million in the eu, including 19 million children: a process of habituation? a clear no! young people who fail and drop out of school are just as likely to be affected as older ones who, despite decades of work, have little pension to cover their basic needs. they feel subjectively excluded and objectively often left alone. the result is a daily life that is extremely stressful both mentally and physically: insecure housing, problem areas, the risk of debt, alcohol and drugs a life in which dignity and self-confidence are absent. the annual poverty reports in our member states send out alarming signals. last year, i watched a debate on the floor of the german bundestag, the keyword being "the lower class". it led to weeks of controversial public debate. that's what the people in poverty need: to be noticed, to be taken seriously, to be shown ways out of poverty. the very good report by maria panayotopoulos-cassiotou - i can say this on behalf of the epp-ed group and very personally, dear maria - gives us the green light for 2010 as the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. if not only analyses are published, but vulnerable groups are actively involved and given a voice, if institutions show concrete achievements rather than just good intentions, if education experts show motivating teaching that has led to school graduation, and if social transfers are visible that have been proven to reduce the risk of poverty in a sustainable way, then many who still feel marginalized today may finally feel that they have a right to participate in our society.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the left group in the european parliament supports the report presented by our colleague and, therefore, the objectives of the european year for combating poverty and social exclusion. the impact of poverty and social exclusion as a social problem, but also, and especially, on the individual lives of those affected by poverty, has been made very clear. it has also been mentioned on several occasions that 78 million people, 19 million of them children, live in poverty within the eu. but to seriously combat poverty and eradicate it as a social problem, concrete, binding policy strategies are needed. political objectives and the guarantee of individual rights to a life free from poverty and social exclusion are on the agenda. but that is not what the european union is proposing. the main policy strategies of the european union are not linked to the fight against poverty. economic growth and job creation do not reduce poverty. even the richest member states of the european union are seeing an increase in the number of people living in poverty or below the poverty line. in germany in particular, low income has declined in recent years, but the number of low-wage earners has increased. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in a uniform manner.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. let me translate the title first. when we talk about some natural biological resources, we talk about wood and we talk about fish. wood and fish are key resources for social and economic development in the west african region. we'll also talk about cutting down the forests. we all know how dramatic this development is. in west africa, about 13 percent of the forest that existed there fifty years ago is still standing. that means 87 percent of the forest has already been cut down. we all know the effects of this on climate change, on desertification. we have just as dramatic figures on the extent of overfishing in this part of the atlantic and the major problems it causes. we all know the images of canoes full of migrants from west africa landing on the canary islands. the link between this development and the increased migration from west africa to the european union is obvious and undeniable, and it is also the subject of political debate in our societies. the european union is the main consumer of timber and fish. we ourselves say that we, as the european union, buy about 80% of these products. it is therefore necessary and good that we review the coherence of our development policy, our fisheries policy and our timber trade policy with regard to west africa, in terms of whether they work together in a positive way or whether they are counterproductive to their objectives. both products are aimed at preventing predation and promoting sustainable management. the aim of both products is to ensure that the local economy and local supply take precedence over international trade. if we do not achieve this, then any self-sustaining development will be undermined there and the success of any development cooperation will be called into question. that is why this coherence review is so important, so that we do not question and undermine the successes of our development policies by other policies that we are making. we know the tools to improve the situation. we need better monitoring of fish and timber stocks, and we need better monitoring of timber and fisheries activities. we need to build up the infrastructure needed to do this, both in the area of research into stock development and in the area of control and monitoring of economic activities. we have known this for a long time and we have been moving in this direction politically for some time. in this context, we must above all combat illegal logging, illegal fishing and the trade in illegal products. we have to do this on the ground in west africa. we must support the west african partner countries in this, and we must support them in the european union in terms of market access. we need to expand our control systems. it is a crucial task of development policy to shift to a sustainable, conservative approach to logging, forestry and fishing. let me now turn to one point and one conflict in relation to the report. we have explained in this report that we need to improve the framework conditions for joint ventures between european union firms and african partners, that we need to create investment security. i think it's right and necessary. but we must be careful that this does not lead to new overcapacities that counter our other measures, such as those to combat overfishing. it is absolutely essential that we resolve this conflict. that is why we have added a paragraph to the opinion of the committee on fisheries with this statement. i want the procedural conflict we have - when and where who may add something - not to be overshadowed by the content. i think it is absolutely essential that we insist that no new overcapacity should arise here. we cannot, as was requested, remove this item from the report.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank my colleague, mrs fraga estévez, for her very constructive personal cooperation in the report and for the many problems we have solved. we should separate this from the fact that there is an institutional conflict between the committee on fisheries and the committee on development over the interpretation of the rules of procedure. this has to do with the fact that we have been given a new task by the icei, which is to check the coherence. the council has decided that 12 policy areas will be examined for consistency with development policy. these policy areas are then always the responsibility of other committees. there are always institutional conflicts. it is a problem, but i would like to thank you for the personal cooperation which has been good in this area. commissioner, i believe that the commission is on the right track with the flegt process and also with the new fisheries partnership agreements since 2002. this is a good starting point, but i would encourage you to take this path further and radically towards promoting sustainable development. there's a lot to be done. this right approach needs to be further developed. i am sure you have the support of this parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. of course, there is no monocausal connection here. migration has many causes. but there is clear evidence that there is a link with overfishing as well. and it is not just the european union that is over-fishing. the international organisation for migration has demonstrated this very concretely in the case of senegal. the president of senegal is therefore very ill advised to close his eyes to the reality of his own country and its own coast. we should be more critical and tackle this problem together.
the chairman of the council. − i am very pleased to be here today to talk about the return directive, which is practically the first act we have managed to work on together parliament and council in the field of migration. we have not had that experience before and i have to say that there has been an enormous amount of effort from both the council and parliament and in particular from mr webber to get us to where we are today. the positions we have coordinated in the council have been very long-term. it took us more than two years to agree on some basic principles on which to base a political trilogue. we started the political trialogue at the end of last year and we have continued it this year, and the approach we have taken, which has been supported by the rapporteur, mr weber, and for which i thank him, is that we first had the majority opinion of the majority of the member states and tried to harmonize the texts, and then we sought the qualified majority in the council to support the text we were harmonizing. some points have been extremely difficult or difficult to achieve, and one of the areas of particular importance - both for parliament and, of course, for the council - is the period during which we can detain or restrict the movement of persons who enter the territory of the european union illegally. it should be made very clear that only ten countries have a shorter period than six months. only 10 of the 27 member states have a shorter period than six months, all the others will have to adapt their legislation to the six-month period proposed in this directive, which is a significant advance in terms of possibilities and, of course, in terms of restricting movement. it is also important to note that this is a major step forward and that the standards that all countries will have to follow are being standardized. until now, each country has been acting on its own legislation and i certainly hope that we can find the appropriate consensus here in parliament today and achieve a first reading and a first reading vote. the toughest nut in our conversations has been practically offering legal aid to individuals. we have listened to the arguments and the position of parliament here in the council and accepted it, albeit with great difficulty, by negotiating until the last day, practically the last negotiations on this point ended the morning before the council of ministers and there we also managed to convince the council of ministers to adopt the rules that parliament wants, despite the fact that this means a substantial increase in work and also the contribution of financial resources that individual member states will give. we must remember that the situation with illegal migration is very different - from the mediterranean, where the daily problems are great, and even greater during the summer, to some countries that are far from the migration flows and which can, of course, react to migration in a completely different way. i must say that i am of course pleased that we have found compromises that will help improve the situation for migrants, that we have focused on the most vulnerable groups of migrants - families, children - that we are giving them substantially more rights than in many national legislation at the moment, and that seems to me to be an extremely great progress and an extremely great achievement also on the part of the negotiators of parliament when we discussed these issues. of course, there are other things i need to say. i must say that the compromise that was reached at the council was achieved with extraordinary difficulty. the negotiations, in which i myself was personally involved with the other ministers until the very last day, were extremely difficult and arduous, and there is now an unmistakable, firm position in the council that this is a text which is still acceptable to the council. any amendment or modification of this text would constitute a vote of no-concord by the council, which would naturally mean that the directive would not be adopted at first reading. what are the consequences? we will not have common standards, we will not improve the situation that we all want to improve, and the process of adopting this directive will be considerably longer and more protracted. if we are very optimistic, we can know that we will not be able to harmonize the return directive for at least the next three years, and of course we will also make the situation of all those who could be significantly improved significantly worse. but that is not the only consequence of not adopting this directive. the consequence is that this will also affect the other directives we adopt in the codecision process, for which the way we negotiated in this process could be a good example and could make a significant contribution to improving the work, particularly with the directives on the green card and on certain other rights of workers coming into the european union. i think the path we've mapped out is the right one, and that's the way we're going to work. in conclusion, i would like to thank the very constructive and fruitful cooperation between the rapporteur, mr webro, all the shadow rapporteurs who were present at all times during the political negotiations, and of course the vice-president and his staff from the commission, who have helped us to find a compromise solution on many occasions.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i too would like to thank our minister, mr dragutin mate, president of the council. i would first like to say that this case really proves that the codecision procedure is effective, even when it comes to complex and difficult cases. the european commission advocates an integrated approach to migration, and this coherent approach requires a consolidation of the channels of regular immigration, the integration of immigrants in local situations, an effective and generous asylum system. but of course, if we accept this regulation of the conditions for admitting third country nationals to the european union, we must also provide for rules applying to those who do not or no longer meet the conditions. otherwise, our immigration policy would lose its legitimacy. it must be recognized that there is a risk of a vicious circle. by not doing anything about illegal immigration, we make life more difficult for those who are at risk of exploitation by malicious employers and we also make it more difficult for those who are there, the regular immigrants, to integrate. so i think we must break this vicious circle by the balance that minister mate spoke of. the directive incorporates into community law the relevant provisions of the european convention on human rights. its adoption will enable us to apply the community control mechanisms designed to monitor compliance with the acquis. whether it is the priority given to voluntary return, the right of irregularly staying persons at risk of return, the retention of these conditions, the protection of the best interests of the child, respect for family life in the context of return or respect for the principle of non-refoulement, the directive reduces the grey areas and thus makes it possible to better combat the exploitation of children by illegally staying third-country nationals. the directive obliges member states either to take a decision to repatriate or to grant a right of residence to a third-country national. this approach enhances legal certainty for all concerned. the directive therefore also has the advantage of giving the commission the possibility of monitoring its implementation and i can assure you that the commission and myself, who am in charge of this dossier, will ensure that the fundamental principles of respect for the rights of migrants are respected. in particular, we will assess the impact of certain provisions on detention, entry ban and legal aid. as mr mate said, the directive will oblige all member states to pay particular attention to the rights of the child. the implementation of these rules must be in accordance with the european convention on human rights and the united nations convention on the rights of the child. the commission will take particular care to ensure that the specific situation of these most vulnerable persons is adequately taken into account. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank in particular mr manfred weber, the fictitious rapporteurs and your committee for the extremely important work that has been done in the pursuit of what i believe is a directive which will ensure effective controls while being very attentive to human rights. the commission's ambition is to put in place this coherent european framework for a return policy that is both effective but also law-abiding and under democratic control. if i may, i would like to conclude by referring to the three declarations which are part of the compromise agreed with the co-legislators as they were included in the annex to the compromise amendment by your rapporteur, mr weber.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president barrot! two and a half years of debate on this return directive are now behind us. i would like to thank you before i go into the substance of the matter. we had a complex issue, we had a very emotional issue that moved many people in europe strongly, and we had a new procedure: the codecision procedure. thank you for that. in the libe committee we had a large majority in favour of our ideas of a serious proposal. we are able to reach consensus in parliament. i would like to thank you for the fair treatment of each other and also thank you to the slovenian presidency of the council, because this was the first presidency in two and a half years which has really given momentum to the debate. let's get down to business. we are not talking about asylum, which is what they keep saying. the asylum directive is another legislative issue. we are talking about the people who are in europe illegally today, millions of people who are in europe illegally and whom we want to bring out of the illegality. the slavery we have there today must be ended in the european union. it's about legalization, it's about a legal residence permit, but it's also about repatriation. i would like to address my remarks today to those in this house who are still sceptical, who are still asking questions. there are the allegations related to the period of detention: six months, extendable for another twelve months. then it says, there are countries that have 30 days, that have 40 days. the european council of ministers of the interior has committed itself not to use the directive as an argument for deterioration, i.e. to maintain high standards. we are improving the situation in these states. why does no one see that we have written a separate chapter for children, for families, a separate article to set minimum standards? especially for the unaccompanied children who need our help the most. we have defined minimum standards here. why does no one see the obligation to guarantee access to health care, to guarantee access to education for the children? why does no one see the message in the length of detention, that we want to keep it as short as possible, and that a person can only be detained if there is a legal possibility of repatriation? in other words, the tactics of exhaustion that are being used today will be banned in the european union in the future. why can't anyone see that we have legal aid, that ngos have access, that we have rights of appeal? the directive contains great advances. we've narrowed down the countries of deportation. the european parliament has enforced the principle of voluntary departure. so what we do not have in all countries today will be a principle in the future. the council of europe has expressed criticism. i read about it in the papers. all the council of europe guidelines on return are now incorporated in this directive, thus becoming law in the future. so why does the council of europe criticize its own guidelines? we're making great progress, including a five-year ban on reentry. please remember this: the commission had proposed the obligation to impose a five-year re-entry ban. we have now succeeded in getting that obligation lifted. we in the european parliament have succeeded in getting a better regulation in place. there's gonna be a lot of criticism today. many colleagues will speak and describe how bad the deportation facilities are, how bad the situation in these facilities is, how inhuman the return process is in the european union today. we have been exchanging this for two and a half years now, and i thank you for this exchange. but i am also saying it clearly today: anyone who votes against the directive, anyone who votes against this trilogue result, is ensuring that we in the european union do not make any progress in improving these human rights standards. that is why i ask that we be able to act. it is precisely in view of the fact that the irish people have rejected european development that we can document in this dossier, in this area of co-decision, for the first time: we are capable of action and we want a strong, a humanitarian europe! (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr manfred weber. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs jeannine hennis-plasschaert, who has been able to bring this difficult process to a calm conclusion, together with the other rapporteurs, in the course of the last three years. i would like to say at this point that i consider it impolite and unworthy that the tragedy of the dead in the mediterranean should be linked to this directive, which has nothing to do with it. this can't be happening. this directive creates legal certainty for people where it does not exist. it will improve the lot of people who are currently living in inadequate conditions, who do not know when they will be returned to their countries and who have no access to judicial review. they are minimum standards for 27 member states. but it is better than what is now for a third of the member states which have no standards at all. it is the first step towards a much-needed common asylum policy and a europe-wide respect for human dignity. i think that those who want to take these steps with us should take their responsibility and vote for this report.
i have to say, madam president, i'm going to leave my speech manuscript. i wrote down a lot of other things. but what we have here is definitely not the non plus ultra. i too have imagined more or better arrangements. i have two souls in my heart: the one who wants the best and the one who has to decide here at european level, including on minimum standards to be applied in countries which have no standards at all. everyone should look into their own country, what is happening there, what standards it has. does it look that great? as the european parliament, we can only set minimum standards. the fact that there is agreement in the council is almost a miracle, because four or five states, including my own federal minister of the interior, did not want to have any regulation at all and said: 'the way things are with us is enough for me.' the question now is whether national parliaments and national governments can do much better. they are not prevented from finding better solutions. where does it say that? i also learned a phrase in my studies: a glance at the law book makes finding justice easier. mr deprez is right: let us read all the articles together and it will become clear what we can do here. it's not like we're gonna find the philosopher's stone here. it has never been found. quite the contrary. but i want to see this compromise used as a basis for doing better in the european union in the future. and my colleagues in the bundestag, in the german länder, must help us do this, because we are facing 18 months of deportation. we have a return ban that is much longer, and we have many decisions in individual states that are not acceptable. to say that it is a shameful thing , i can only recommend: it is not the way to go and, dear justo, just being against it has never helped the people who have to work in this area and who are in countries without a directive.
i have to say, madam president, for years we have been calling for a comprehensive approach to all aspects of immigration and the return directive is clearly part of that package. legal immigration into the european union can only be rationally regulated if we do not continue to host millions of illegal immigrants and equate this state of affairs with legal immigration. when mrs roure points out the right of illegal immigrants to escape poverty, i must point out that on the african continent alone 922 million people live in poverty, that we have 1.1 billion people in india, many of whom want to come to us. this is the wrong way to handle something. so please support this return policy so that the way is cleared so that we can finally get to really good rules on legal immigration and really help people.
the chairman of the council. - i would like to add something to what i have listened to carefully and what you have said in your speeches. first of all, it should be very clear that today, we are talking about the return directive, we are talking about illegal migration, we are not talking about asylum, we are not talking about asylum procedures. there are very big differences between these two things. the directive on asylum has been in force since 2003 and is working. today we're trying to take a step forward. it is important that we take this step forward and the council has also committed itself in the political declaration which you can read on the penultimate page that for those persons for whom the conditions for detention will be met, not for all those who are not, detention may be carried out for six months. and in exceptional cases where specifically stipulated, this may be extended for a further 12 months. it is not about automaticity, as has been heard many times here today, for 18 months. - no, it's not true. and another thing, in the political declaration the council made a clear commitment, and i quote: 'the council declares that the implementation of this directive cannot justify the adoption of provisions which would worsen the status of persons and would be less favourable to them. "that means no country, and such countries are six with all the six ministers i've talked about. all six ministers insisted in the council's negotiating process that it was less than six months. but unfortunately, most member states, which have much longer periods, also have unlimited ones, and a few countries in the european union now have the practical and theoretical ability to detain an illegal migrant indefinitely. and that's where we want to make progress. and it's imperative that we make that progress. i would like to make a special point of contacting particularly vulnerable groups of children. please, members, look again at rule 5. look again at rule 15a. it clearly states that there must be no less favourable conditions for a child, that he must be given access to school, to kindergarten. he must be housed in special institutions that make all this possible. the restrictions are very strict. and even at this point, the negotiations were very difficult, it wasn't that easy. i don't know if you can imagine all the members of this house, but just one tiny detail from the negotiations. we negotiated for four hours on one article, article 14, four hours on each word. member states have recognised that this needs to be addressed at eu level. and what are you deciding here today? is it going to be solved at the national level, as it has been, or is it going to be solved at the eu level? and one of the members of the house said very nicely, illegal immigration is, is a problem, is not or is, is. we need to regulate this area, we need to regulate it in the most civilized way possible. and we need to take the first step. i know that for many people this is not a good compromise, but it must be remembered that for the member states too this compromise is on the verge of being acceptable. you should know that a very large number of member states do not want a common policy in this area. the member states will be, many member states will be happy to be able to regulate this in their own way, at home, with their own rules, without the consent of the european parliament and without the control of the european institutions. and the situation we have is worse than the one we're proposing here today. and that's why i say this is an important and decisive step forward. and what is being decided here today? it is not a question of the actual wording of these articles, which are here, or of the success of the negotiations between mr weber and myself on the one hand and the council and the commission and the commissioners on the other. we decide on the integrity of integration policies. if we reach the point today of saying no to this directive on illegal migration, you can imagine how difficult it will be to move to decision-making, to co-decision on legal migration. we're going to have to take that first step, and if we don't take that first step today, the future and the way we're going to take that first step is way ahead of us, way ahead of us. i can tell you here today with all responsibility that if the directive is not adopted at first reading, a large number of member states will be putting themselves on their negotiating footing, which is extremely rigid and extremely rigid. and then, of course, a very long time will have passed before we can sit here again and decide to adopt a common position. however, in the end, a compromise will have to be reached. no extreme position will be accepted. that's the basis of democracy. not that it's just somebody's word that counts, and last but not least, i respect the opinion of all the ngos, all the other institutions that have opinions and that are fighting to make things better. it is right that they should fight for this, but we must remember that in the final analysis all of us, both we in the council and you in parliament, are accountable to our constituents and we know what problems are arising in these areas. and this is, as i've said several times now in this closing speech, the first step, a very important step that we have to take together on this journey to improve the rights of illegal migrants and to shape migration policies in general.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i shall confine myself to giving some additional information in this debate. firstly, the return directive, if it is to exist, will not be isolated. it is part of a whole which is based on the concept of concerted immigration. therefore, as a number of members of parliament have pointed out, there will indeed be legislation on legal immigration and legislation which will strengthen our asylum procedures and our reception of refugees. there will also be, and there is already, a concerted policy with the third countries from which immigrants come. i am personally convinced that it is in partnership with a number of third countries that we will be able to find the ways and means of this concerted immigration. that's what i was going to say in the first place. secondly, i would like to point out that the purpose of a directive is to give us, and this is very important, a legal framework which will enable us to apply the community mechanisms which will enable us to monitor compliance with the acquis, namely infringement procedures, jurisdiction of the court of justice, report from the commission, control by the european parliament. the advantage of having such a directive is that it opens up the way for much more effective judicial control. the third point for parliament's consideration is that parliament has nevertheless made progress, particularly through the articles on children. the spirit of these new articles, article 8a and article 15a, is that, as far as possible, children should not be detained. and if they are ever detained, the added value of the directive is that it obliges those member states which have decided to use it to respect the minimum guarantees laid down in article 15a, which you have just mentioned, mr minister. the fourth point i would like to make on the record is that we also have financial means which will have to be used. we have a return fund of about 700 million which should enable us to provide assistance in legal aid, health care and a number of problems for reintegration in certain countries of origin. the fifth point i will borrow from president deprez, who said that the commission would be asked to draw up a report within three years. i would like to say that it is not just this report that will create an obligation for us, but everything that underlies this text: the will to give the european union procedures subject to judicial review, procedures that try to balance both this need for regularity without which we cannot make our public opinion accept regular immigration and this need to ensure that the principles of the convention on human rights are always respected. i can tell you that if this directive is adopted, i will be personally involved in its implementation to ensure that this spirit is not lost sight of.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking you for the substantive debate. it's amazing, with this emotional subject, that we're so objective. i must say that, given the breadth of the issues today, i am proud to be a member of this parliament. we had a slip-up: mr catania has accused us all of being responsible for the mass graves in the mediterranean. i would like to reject this demagogic language. we're all trying to do our best to help the people there. i do not want to say anything more about the content. they were widely discussed. i would like to say a few words about the procedure. our chairman of the libe committee has spoken very wisely. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity. we withdrew our applications. we want the motions to be put to the vote. that is why we have contributed to this. we have dealt with hundreds of motions in the home affairs committee and organised large majorities there. this means that any member who was interested in the subject could participate. i would like to say something about the ngos. i understand that the ngos are not happy. if we are discussing environmental issues here, greenpeace will never be satisfied with the result we achieve. it is the job of the ngos to create more and more pressure. but i'm going to make a prediction for you today: if we adopt this directive, the same ngos that are protesting now will use these legal possibilities tomorrow to bring cases against the member states before the court of justice. and i predict that the colleagues on the left who are arguing against the directive today will ask the commission, mr barrot, tomorrow to enforce what we have decided here! they will try to use this legal situation to give people advantages. that is why i say: it is not an ideal situation, but we have made a good step forward. one last thought: unfortunately, mrs roure and mr fava of the pse are not here today. they're out there, giving tv interviews, trying to make their case. you have not heard what mr mate said, namely that either there will be this progress - thank you again for the slovenian presidency - or we will not have progress for many years. we will continue to discuss that we need to make decisive progress, but we will not achieve anything. the question tomorrow is not whether the directive is ideal or not, but whether it is making progress in the european union. we can answer that question tomorrow with a good and clear yes.
in writing. right-wing ep majority paves way for mass deportations the eight million people who have been living in the member states of the european union for many years without a valid residence permit are facing deportation and expulsion. the ministers of the interior wanted to 'clear the deck' before they agreed to a uniform regulation on legal immigration into the european union. the german interior minister peter altmeier recently told the german daily die tageszeitung: "we have reached a decision in germany's interest that the deportations of those we want to get rid of will be facilitated in the future". the compromise text reached between the council and csu mep weber allows for up to 18 months of detention in exile, separation of children from their families and a five-year ban on re-entry into the european union for those who have been expelled. the gue/ngl group of the left is protesting against this inhuman practice. this directive is fatal to the european union's attempt to establish itself internationally as a champion of human rights. 44 african and latin american governments have issued a joint appeal to meps to reject the bill. in a strong and emotional letter, bolivian president evo morales had earlier reminded meps that during the last two centuries europe's refugees from poverty and repression had found refuge and friendship on other continents.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i too would like to thank the rapporteur. i have been thinking for a few days now about slovakia's accession to the euro. the epp will support this report. we have tabled amendments and compromise amendments to this effect after the events of the changeover from the krone to the euro, because this changeover beyond 15% has also led to a dispute in parliament. we can only ask the commission - and not just ask, but even invite it - to help to specify certain criteria for future accessions, which are laid down in the treaty. since i have been in the european parliament, i have been present at all the accessions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and then we're going to have an endless story here. it is important to me that we look at joining the eurozone much less as a matter of national honour and more as a goal of objectifying the criteria of what is good for the country that joins. the appreciation of the krone by more than 17% is certainly economically justified. whether it was right to combine the timing of the appreciation with the accession to the eurozone is another question. we should therefore do everything we can to ensure that the euro and the economy as a whole do something good, and not limit ourselves to the short-term political situation, whether european or national. let me just briefly address what happened on thursday. i think it is wrong that the european parliament - and we shall have a big debate on this tomorrow - is continually ignoring this. we shall be voting today on slovakia's accession to the euro and on ecofin in july. but on thursday we saw a euroland say: we do not want this european union as it is! the commissioner, your country, with its high representatives, has responded to this song. the euro was never an end point. the euro has always been a stopover on the way to further development of the european union. and all of them - unfortunately the council is not here - are asking the question: what is next for europe? what are the next concrete steps? some speak of the european core, of other alternatives, some say stop enlargement, but some also act as if nothing were to change. that is why we will take another start on the euro and then perhaps another one. but we should also take account of the political realities in the european union in our decisions. that is why i am divided on the vote today as to whether it is the right way to simply ignore the vote the reality in europe .
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not in fact, slovakia has achieved amazing things in a few years. who would have thought that slovakia would actually be one of the first countries of the new member states to join the eurozone? but this hard work is not over, it must continue. the commission and the european central bank have made clear in their analysis and assessment that the question of whether inflation can actually be sustainably maintained at the desired level remains open. in fact, slovakia itself sees this problem. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the euro is not used as a currency. i can only appeal to slovakia: please do not give us a reason to experience a second slovenia, where inflation has started to gallop as soon as the country has joined the eurozone. the move you have made to revaluate the krone shows that you are serious about fighting inflation. in fact, imported inflation, especially in the case of energy products, can be somewhat contained in this way. but this does not mean that action in other areas is not still very important. commissioner špidla has mentioned it: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we know that the situation in slovakia varies greatly from region to region. there is above average unemployment in some regions and a shortage of skilled workers in others. mr radwan is absolutely right. joining the euro is also a political step, not just an economic one. it was conceived at the time as the beginning of a phase which would end with a very great deepening of integration. i hope that slovakia will contribute to making this accession a success in the end by means of a moderate, correct and structural policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. slovakia has enjoyed a great economic boom and we will be voting in favour of slovakia's accession after the highly controversial debate on whether it meets the criteria. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr casa, for including the concerns raised in his report. it is not that the process of reform and reflection ends when you become a member of the eurozone, but that the challenge begins. inflation is and remains a problem in slovakia. it is not without reason that there have already been two revaluations - the last one recently by 17.65% - and i predict that there will be another revaluation of the slovak koruna before the final fixing of the exchange rate. this means that we all have to play our part in achieving real convergence. i hope that the council and the finance ministers will take parliament's concerns seriously and that the commission will have an open discussion in this process in the future.
mr farage, i gave you the floor because you asked for it, but i have to tell you that you are late with your request. the question of whether there is a resolution is decided by the conference of presidents. we can call it back in plenary. but this should have happened earlier. they are now too late, so it remains that there will be no resolution. that's the business situation, and we're following the law. your volume is no substitute for your arguments.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. we are about to vote on the extension of the mandate of enisa. enisa to remind you is the european network security agency, which we all set up together with the council five years ago. the mandate of enisa will run for a period of three years, with a rotation until the middle of next year. my report now provides for a three-year extension of the mandate until 2012. this is also in line with the decision-making process in the council. in particular, enisa is intended to contribute to internet security. however, given the increase in cybercrime, this is not possible with the existing staff and the limited financial resources available, so that in the next three years, during which we have extended this mandate, we will have to consider what tasks the agency should take on in the future, what role it can play, and then we will have to provide the necessary staff and resources. i would urge you all to agree once again to the extension of this three-year period for this agency and then to make the effort to enter into the debate on the future of this agency.
so, my friend! i cannot comment on the facts you are referring to. but when you speak of such a thing here, it is a very serious matter and you should be aware of the implications of your statement.
i would like to thank mrs caroline jackson. i have known you personally for many years and i have not the slightest doubt about the integrity of your personality. the text of your statement can be read and it is all duly noted in the register.
mr president, if you wish to speak, it must be in accordance with our rules of procedure. i therefore approve the amendment.
amendment no 27 was adopted, and amendment no 92 was therefore obsolete. we'll check that out, but that's what we've established here. we shall vote on amendment no 27 again; that is possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is always the possibility of a mistake and if i have acted too quickly or have made a wrong announcement, then i am responsible. i'm sorry, of course, but we shouldn't make a big deal out of it. we'll look into it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there can always be a mistake, even in your group. if you accept that for yourself, then we're already on the same level. i'm going to try not to do it so fast anymore, so you can see if you didn't win. you all right?
i would like to thank mr lehideux. if you don't want to put that on me, i'd appreciate it.
in writing. − i abstained in the vote on the introduction of the single currency in slovakia on 1 january 2009, because i do not believe that the doubts about the freedom to manipulate slovakia's monetary policy have been dispelled. in view of the current uncertainty about the future of the eu following the irish referendum, i also believe it is appropriate to analyse the causes first and not to continue the process of monetary integration as if nothing had happened.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i too would like to thank the rapporteurs for the very good cooperation they have shown on this package and would like to begin by responding to a criticism which plays a very important role in the german debate on the energy package and in particular on the disconnection of generation and the grid. we europeans are constantly accused of wanting to torment large and successful companies. i have not found such a negative attitude in the debates we have had in the committees. it is a positive list, in my view, and brussels cannot be represented often enough. we are concerned with fair prices for energy, especially electricity. we want transparent pricing, fair market conditions - also for new and smaller producers. we are concerned with better conditions for decentralisation, an important prerequisite for the organisation of the networks, in order to be able to take renewable energies and efficiency into account. and we also want to put an end to the waste that is everywhere in the existing network structures. if that's not a positive overall canon that's included in this energy package, then i don't know what is. many colleagues who do not agree with the majority decision of the committee on industry say that the market can achieve all these objectives if it works and is left alone politically. but so far, the so-called energy market in europe has been creating prices at the highest level, with an upward trend. there is complete opacity in some countries in the pricing of energy, growing concentration in the energy market and insufficient or at best mediocre implementation of the climate and environmental objectives. the unbundling of generation and the grid is an important step towards the positive objectives of energy policy. it is not good, even in the light of the irish vote last weekend, for a franco-german political cartel to oppose the parliament's proposals and also the original commission proposals, because this is a classic balancing act. the germans and the french, angela merkel and nicolas sarkozy, are supporting domestic enterprises at the moment. what we want to take into account are the interests of consumers and the question is whether we are really making our energy economy sustainable or not. the majority of citizens would not choose the europe of the corporations, but at this point the europe of consumer protection and fairness. thank you for your attention.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we agreed that it was about better prices, more investment in networks and cross-border connections, more competition and less monopoly and oligopoly. then we looked at the facts and found that the facts that the commission had presented were wrong from the top down. because there is no evidence, no facts that ownership unconditionally means better prices and more investment. that's not true, man. or do you want to explain to me why prices are higher in the uk? is there more investment in spain? is there less or more competition than in other countries? the facts clearly show that this one solution, which is supposed to be the solution to all the problems of the world, does not exist. it is therefore only wise to seek a compromise on how to open up this path to member states which wish to follow other paths in order to achieve this objective which must be achieved. this is the background to the attempt at a third option, a third way. it is interesting, by the way, that we in the committee on industry have already made some progress in this direction in recent months. there are other committees that voted against ownership unbundling. there is a new compromise in our committee on gas, drawn up by mrs laperrouze and mr vidal-quadras. there is also a new compromise in the council. we are not going to vote for the amendments, but we are going to vote for the amendments. that's outdated, and that's not going to be the outcome. a parliament which wants to be taken seriously must be prepared to accept these new circumstances and changes. we are in a hurry throughout the whole procedure and i have been told again and again that we must move a little faster, we must hurry, we can still try to find clever solutions in the direction of parliament's decision. i therefore urge you to agree tomorrow, across all party lines, to the proposals that are here to find compromises in the direction of what we have decided on gas and what the council has decided.
i have to say, madam president, we have talked a lot about industry in the last few minutes. i am glad that mia de vits has made a very strong statement on the rights of energy consumers in her report. it is about ensuring that consumers know their rights and that they are also sure that their rights are actually being met. unlike mia de vits, however, i do not think that we need fundamentally new laws here; the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are properly transposed into national law. so we need strong regulatory authorities to look after this, and we need to make sure that we have enough transparency so that consumers actually know their rights. the charter can be a useful complement to this, not in the sense that it now becomes a binding legal document, but simply in the sense that, by summarising consumer protection laws in the energy sector, it actually represents a kind of guideline for politics and economics. we all know that it is a given that our citizens can only participate in a meaningful way in social and economic life if they also have access to an adequate supply of energy. it is therefore right that we should ensure that everyone, including the poorest and most destitute, is given their rights here. i do not think that the aim is to impose social tariffs from brussels. we should leave that to the member states and to industry in the member states. otherwise we will be introducing nothing but redistributive mechanisms. the best thing would be to actually link the protection of the poor with the efficiency measures that are necessary to achieve our climate goals. and this is where smart solutions like digital meters can actually come in handy. i am therefore not opposed to our trying to encourage industry to introduce it within ten years. the consumer then knows exactly how much he is consuming, can adjust to it and save.
i have to say, madam president, i am very pleased that we have a very good report on the table with the de vits report, and i am pleased that all the members are in agreement on solidarity, transparency and consumer protection. i think that's wonderful! but i must say that i find those on the right side of this house both incredible and cynical. unbelievable because you are not in favour of a binding consumer charter - something that is very important for citizens to know what their rights are - and cynical because we were all in this house for passengers to know these rights, and passengers are not the poorest in our society. but the poorest people who need to know that, they're not going to have it. so i really ask you to reconsider and make sure that we compulsorily draw up this bill of rights!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we all have a common view of the situation in the european single market. we have not yet a single european market, we have national markets and we have monopolies or oligopolies on national markets. we have a situation where energy prices are rising every day and we are dependent on energy imports. let us assess the situation, we are all in agreement on the goal. it has been said by many colleagues that we want more competition, lower prices, more investment in the networks, the expansion of interconnectors, so that we can also have crossborder exchanges. we do not want the market to be concentrated in a few large suppliers. the big question is how we are going to achieve that, and that is where the minds differ. there are many colleagues who have spoken today who say that ownership unbundling is the panacea. i say, if we only bet on this path, then we are blind in one eye. it can't be. let me refer to a few countries. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. in spain, endesa's share of the power generated is 48,3%, and iberdrola's is 28%. in sweden, vattenfall is a top-tier company, with a share of almost 48% of the power generated. and we have a market concentration in italy by enel, which amounts to a market share of 43.9%. i am not sure that the ownership unbundling instrument will achieve what we want, which is to open up the market and create competition. i therefore ask all members to support amendments nos 165 and 168 tomorrow and not to be blind in one eye. everything else in the morgan report is fine with me. i would like to compliment mrs morgan on her very dedicated work. but at this point i think we should also open a second way for the countries which have just unbundled themselves in a different way. the countries where the state still holds 100% of the production and distribution of the network may keep this, as for example sweden. i am not saying that we should not be able to adopt a package tomorrow, where there is a level playing field. that's a fallacy!
i have to say, madam president, i'm sorry i was late earlier. the house sometimes has long walks and very slow elevators. the question we are debating today and voting on tomorrow is not necessarily a question of left or right - we have those debates in this house, of course - but we are debating the instruments for achieving an objective. we are in agreement on the objective - as mrs niebler has just emphasized - we want more competition on the european market, we want more transparent prices, we want prices that are manageable. the instruments for this are very different. i am one of those who believe that the third way option can also be an instrument. we have brought these proposals here and have repeatedly stressed that we have not only introduced the third way, the original proposal of the council, but we have also introduced additional regulatory elements because what came from the council as the third way was also a little too little for us. in this respect, we should talk about it again and go inside and allow this second and third way as an additional option. the important thing is that we have a uniform regulation in europe, that the regulators in the member states have uniform powers and independence to enforce what we decide here, because they are the ones who ultimately have to react on the ground. the commission's antitrust and competition supervision is working, as we have seen in two striking examples in recent weeks, although the timing sometimes makes one wonder a little. but a company which abuses the antitrust rules deserves a penalty. i'm not going to cross that off. but we should be talking about whether the tool that we're giving ourselves and the regulators to do that really needs to be ownership unbundling or whether we should offer a little more flexibility. i hope that the vote tomorrow will be such that we can find a compromise. otherwise we shall certainly have to seek and find a compromise with the council. thank you very much and again, i apologize for being late.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the transatlantic trade is currently worth some 600 billion euros a year. the commission is now proposing to open up the market for chickens disinfected in chlorine solution. i am very sorry that the commission is not able to demand and obtain market access for our unchlorinated chicken in the united states. i would like to say, however, that i support the commission's proposals in principle, because the scientific opinions are clear. the european food safety authority has provided a very clear opinion. we don't need any more reports. no one here, or on the other side of the atlantic, wants the health of people to be threatened by food. but if there are genuine concerns about the substances used in the united states, then i ask myself: why are they allowed here in the european union, here in our homes, as additives in feedingstuffs, as additives in drinking water and as additives in other foods? i know how much emphasis is placed on food quality and food safety in many member states of the european union. what would france be without its coq au vin, for example? this world-famous french export product is also manufactured for export using the us method by chlorination. it is obvious that this method is so good that it is suitable for exporting european quality products. so it is a somewhat dishonest discussion, in my view. the commission has made clear proposals to ensure the safety of european consumers. i believe that the labelling must be clear and visible, so that the consumer can really see what he is buying. i would also say that the consumer will choose our european chicken anyway. but i urge everyone not to hide behind alleged environmental or health arguments, but to be clear about what is really at stake. it is a question of honesty, and it is precisely when it comes to having a serious discussion with friends like the united states that honesty in politics is urgently needed.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mobility is a fundamental right for every individual. it is also the basis for the economic, cultural, social and environmental dynamics of a society. but it becomes a blessing only when it minimizes the danger to the lives and health of all road users. the need to improve the protection of pedestrians and other vulnerable road users has not lost its relevance in the last decade. the number of accidents and the severity of injuries to pedestrians and other unprotected road users in frontal collisions with vehicles with and without frontal protection systems has increased considerably, but at the same time decreased, although not to the desired extent. i very much welcome a regulation to supplement all the efforts of vehicle manufacturers to improve passive measures of pedestrian protection - for which i expressly thank them - by an active vehicle component. brake assist systems are suitable for resolving conflicts related to energy, environmental and safety objectives. brake assistants available today will provide a major boost to accident prevention. their technical development and combination with information and communication technologies will open up further potential. but we'll talk about the smart car in the future. but we must remember that we can still demand many good safety measures for vehicles. if citizens at home cannot afford the new, safe vehicles, then we have done nothing, really nothing! the average age of our vehicles is already over ten years. young people in particular are less and less able to buy a safe new vehicle. but that's what we want, isn't it?
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. for eight years we have been ratifying every treaty without interruption. for eight years, we've been ratifying ourselves to death. the european union has been dealing with itself for eight years: with its own institutional reforms, which it cannot get on its feet. this is the same union that demands from candidate countries that they carry out processes of transformation that it is not capable of itself. what credibility does this union still have? mr president of the commission, you were right when you said that the institutions of europe are not to blame and that they should not be allowed to be scapegoated all the time. that's right. but who is making them scapegoats? in the capitals of europe there are a lot of people who sit in the council on thursdays and who, every time they come home from brussels, say, in the event of success: that was us, the heads of state and government, and in the event of failure, that was them in brussels! tell the council what you've said here. and, moreover, you are being discussed publicly here in this parliament. the heads of state or government will meet again on thursday behind closed doors. this has to stop. it is the member states who are responsible! (applause from the centre) we have a downward spiral of negativity that is dangerous. the task of european unification is in danger. there was a moment in the irish referendum, which we must respect, that really upset me. with the exception of sinn féin, on which i do not want to say anything more, we have called on all the irish parties, the epp, the liberals, our party, to vote in favour and the people have voted against. this is the alarm signal, and we are all concerned, including those in this chamber, that there is a crisis of mistrust, a crisis of confidence, a crisis of confidence in the national institutions, in the supranational institutions. i don't need your applause. whether irish sovereignty is represented by the ideology of the united kingdom party is a matter for the future. the irish can do without your protection. i want to make it very clear that we must also respond to this crisis of trust together. we have to take this seriously! i was wondering when you, mr president of the commission, would say a word about your commissioner mccreevy today. (applause from the centre) this is the man responsible for the internal market policy in the european union. for the same single market, which, because of its social imbalances, is understandably perceived by an increasing number of citizens as a threat rather than an opportunity. this man in your commission, who is responsible for this single market, stands up in ireland and says: i have not read the treaty either. you don't have to. how can i gain trust in such a way? (applause from the centre) i say to you that the best social policy measure for europe that you can propose on 3 july is to withdraw the dossier from mr mccreevy. because this man has proven himself to be incompetent. i cannot accept a single market commissioner who represents the one-sidedness of politics in the way that mr mccreevy does. the commission's proposal is to be seen as a step in the right direction, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take it into account in its proposals for the future. i would like to ask you to take action against this commissioner. (applause from the centre) i also wish you'd said something about the financial crisis. i have not heard a word from you about the crisis in the international financial markets. and to you , dear daul , i 'd like to say something . there are 21 heads of government in the european union who are members of their own or the liberal party family and an equal number of members of the commission. the epp group in this house is - i am happy to admit - open to some social policy measures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what europe needs is a concerted social action. they have the majority in europe, in the council, in the commission and also here in parliament. you could also demonstrate your social responsibility, which you just demanded. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to welcome mr daul. (applause from the centre) there will be a way out of this crisis, i'm sure. somehow, we'll get the irish back on board, too. but that's not gonna help us! what we need is the recognition that there was a time when the pro-european movement had a soul. the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the european union, and it has been a key player in the development of the european union. today, anti-europe has a soul. i can tell you, this soul, you see how mobile they are: they have walked in ireland, they have climbed stairs, they have rang doorbells, they have distributed their tracts, they have been everywhere. where were the pro-europeans? where is the movement for european unity? where's the passion we used to have? the passion is on the other side today, on the right, among those who speak ill of europe. those who speak ill of europe because they are afraid. but the mixture of social degradation and fear was still the gateway to fascism in europe. i therefore appeal to all the constructive democratic forces in europe to take this movement seriously. let us finally do something together again, and that is to appeal to ourselves that there has been no more successful history of securing peace in europe and in the world than the transnational, intercultural and interreligious movement based on social equality called the european union. you have to fight for it if you don't want to leave it to these people! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i expect the european council tomorrow to make a clear self-criticism, a self-criticism for its flagrant failure to communicate and inform the people about a european treaty. it's really huge that governments negotiate contracts, and they have beautiful ceremonies to sign them. then they go home to their capitals and don't worry about it anymore. this is a major part of the misery we have seen in the past, and now again in ireland! (applause from the centre) i also want consequences: the council must finally break the deadlock and launch a common communication strategy with the commission and parliament so that we can really take the citizens with us on the road to europe and not leave them behind. it turns out that they're behaving like parents who put a child into the world and then leave the child in a ditch, just don't take care of the child anymore. you can't do that! there must now be a consistency for a common communication and information policy, which is also part of democracy. that's the basis of democracy, that people know what it's about and that they're taken with it. i like to listen to the people in ireland, but when mrs sinnott said yesterday that in one town the majority voted against the lisbon treaty because a waste incineration plant is being built there and we have a european law that calls for waste incineration, i wonder what a waste incineration plant in an irish town has to do with the lisbon treaty. there were many such arguments. we must also be honest: not everything that has been put forward is really acceptable and must be taken into account. we must think of a new formula for ratifying the european treaties. each country must be able to express its will, and i hope that this afternoon the house of lords will ratify and give a clear signal that it will go ahead.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the fact that there are so many epp heads of government is an indication that the epp is probably closer to the people and therefore more likely to win elections. but we must see that there are signs in this case that we must find a balance between sound economic and social policies. i fully respect the irish result. but i do not respect the propaganda of those on the right and those on the left who have tried to mislead the peoples against this united europe, which is the most successful idea of peace, freedom and prosperity that has been realized in the history of this continent. (applause from the centre) we must see that this europe helps the small peoples in particular. they sit at the table, they sit in this parliament, and nothing can be decided against them in europe, whereas in the past the big ones were pushed aside by the small ones. that is the difference, that all peoples are equal in this europe, and that is what you want to destroy, mr farage, with your british imperial ideas! we want this treaty to make enlargement work, to introduce democracy to close the democratic gap by strengthening national parliaments to secure the subsidiarity clause, to enable us to meet the challenges of the future from the energy crisis to the fight against organised crime to give us the capacity to respond to food and oil prices and the like. all this will be destroyed if we do not get the instruments through the treaty of lisbon and in particular the social rights - the charter of fundamental rights, questions relating to the cross-cutting social clause. 26 states can ratify. each country has committed itself to doing so. i have learned from the uk about representative democracy, that parliament can speak for the people, and i will not let ukip destroy what i have learned from the uk. that is why the 26 states can ratify it through parliamentary means. if we succeed, the irish people will have a second chance. we are waiting for proposals from ireland to keep the community of 27 together, because i do not want a divided europe, a core europe, but the 27 together as one unit with equal rights. that is why i am in favour of the lisbon treaty.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to express my gratitude to the irish people and also to the caeuc campaign in ireland which argued against the lisbon treaty. there have been three rejections of this treaty, one in france, one in the netherlands and now, slightly modified, one in ireland. it is necessary that this be accepted at last. i am reminded of bertolt brecht's words: "wouldn't it be easier if the government dissolved the people and elected another?" that's how i understand a number of statements made here. the treaty was discussed in ireland on its content, in particular its neoliberal character, its militarization and, above all, its undemocratic character. i think it is necessary that this vote simply be accepted. the treaty is dead, and it needs another treaty! we will certainly take note of and document the series of undemocratic statements that have taken place here.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the compromise between the ep's rapporteur, mr weber, and the interior ministers on the so-called return directive is flawed: it is a question of the credibility of the european union in terms of human rights. that is why my group is firmly opposed to the directive. parliament, as a co-legislator, had a legal and moral duty to promote acceptable and above all humane regulations. it should have taken full responsibility and fought for it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. although the directive improves the legal situation in some member states in individual cases, for example because there is no limitation of liability in national law, the overall context is crucial. the directive legitimises people who are "accused" of wanting nothing more than to find a better life for themselves and their families in europe to be imprisoned for up to 18 months. the existing practice of removal detention in the member states does not justify or excuse, in our view, the continued treatment of people in need as criminals. instead of sanctioning this common practice, which violates the human rights of illegally staying third-country nationals, at european level too, member states should instead seek a lasting solution to the migration problem. for our group, this means, in particular, finally establishing a community legal migration policy which guarantees the human rights of migrants and offers a perspective to people who come to europe in great need and often at the risk of their lives. the european parliament has failed to show responsibility and to stand up to the council. the urgent appeals of numerous human rights organizations and churches have sadly gone unheard.
in writing. - as rapporteur, i welcome the overwhelming support for the european parliament's resolution on missing persons in cyprus. the exhumation and identification of the remains of missing persons is the right of all concerned relatives. only by finding their relatives who have been missing for decades and by giving them a dignified funeral can greek and turkish cypriots put an end to this painful chapter in their lives, as this is the final certainty about the fate of their loved ones. i am convinced that this can make an important contribution to the positive developments of a reunified cyprus. the eu is already actively supporting the work of the committee on missing persons (cmp) at the exhumation sites, the anthropological laboratories and with the affected families by allocating financial resources. it is important that the committee on missing persons carries out all the necessary investigations and inquiries while there is still time for eyewitnesses to comment on this humanitarian problem of missing persons. for this reason, i consider it necessary to increase the eu's financial contribution for 2009 by an additional amount of eur 2 million and at the same time i would like to ask the council and the european commission to agree on this additional financial support.
in writing. − why i voted against the deportation directivethe directive, which has been negotiated by eu interior ministers, not only includes a possible period of detention for so-called 'illegal immigrants' of up to 18 months, but also a five-year entry ban for refugees once deported. the directive threatens deportation and expulsion to the 'home country' of some 8 million non-eu citizens who do not have a valid residence permit. the directive also provides for the possibility of detention and deportation of unaccompanied minors. this is clearly in breach of the un convention on the protection of children. the plan is to deport migrants to transit countries other than their home countries. many procedural safeguards and legal rights for migrants to challenge their expulsion have disappeared from the final text, which also jeopardises the rights of those migrants who can apply for asylum. overall, the directive creates a basis for stigmatisation and criminalisation of migrants who are deprived of their liberty and detained in inhumane deportation prisons without having committed any crime. the directive lowers european and international human rights standards by further worsening the living conditions of migrants. this new step is the logic of the immigration and asylum policy practised by the eu states since 1990, which is characterized by a permanent reduction in the rights of migrants. now we must resist the implementation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i am a little irritated that the presentations of the negotiations, the forthcoming talks, have not made more of the fact that europe cannot be unanimous or united on many issues in these, in my opinion, rather decisive talks with the newly elected president medvedev. this applies first of all to the whole field of energy policy. it is a big problem that, although we are discussing a lot about dependence on imports of both gas and oil from russia, we are not really coming to a common strategy on these imports at all, but that the large member states, individual member states, are still pursuing their own strategies and there is still no really common european strategy on security of supply in terms of the contracts with russia. the same applies to another very sensitive area. i think it is good that, in addition to the issue of georgia, the individual conflicts have now been raised, that when we say georgia we also speak of abkhazia and ossetia. i simply do not see in the introduction of the council and the commission any indication of how these so-called frozen conflicts with russia are to be negotiated after the decision on kosovo. we as a parliament should know a little more about this, and as a member of the delegation that was in moscow last time, i would be very interested in your doing something for the ngos in russia, which are suffering greatly under a terrible law, and making this a topic in your talks.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! after some colleagues who are against the lisbon treaty have called for a unified policy towards russia, i would remind you that in moscow, after the vote in ireland, bottles of champagne were opened because it once again demonstrated the weakness of europe and that it can continue with individual countries alone. i am glad that the partnership and cooperation agreement can now be negotiated, in which we can deal with the critical issues such as energy security, for which we will only have competence under the lisbon treaty, as well as human rights issues. i am sure that the slovenian presidency of the council will represent european interests at the summit, just as chancellor merkel will, and that mrs merkel will also stand up for human rights and political interests in sochi. i believe that this can be done, and we must remind mr medvedev of what he said, namely that a state is measured by the development of democracy and the rule of law. and what he said, we should take seriously. but we should also make it clear that we have common interests with russia, not just in energy matters, where we need to establish security. russia is a member of the security council. how can we stop the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction if we do not get russia, a member of the security council, on our side, for example on the question of iran, the middle east and some other areas? that's why we should make this clear. but at the same time, russia must not get too much power over gazprom. they must also submit to competition control! let me make one final comment: if we are to pursue common interests with russia in the framework of a strategic partnership, it must be clear that there can no longer be a policy of the near abroad and zones of influence. in a europe of independent states, each country must have the right, under the helsinki convention, to join or not to join an alliance. no other country has a veto power against an independent decision of another state in europe. this too must be clarified.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too believe that the pipeline between germany and russia should only be built if the other eu member states concerned agree to it. but then these member states are not allowed to negotiate with another power, namely the united states, about missiles or visas. this europe will only have a strong position vis-à-vis the united states and russia if it finally acts in unison. i want to make it very clear that it is our job to tell the russians that it is in their existential interest to have a good partnership with us. but that means that they do not patronize other states just because they once occupied them, like ukraine or georgia, which are sovereign states, which have sovereign rights to decide their own destiny. if mr medvedev has said in berlin that he wants to improve relations, he can start with two things. firstly, the rule of law, which means, for example, doing something about the prisoners in the jukos. secondly, and this is very important, mr medvedev, please stop blocking the biggest peace mission in the history of the eu, the kosovo mission!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when mr swoboda spoke, i was reminded that in german, swoboda means freedom. it reminds me that we need freedom. human rights and freedom are the most important pillars of the eu, and we need them for the dialogue with russia as well. but because this next dialogue is taking place in siberia, it immediately occurred to me that chita is also in siberia and that the yukos prisoners platon lebedyev and mikhail khodorkovsky and others are imprisoned there. that's why i'm asking you to make sure they're released. but not only that, but in russia there is freedom of speech and press and ngos can work freely. all this is very important for our future as a whole.
the chairman of the council. − with regard to the organisation at eu level, i mentioned eunetpass, which is one of the recommendations made by the aforementioned patient safety working group, namely that eunetpass should be one of the pathways, which may be many, but one pathway to achieve patient safety. what's with the net? it is a network for the exchange of information, it supports patient safety recommendations in various ways, it is mainly a platform for cooperation and networking between member states and international organisations in the field of patient safety. this network develops a positive safety culture, introduces education and training for healthcare professionals, and introduces reporting mechanisms and case learning. but that is one way, of course, there are other ways, including the ones you mentioned.
the chairman of the council. - i would say that the community, as i believe mr posselt is aware, does not have the power to impose on the member states the obligation to introduce so-called same-sex marriages or registered partnerships into national law. the community can only adopt rules governing cooperation between the judicial authorities of the member states, for example rules on judgments recognised or enforced in one state but given in another state. the community may also adopt rules on the conflict-of-laws procedure in cases having cross-border elements. the existing community legislation is the brussels 2a regulation does not, however, concern the regulation of same-sex partnerships. as is well known, member states have very different legislative solutions regarding the rights and obligations arising from same-sex partnerships, and some do not have any legislation at all. given that the introduction of same-sex marriages or registered partnerships is not compulsory under the community legal order, it would be difficult for member states to reach consensus on amending existing rules to cover same-sex partnerships. i should also point out that the community does not have competence to regulate matters relating to abortion and euthanasia.
i thank the council for this important clarification, because the subject has also played a major role in ireland. i would just like to ask a short, clear supplementary question on croatia. is this also true for candidate countries, that they do not have to change their legislation on these issues, but they are still sovereign, because this is not an eu competence also in relation to candidate countries?
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, before i turn to the directive drawn up by mr liberadzki, i should like to thank parliament for its confidence in me as the european commissioner responsible for transport. i thank the few members who are here, but i too have often been absent from evening meetings. i thank you for your confidence in me, and i thank the members of the committee on transport in particular for their participation. i have to say, i'm a little excited. i am speaking for the first time, not changing my position much in this chamber - i have changed four seats - but it is certainly a great honour for me to be here and i think it is important for this parliament to have a european parliamentarian - because i always feel that way in my heart - sitting in the commissioners' chair. i am sorry, mr president, for this digression, but i thought it right, before i begin, to thank parliament once again for what it has given me over the years and for the confidence it has shown in me and confirmed this morning. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the house, i can only be very brief in this debate, unfortunately. at first reading, the amendments were adopted by the european parliament and confirmed by the council in its common position. the actual text, which allows for the proposal to be adopted at the second reading stage, does not propose any technical additions. the committee on transport and tourism has unanimously supported this and the commission is in full agreement with it. these clarifications of the second reading make it possible to fine-tune the proposal relating to the transport of dangerous goods. the texts are thus made more clear on these details, which i welcome. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank in particular mr liberadzki, the rapporteur, for the efficiency of his work on this proposal. i thank him for the confidence he has shown in me today and i hope to work with him and with all members from today until the end of the parliamentary term.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his work and also for his constant willingness to talk. the directive on the transport of dangerous goods contains international provisions on cross-border transport and extends its scope to national transport. it summarises four directives and four decisions and simplifies the rules. this is a welcome example of european legislation that actually reduces bureaucracy and upholds the principle of better regulation. the regulation on the transport of dangerous goods is important for transport. some 110 billion tonne-kilometres of dangerous goods are transported within the eu every year. the safe transport of these goods is essential for road safety and environmental reasons. the rules ensure a uniformly high level of safety in cross-border and national traffic. this has a positive impact on the internal transport market. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the same rules to all modes of transport, and that this should be done in a more flexible manner. multimodal transport operations are being promoted. i am particularly pleased to see the extension of the scope of application to inland waterway transport. the same safety rules will apply to all inland waterways in the community. this will lead to better working conditions on board and to greater safety during transport. at the same time, it will help to protect the environment and reduce costs. this should improve the application possibilities and market prospects for inland waterway transport. this in turn relieves the strain on the roads and thus helps to protect the environment. the council's common position, which was adopted by the committee on transport without amendments, contains two additions to the parliament's report, which was put to the vote at first reading. the first supplement contains a provision allowing member states to regulate the transport of dangerous goods within their territory for reasons other than those relating to the safety of transport. this provision is merely declaratory and is intended to clarify matters. we had some disagreements about it. the common position also provides for financial assistance by the commission to the member states for translations of the international conventions on the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway and, of course, for amendments thereto. i admit that i was critical of this supplement at first. the european commission, however, assured me that this was essential to ensure the quality of the translations and to ensure that the rules were properly applied. it is also cheaper. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are still discussing a subject which concerns the safety of citizens on the roads of europe. i think we should insist on this. i had a meeting with officials from my directorate-general this afternoon, precisely to highlight the commission's commitment and to increase the commission's commitment in the field of road safety. the figures for the last few months are unfortunately not encouraging and risk jeopardising the objective we have set ourselves of halving the number of road deaths. that's why we have to keep working. i am glad that we can conclude today, once again, legislation concerning road safety and therefore the safety of all european citizens. in the 2001 white paper on european transport policy, commissioned by mrs loyola de palacio, the commission proposed an ambitious target of halving the number of lives lost on the roads by 2010. this initiative was welcomed by parliament and has always been supported by parliament. i said that, unfortunately, the results have not been as positive as we would have liked, after a series of extremely positive data in recent years. and we are all aware, of course, that the vast majority of accidents are mainly due to human error or carelessness. however, road conditions, combined with increasing traffic volumes, also often play a decisive role in causing accidents. it has been shown that the condition of the road infrastructure plays a decisive role in one in three accidents. for this reason, in addition to initiatives aimed at improving user behaviour and the level of vehicle safety, infrastructure should be the third pillar of any road safety programme based on the principle of the integrated approach. the proposal for a directive on the safety management of road infrastructure offers a good mix of preventive and corrective measures. the procedures introduced by the directive aim to ensure the integration of safety at all stages of planning, design, construction, as well as the management and operation of the road infrastructure. the directive is certainly not intended to teach civil engineers how to build roads and it is certainly not an incentive to build new roads. it is rather a tool which aims to extend to all member states procedures which are already in use, sometimes in different ways. the added value of action at european level is to generalise and disseminate these best practices to member states that do not yet apply them. mr markov and his colleagues in the committee on transport have worked hard on the proposal and have helped to improve its outcome. the text of the proposal has been amended as it has passed through the institutions. many administrative and information requirements have been removed in order to alleviate the bureaucratic burden of the proposal. the annexes, which list the elements to be considered for the procedures introduced by the directive, have been made non-compulsory. some definitions have been revised to make them consistent with existing practices in some member states. however, the main elements of the initial proposal remain unchanged and the present text is therefore acceptable to the commission. once adopted, the directive will be the first european union instrument directed at road infrastructure as a whole and will be a particularly important and powerful instrument. i would remind you once again that this directive, if applied to the transeuropean network, will save more than 600 lives and prevent some 7,000 accidents every year. it is clear that the directive will also have a significant social and economic impact. it will start a long process. the aim is to change the cultural approach to safety in the design, construction and maintenance of roads. in this sense, it is a directive which looks to the future and which can be valid for the next 50 years. thank you again, mr. markov, for the work you've done, and thank you again for your attention.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. after more than a year and a half of negotiations, all the political groups in the parliament, the council and the commission have finally been able to agree on a compromise for a directive on the management of road safety infrastructure in the eu. the most important point of this agreement is that all parties involved recognise that road infrastructure safety is a fundamental cornerstone of improving safety on europe's roads. in addition to the fundamental objective of shifting traffic from road to rail, driver behaviour and vehicle safety as well as compliance with social rules are of course crucial components in transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all the measures which they adopt in the field of transport. this is actually incomprehensible, because since when do roads stop at national borders? shouldn't all drivers on these roads be able to be sure that they're driving on good roads? in spite of these arguments, the committee on transport and tourism had rejected the commission's original proposal, with reference to the subsidiarity rights of the member states, by a very narrow majority of one vote. there are differences of opinion in both the council and parliament on how far-reaching and binding a common directive should be. it was therefore necessary to seek compromises going back beyond the original commission proposal and also beyond my first draft report. i would have preferred to have set up uniform, binding, but of course not exclusive criteria for how roads in the eu, and not just the transeuropean networks, should be planned, built, regulated, regularly checked for safety aspects and, if necessary, improved. i thought the same thing about the analysis of the hazard situation. the present proposal is unfortunately only - but at least - a very first step in the safe direction. it is hoped that member states will have a good experience with these recommendations and may wish to adopt a more uniform approach themselves at a later stage. the report's recitals in particular indicate that this will be a test phase, which does not exclude closer cooperation in the future. the main points of the report. firstly, safety is taken into account at all stages of road design, construction and operation. secondly, particularly high accident frequency sections should be subjected to particularly intensive checks and drivers should be warned accordingly. in addition, similar signs are also being sought at construction sites to ensure that they are clearly visible both during the day and at night. thirdly, independent, appropriately trained and regularly trained staff are essential in planning and auditing. there is no obligation to harmonise training in detail across the member states, but the compatibility of training and training content should be taken into account. fourthly, member states which already have a comprehensive safety management system may also continue to use their system if the result can be satisfactory. fifthly, the directive also provides many useful examples of methods and criteria which can be applied to safety tests and hazard and accident analyses. it reiterates the need for sufficient and safe parking places. sixthly, and finally, it is pointed out that in order to continuously improve road safety, new technical possibilities should be found and applied. the commission is in a position to promote the exchange of best practice on safety management on roads outside the tens built with european funds. the compromise ensures that parliament is adequately involved in any major changes and developments to the provisions of the directive. the compromise reached, which will be voted on as block i, should be approved by this house. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and my colleagues from the commission and the council very much for their close cooperation, even though it has not always been easy with me, and i hope that this directive will go in the right direction.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would like to congratulate you on your new position. congratulations and good luck! i also wish to add that i hope that in future we will not be able to bring any more nonsensical bills from your house to the table. a year ago, in the committee on transport, we rejected the commission's proposal on safety management for road infrastructure because we felt it was too bureaucratic and had no added value. i still believe that the directive is superfluous and does not add any value. the road infrastructure in the member states is very different and we should really only support those member states that need to catch up, but we do not need a directive for all. instead of a directive, it is better to adopt guidelines based on existing good practice in the member states. i would therefore prefer to see us rejecting the directive altogether, but we do not have a political majority in this house to do so, and the council too wants to stick to a deconstructed system. that is why we have now reached a compromise on the basis of the report from the committee on transport. this compromise mainly contains minor changes such as linguistic improvements and amendments to the annexes which give more specific details of the safety management procedures. road safety is of course an important issue for us, but much has already been done at eu level to improve road safety, for example in terms of driving and rest times, additional mirrors for lorries, tunnel safety, etc. these are areas where regulation at eu level makes sense. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of road transport is not compromised. however, this is not the case for road infrastructure, because of the principle of subsidiarity. but now that we have weakened the commission's proposal considerably, i can also agree with it, despite the objections i have mentioned. the directive now only requires member states to introduce four procedures for the safety management of road infrastructure. this concerns only roads on the transeuropean network and, because of the non-binding nature of the annexes, the member states have the discretion to define the necessary procedures. this gives member states sufficient scope to maintain some of their well-functioning procedures. so there are no new obligations for those who already have good management. we have also removed the extensive reporting obligations envisaged by the commission and finally we have prevented the extension of the scope of the regulation to motorways, as requested by the rapporteur. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the scheme is now essentially a set of guidelines in the guise of a directive. it's also the first time i've experienced this. but this is the result that my group has been calling for from the beginning, and we can agree with that. i would like to conclude by making a comment on amendment no 70. i ask that the english version be used as a basis. at least the german version is flawed, and the other language versions probably need to be checked as well.
i'm not going to tell you. i congratulate you and wish you many good decisions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. what distinguishes a racing driver from a normal car, two-wheeler, truck or bus driver? he walks the track to get a picture of its quality before he rides it. we cannot do that with the vast network of transeuropean networks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of the roads is maintained. this is why infrastructure management is a european issue. the improvement of road safety has a horizontal dimension, as this house has repeatedly confirmed. it requires an integrated approach to the enforcement of existing and new legislative measures and the transfer of best practice. drivers, vehicles and infrastructure all have an impact on road safety. we're not starting from scratch. countries that already have methods and strategies for infrastructure security management must be allowed to maintain them. the preservation and expansion of transport infrastructure is as much a matter of the future as research, education and employment. but now for a detail. i am particularly concerned to highlight the improvement of the truck parking situation across europe as an integral part of safety management. while many other workers have breakfast with their families in the morning and go home at 5 p.m., professional drivers are on the road day and night for weeks on end. they are poorly provided with medical care and accept separation from home as well as the most varied hygienic conditions for personal care, left and right of the ten. the latter, unlike many other people, are expensive to pay for. they are also forced to pay a high price if they cannot find a parking space to comply with the european legal rest periods. that is why we need the infrastructure directive.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to respond to the comments made by many members during this debate and the fact that so many members are taking part, despite the late hour, means that the subject is of extraordinary importance and that we all consider it a priority. i would like to thank mr markov for his work. it has certainly not been easy, but a good politician must know how to use the art of mediation. i think mr markov has used it and has achieved a result which the commission certainly shares. as regards the commission proposals referred to by mrs sommer, i believe that in my keynote speech at the hearing the other night i stressed the importance of the commission's commitment, but also that of parliament, to the sensitive subject of road safety. i want to make this a priority, even though it is not the commission's exclusive responsibility, but i believe that our consciences as fathers of families require us to be part of a great initiative which will lead us to reduce seriously the number of deaths on the roads. that is why i want to turn the meeting with young people in brussels on 10 july, which the commission has requested, not into a formal occasion but into an extraordinary event which can also have a media impact, inviting witnesses to speak about the risks that people take on the roads every day, especially our young people. i also reply to what mr matsakis said: i agree with you about the alcohol. alcohol and drugs are two of the things that endanger the lives of too many young people on the streets of europe. that is why i am inviting you to take part in the event in brussels on 10 july with the young people. we must send them a strong message so that they understand the risks they are taking, especially going out to nightclubs at night, going out to nightclubs on weekends. and then october 13th is road safety day in cities. in paris, but also in other european cities, the commission is making efforts, but let us make sure that, with the participation of members of parliament, these are not just useless catwalks, but days that convey positive messages to young people. if we can save even one human life, we will be worthy for the rest of our lives. that is why we must commit ourselves to this subject, which i consider a priority in the transport sector, a priority in my own commitment. the translation is perhaps easier when i speak french. i thank madame for telling me that she was very happy when i spoke french but i arrived in paris when i was six months old and i therefore began to speak french earlier than italian. i'm going to continue in italian. mrs lichtenberger said that men are certainly responsible, but in my speech i said that men are certainly primarily responsible, but how many badly constructed roads cause accidents? how often is it that a poorly constructed road is enough to cause the death of a person, perhaps at normal speed, simply because there are structural elements that are wrong? i agree with mr matsakis and i also welcome his technical advice on braking times and the use of the material to be put on the roads. we must give positive signals, positive messages. i do not think that we should talk about interference by the european union whenever a positive message is given. i am sorry that mr nattrass spoke and then left, because when questions are put it would also be appropriate to hear the answers from a commissioner who has made many choices, has been elected many times to the european parliament, and i assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that being elected to the european parliament under the italian system is much more difficult than it is in britain. but i didn't mean to be controversial, it was just a joke, let's hope mr. nattrass hears from his office. but perhaps you have not read the legislative text we are discussing tonight carefully enough. because the legislative text we are discussing this evening does not impose anything on britain and it does not impose anything on germany because the procedures of the directive are inspired by the british and german systems. so i think that by carefully re-reading the text mr nattrass can correct his position. as regards the request made by mrs ticău, mr kuc and mrs ayala sender for safe parking, i fully agree with them. i also referred to this in my speech in which i asked for the confidence of the committee on transport. i intend to go on, also because the results are certainly positive. many members of parliament, including those from the new member states, have asked me to intervene, especially at the russian border, because there are criminal acts against lorries. so i think we should also intervene there and go ahead with the pilot initiative that the commission has started. so, as far as i am concerned, the commitment is to move forward in this area. in conclusion, i must say that the best is often the enemy of the good and when we do have a legislative text which may perhaps arouse reservations, but which is nevertheless shared, we can consider ourselves satisfied. i thank mr. markov again. the directive is certainly a fair compromise, perhaps some people would prefer a regulation, but the member states which have already put in place the procedures we are talking about will not be forced to change them - i repeat - while it will be the member states lacking experience in this field which will be able to take advantage of the exchange of good practice allowed by the directive, which, to date, is insufficient. in addition, the results of the research projects are and will be available to the member states to enable them to implement the directive properly. mr markov, i would like to conclude by thanking you once again for your patience and your ability to mediate. you're obviously a good politician. i thank you and i thank the president.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank all my colleagues again for the debate. at least two things have become clear. first, road safety is a matter of concern to everyone. secondly, how far we can take this to the european level - there are very different views on this. i was naturally pleased that other colleagues also called for the annexes to be binding. the fact is that i have unfortunately not been able to get the transport committee to accept that this directive should also be extended to roads outside the transeuropean network. it is now noted in a recital that this is possible. i hope, of course, that it will be used and that the commission will perhaps come forward with a new proposal at a later date, because i think that is necessary. so this is just the first small step. if you compare that to a human, not the step we can take, but the step of a six- or seven-month-old baby, feet by feet. i hope that this directive will bring about results quickly and that it will reduce the number of road deaths, because that is the main concern and we should all be faced with it. once again, thank you very much and congratulations on your election, commissioner.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs zita gurmai, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on safer, cleaner and more efficient mobility across europe: first report on the intelligent vehicle initiative (2007/2259 (ini)) (a6-0169/2008).
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr gurmai, although i am replacing commissioner reding who is responsible for today's debate, i consider this matter to be of the utmost importance because it is part of the strategy that the european commission and my department intend to pursue in the coming years, namely to reduce the number of deaths on the roads of the european union. we have a duty to regard this initiative as a political priority, the citizens are looking to us and above all the young people are looking to us for answers, advice, suggestions and ideas so that they can move about the streets of the european union without risking their lives. that is why today's debate, like last night's, is of extraordinary importance, as are the events that the european commission is organizing. on 10 october there will be an initiative in brussels for young people to discuss road safety, there will be a series of initiatives during the french presidency on road safety, the most important of which will be in paris on 13 october, but there will also be events in other european cities to raise awareness in this area and especially to raise awareness among young people. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank the whole house and the rapporteur for her excellent and comprehensive report on today's debate. i am particularly pleased to see that your text recognises the great potential of the technologies and systems promoted by the 'smart car' initiative. parliament's support is crucial in bringing these systems to road users. the citizen has been the focal point, the objective of this initiative, from the very beginning. the citizen, as a road user, is faced with increasingly difficult choices in terms of mobility and messages from the public and private sectors can sometimes be confusing or even contradictory. i therefore welcome parliament's call for further measures such as incentives, driver training and user information campaigns to ensure that safer and greener vehicles can gain a foothold on the market. it is very encouraging, especially for me who have been a member of this parliament for many years, to see that the house recognises ecall as one of the key priorities of the smart car initiative. we have made a lot of progress with ecall and the commission will present a new communication to parliament and the council at the end of this year setting out the final steps for the implementation of ecall. i am also grateful to parliament for its support of our efforts to identify the best way to achieve energy efficiency and co2 reduction through smart technologies and for guiding us in any measures to be taken. however, this sector is only at the beginning, the regulation on co2 emission reduction targets must be implemented, for example, and i am thinking of further measures in the transport sector based mainly on an integrated approach. parliament's support in this regard will be essential.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the road safety potential should be experienced by citizens in two ways. i therefore call, in connection with the report under discussion today, for greater prevention and education on the safety benefits of driver assistance systems. most people lack any practical experience with these systems, so they cannot understand that firstly, driver assistance systems have an undeniable safety potential - after all, around 80% of all accidents are caused by human error - secondly, they make driving more comfortable, thirdly, they support and relieve the driver without relieving him of responsibility, and fourthly, they promote economical and ecological driving behaviour. modern driver assistance systems, according to recent studies, could prevent up to one third of serious accidents if they were used in all areas. systems such as the acc cruise control, the lane assistant and the esp have good technical status and a high degree of reliability. however, they must also be subject to regular technical surveillance and functional inspection after major accident repairs. intelligent vehicle systems help to avoid risky situations in the first place and, by relieving the driver, allow a relaxed and predictive driving style. unfortunately, these systems are still not standard equipment. despite vision zero, there will still be road accidents in the future. by the end of 2010, all new vehicles should be equipped with the icol satellite-based emergency call system, so that professional help can be provided in what doctors call the 'golden hour' after an accident. the european emergency number 112 is used to provide rapid and accurate information to emergency services. but until the emergency services arrive, each of us should be able to provide first aid. in modern cockpits, however, there is also the danger of overflooding. the increasing complexity of everyday functions such as ventilation, radio, navigation systems, combined with acoustic and optical signals from assistance systems such as parking aids, shock absorber controls, alcohol or overload locks or other, can distract or even overwhelm the driver. the problem of the necessary penetration of the vehicle fleet remains, in all probability. this is primarily a question of affordability. instead of decreasing, the average age of our fleet is increasing. vehicles must remain affordable. we're responsible for that, too. finally, a big thank you to mrs gurmai for her excellent work.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the attempts of the military junta in burma to isolate the country and its people from the rest of the world continue. in september 2007, after the bloody suppression of a protest by buddhist monks, there was a media blackout. last month, international organizations were prevented from helping the victims of the cyclone. it was only late, too late for many, that they were able to reach people in need. now there are other, but equally alarming, news, such as the arrest of cyclone victims who asked for help from un offices. in addition, law enforcement officers were deployed, and prisoners were seriously injured or shot while trying to escape from a prison destroyed by nargis. the eu has not looked away. it imposed a trade embargo, but so far it has not had sufficient effect. it threatened tougher sanctions if the human rights situation did not improve. but burma has not moved an inch. we must not let up in our demands. the political prisoners must be released. the decades-long house arrest of aung san suu kyi must be lifted. the courageous commitment of this nobel peace prize winner is an abomination to any dictator. burma must finally be held accountable for the way it is dealing with its own citizens, many of whom are still missing. the first step is to establish a dialogue with the un special rapporteur by assuring him that he can visit the country. the asean countries should also use their influence to bring the junta to its senses. the pressure on china, which is probably still the only supporter of burma, must also be increased. the council and eu member states must, if necessary, increase the sanctions. commissioner, we are really looking forward to your activities. the burmese people need our solidarity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. hardly any resolution in this house has ever had a more cruel title - at least in german - than 'routine killing of civilians'. we cannot react to this by routine, ladies and gentlemen, but only by full commitment. one-eighth of the population has been displaced in the last 12 months, and by the end of the year, half of the civilian population could be dependent on humanitarian aid. i am grateful to mr dess and others for the food aid and medical aid that is being given there, but we must now also move towards a political solution, which has not been possible since 1991. here are the only options i see: the un force must be stationed, but it must be supplemented by appropriate civilian structures. the question we must ask ourselves in the case of the transitional government is: transition to what? the european union has a duty to help the people of europe to find a way to live in peace and security. if we fail to do so, we shall end up having to subject the entire population to humanitarian aid. this cannot be the solution to murder, rape and hunger.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on tuesday 24 june 2008.
i am not going to go into detail. in response to many requests, i would like to make a brief statement on the release of ingrid betancourt and other prisoners. the commission has also been informed that the united kingdom has not yet notified the commission of its intention to grant aid to the united kingdom for the construction of the new nuclear power station at algiers. on wednesday, july 2, 2008, they were finally released thanks to a successful military operation by the colombian army. the european parliament is pleased with ingrid betancourt and all the others who have been released, and with their families. liberation means the end of a painful time. liberation is a signal that you must never give up hope. i spoke to president uribe last thursday and congratulated the colombian people, its government and its army on this successful operation. i would like to stress once again that democracy must never give in to terrorism and that it is a political and moral obligation to enforce the law. efforts to free all hostages must continue unabated. ingrid betancourt was abducted on february 23, 2002. since then, the european parliament has repeatedly taken part in initiatives aimed at their release. in 2006, she was one of the three candidates for the sakharov prize for freedom of expression, together with the país libre foundation. i am not going to go into detail. the european parliament considers that ingrid betancourt's commitment has been and remains fundamental to lasting peace in colombia. it is now our duty to draw attention to the tragic situation of the hostages still being held in colombia and to work for their release. i invited ingrid betancourt to visit the european parliament last week at a time convenient for her and after she has recovered. i would like to make a strong appeal to the farc and all other terrorist organizations to lay down their arms and to abandon the irrational and senseless violence. we will never submit to terrorism! i call for the release of all hostages and for the acceptance of the colombian government's offer to seek a peaceful settlement together. (applause from the centre) * * * dear colleagues! i would like to welcome to the house the french minister for europe and representative of the new presidency, mr jean-pierre jouyet. it is a novelty that the head of a government is present at the very beginning of our work. you are welcome. i hope that we can then continue our work, which has already started out so well. (applause from the centre)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 3 june 2008, pursuant to rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday/tuesday/wednesday: no change. thursday: the socialist group has asked for the first sub-item in the afternoon's human rights debate on the alleged existence of mass graves in indian-administered kashmir to be removed from the agenda. i call mr schulz, president of the group of the european people's party, to explain the reasons for the motion.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i have already tried to convince my colleagues in the conference of presidents that this item of debate is really inappropriate at the present time. this is a conjecture put forward by amnesty international. there is so far, according to amnesty international itself, a presumption but no concrete evidence of the existence of these mass graves. the chairman of the subcommittee on human rights of our house, collegien flautre, has done something very clever. it has invited amnesty representatives to the committee on 16 july to examine and clarify the reservations made there. we therefore think it is very sensible to wait for this hearing and then decide what to do with this item. i would also like to point out that the region is not just any region in the world, but a region in which we as the european parliament, as an organ of international politics, must also act with absolute care and not take decisions based on any assumptions that might lead to the opposite of what we actually intend, namely to achieve more stability in this region. we therefore ask that this item be removed from the agenda.
mr president, how can i ask for a vote by name on a motion which i have just tabled?
mr schulz, you are right. of course, if you're planning something, word spreads quickly. so i assume everyone quickly took notice. but i think that if the motion is here, i must put it to the vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that is absolutely impossible from a point of view of the rules of procedure. my group decided about 25 minutes ago to ask me to put this motion to the vote. i therefore consider it quite impossible that a request for a roll-call vote on my motion has been received in the meantime. if it has been received, it has not been submitted in due time, and then it is at your discretion to reject it.
mr schulz, you are right. i have been informed that this request was submitted an hour before. i'm guessing that was done prophylactically. i can only say this as a conjecture, mr schulz. why is it such a big problem? you have your convictions, others have their convictions. let's just write it down. i am informed that an hour ago - and i am therefore on time - a request was made that this matter be put to the vote by name when the decision is taken. (interruption of the debate) everyone can bring his documents or not, that is up to each individual's freedom of choice.
mr president, i ask that the sitting be adjourned for two minutes until all members have obtained their voting cards.
we're gonna take a short break, then everyone can get their tickets. (the sitting was suspended for a few minutes.)
mr lambrinidis, there is a certain procedure for distributing the minutes. it is not unusual on thursdays, and it is up to your group to allocate speaking time as your group intends. everything else goes to d'hondt, and thursday is nothing but the usual.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
mr rogalski, we were pleased to hear that your president had announced that ratification would take place in poland. it is also what the parliaments have decided.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the location of the eu-russia summit was not chosen at random. khanty-mansiysk is the center of russian oil production. russia is putting the emphasis on the economy in the new partnership and cooperation agreement. the eu believes that human rights must be given greater prominence. alexander lebedev and mikhail khodorkovsky are still in prison under dmitri medvedev. both have been facing new charges for a week, with possible prison sentences of up to twenty years. we're playing for time until medvedev has a clear position. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the eu must act as one in the future and speak with one voice to moscow in order to build up political pressure. the credibility of the eu is at stake.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. what should and could the european union budget look like in 2009? we have been talking about this since the beginning of the year and now we are about to take the second step of the european parliament in this year's budgetary procedure, which is a little different from that of previous years. this is due to the fact that we wanted to prepare ourselves a little for the changed procedure under the reform treaty. following the resolution on the budgetary framework and priorities for 2009 adopted in april, we now have our resolution 'initial reflections on the preliminary draft budget for 2009 and the mandate for conciliation'. the resolution was adopted unanimously by the committee on budgets and i very much hope that the plenary will reach the same unanimous decision, especially since the recommendations and proposals of the committees have been incorporated in this resolution. what are we talking about? the title is program. we are evaluating what the commission has presented to us as a preliminary draft budget and we find much to criticize. we do not see that the draft is in keeping with budgetary truth and clarity, that it is sufficiently transparent. we know that the commission too is caught up in the too tightly tailored outfit of the medium-term financial framework. but that does not justify creating available margins through creative budgetary management. but we have such creations as the back-loading of multiannual programmes, the failure to take account of the known and clearly identifiable financing needs or the failure to budget the guarantee fund, which is estimated at eur 200 million a year. we do not see the commission's priorities in the preliminary draft reflecting the political priorities it has itself formulated in its annual strategic plan. in doing so, parliament has strongly supported these priorities as they stand: combating climate change, promoting competitiveness for growth and jobs in close connection with the promotion of a sustainable europe and, of course, the implementation of a common immigration policy. above all, we need a greater commitment to combating climate change. the commission claims that the budget does not include the full amount of eur 14 billion for the environment. but if you look closely, you see that of these 13,842 billion euros, 13 billion are already in the rural development, cohesion and regional funds. so there's still work to be done. we must also do more in the area of competitiveness, and especially for small and mediumsized enterprises, but especially for small ones. the first step is done with the small business act. we should have a special sme facility in the 2009 budget for those smes that have to file their externalities first. laws that say that the thirty-day limit cannot be exceeded are fine, are fine and good, but how are smes supposed to implement them? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not want to talk about the insufficiently budgeted needs for food aid, food security, for kosovo, for palestine, for afghanistan, yes, for the whole of category 4. my colleagues will do that. i am not sure that the council is going to be able to do that, but i am sure that the council will be able to do that. we want to implement the european priorities, and that requires a proper budget. our european budget is also nothing but politics in figures. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already done so. the haug report is a very early presentation of our initial thoughts on the preliminary draft budget, and we are simultaneously giving a plenary mandate for the conciliation on 17 july. of course, without the reform treaty, first of all, important elements of a forward-looking community policy are missing, but even without the treaty there is much that amounts to a necessary revision of the preliminary draft budget: obvious deficits, particularly in foreign and security policy, in category 4, the eu as a global partner, but also on the basis of the expected results of the g8 summit and at the same time taking into account the conclusions of the european council of 19/20 june. in fact, in at least 13 paragraphs, the european council has actually presented an intensive programme for a revision of the multiannual financial planning: further development of frontex, europol, strengthening of eurojust, disaster management measures, pilot projects for second-generation biofuels and clean coal technology, funds for agriculture in developing countries, food security and stabilisation, increase of official development aid to 0.7 of gdp by 2015, trade aid for developing countries, immigration policy, new financial resources to deal with climate change. i am very much looking forward to seeing how the finance ministers, with whom we are negotiating, will tackle this innovation programme of the heads of state and government and with what figures and proposals they will accompany these political conclusions of the heads of state and government. i would like to focus on two complementary elements. i expressly support the broad lines which the rapporteur has put forward here through intensive cooperation, including with the specialised committees. if the commission now intends to put forward agricultural savings for a new programme for farmers in developing countries, then the question of where this comes from is open to debate. but it is not possible to simply smuggle such a project into category 2 by creating a new legal basis! if you want to finance it in this way, in compliance with the commitments made, then this is a revision of the financial perspective and falls into category 4. secondly, simply giving these funds to the united nations or even the world bank, without having access to the internal audits, without having some guarantees as to the correct political priorities, is a course of action that we will have a lot of discussion about. it's not that easy, given the experience. we know, of course, that we have already spent three times as much on palestine in 2008 as in the preliminary draft budget for 2009, and the old system of financing the common foreign and security policy and new priorities at the expense of the developing countries in category 4 is no longer acceptable in the face of new challenges and political decisions, and we will not accept it.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you for all the kind words, for appreciating my work, and of course for your support. but you know as well as i do that this work can only be done and done properly if all the colleagues in this place participate. only then will we be strong enough in the face of the council to be able to push through the things we really want to push through. i particularly liked the picture that lászló surján drew of the commissioner and myself, in which he spoke of us as two cogs that interlock. so i find this appealing because something moves when two gears intersect. that's exactly what we want! we want to make a difference, we do not want a static budget, and above all we want to make a difference in the council. the heads of state and government can of course - as the president said - say all kinds of great things in their communiqué at their summits, but in the end the commission and parliament must together make the whole story. of course the council is involved as one arm of the budgetary authority, but most of the time i have the impression that in this movement we always have to involve the council and it does not give the whole thing a drive of its own. we have analysed the preliminary draft budget again at an early stage - before the summer break - and have now expressed our views to each other and clearly worked out what we want from the budget of the european union for next year. this will provide a good basis for us to prepare for our first reading after the summer break. i hope that all colleagues will support this as they have done today.
a writer. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the trade dispute between the european union and the united states over large aircraft is not a controversy like others which are brought before the wto for consideration. it is by far the largest and most complex procedure ever opened. this is a huge conflict of interest. the us has criticised the way in which the eu and the member states participating in the eads consortium have subsidised the introduction of new large aircraft over the past twenty years. the eu, for its part, has accused the us of covert aid received by boeing in connection with defence and space projects in which it is involved. we do not yet know what the outcome of the wto dispute settlement procedure will be. i assume the verdict will be that both parties will be held liable for violations of applicable wto rules. regardless of the outcome of the procedure, some recommendations can still be made. first, perhaps it is time for both companies to rely much more on their own resources rather than relying on massive state aid, to be able to generate support and profit as companies, but to take risks as a company. better functioning and more transparency in the aviation sector would certainly benefit all sectors concerned and customers. this does not mean that the large aircraft manufacturers should not receive any more financial support. i simply want to emphasise the need for a balanced and appropriate system that does not favour the interests of large companies but also takes into account other important issues such as job creation and environmental protection, as well as improving passenger safety.secondly, it is significant in this respect that in 2007 thousands of airbus employees lost their jobs as a result of what i consider to have been an unnecessary restructuring after years of enormous profits for the european consortium. this is not an appropriate way of solving crises, especially since it was not the fault of the employees but the management that failed. thirdly, the existence of the wto dispute settlement panel is a significant development in the international trade regime, as it provides reliable guidance in the event of disagreements arising from different interpretations of the uruguay round agreement. we'll get a decision from him here, too. but is that a solution? fourthly, it is regrettable that the 1992 aircraft agreement was not sufficient to reach a negotiated solution rather than a court decision. fifthly, the aviation industry is facing new challenges. the economic crisis and the rise in oil prices have had such a profound impact on the air transport system as we have never seen before. a solution should be found quickly, and it may be time to think about cooperation instead of confrontation. sixthly, as regards public procurement, i personally think it would be more appropriate not to include this important sector of the economy fully in the wto system. public procurement is an important catalyst for economic development in almost all economies. in some strategically important areas of society, politics must also have some influence. seventh, it is time for the us and the eu to agree that measures for political control of economic developments must remain possible, including procurement and financial support. but it also requires mechanisms of transparency and democratic control to ensure that everyone is complying with the rules. eighthly, the boeing case shows us that a government should avoid entrenching itself behind the argument of alleged national defence interests in order to support its own national industry or rather the interests of some powerful lobby groups with which it is closely associated. ninthly, this controversy is not just a dispute between the eu and the usa. this is another case where those who would otherwise be great advocates of free trade are succumbing to national protectionist temptations out of self-interest. we should avoid both, because this does not lead to better conditions for our citizens, but only to discrimination and dumping.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we want to have a debate tonight for one reason only. the reason is that on the american side, both from boeing and from many of our colleagues in congress, the attacks on the northrop grumman and eads concessions are very violent and even go as far as personal attacks on individual member states. that is why we have a debate here and why we will have a resolution, which i am very grateful for, because we have been trying for a long time on the part of the committee to get this resolution through. the frustration is that northrop grumman/eads made a better offer, which the us air force then preferred over a boeing model in a public tender. it's the most natural thing in the world. we are dealing here with nato partners and not with states which do not cooperate on a regular basis. we have the transatlantic partnership that is invoked at every summit. europe buys four times as much from the us in the three areas mentioned, so we have a very intensive 'partnership' between us. there is absolutely no reason for frustration on the american side, and that is what we are trying to express here. we do not need to go into details again. i am very grateful to the commissioner and also to mr papastamkos, who have already done so. it is essentially a political protest which we should be making today and which, incidentally, is also influencing the wto debate on the american side, because there are constant references to it. it is not possible that the us air force is awarding a contract to a european consortium, among others, while at the same time a wto case is pending. in this respect, it is clear that there is a political link between the two debates, but the commissioner is absolutely right in stating that there is, of course, no link at all. i personally would like to thank the commission and the member states for their repeated efforts to set the record straight. i would also like to thank my colleagues in this house for finally allowing us to have this debate and to table the resolution. i hope that we will then find the appropriate response on the american side.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i am not saying that the commission should be unable to do so. there are three things we must remember: firstly, the arbitrary selection of individual groups of people for the collection of data is illegal, even under the italian constitution. secondly, it follows that measures to protect children, such as those of the roma, must be taken within the framework of the legislation in force in the european union and in the italian state. thirdly, mr frattini, the foreign minister, called me an hour ago to tell me that he wanted to convey to my group at least the message that mr maroni had met commissioner barrot in cannes. i know that there was a meeting here with mr deprez, the chairman of the committee responsible. the italian government has indicated by the telephone call of mr frattini and by the statements of mr maroni that it does not intend to take legislative measures which are in any way contrary to european legal standards. i therefore assume, commissioner špidla, that you will contact mr barrot after his return from cannes and would ask you to report to parliament immediately because i think that the italian government has clearly understood that the initiatives taken so far are not compatible with european legislation. if she now draws the right conclusions from this, i would welcome that. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank all the rapporteurs, in particular mrs drčar murko and mrs ayuso, for their good and trusting cooperation. the package on food additives will lead to uniform, harmonised rules for the use of additives throughout europe. the use of additives, enzymes and flavourings in foodstuffs will continue to provide a high level of consumer health protection. and that's a good thing! the package will adapt the current rules to technical and scientific developments in the field of food additives. where there is scientific evidence of health risks, limit values must be set to exclude any risk. but we must not allow hysteria and unfounded panic to take hold. there are food additives, such as the moisturizer konjac root or the beeswax separator, that have been used in food and beverage for centuries. certain stone fruit varieties, such as cherries, peaches and apricots, also naturally contain small amounts of hydrochloric acid. yet, for thousands of years, we have eaten these fruits without any problems. similarly, some herbs and spices naturally contain certain substances that, in high concentrations, can cause health problems. nevertheless, we have always used herbs and spices such as basil, tarragon, and nutmeg without any problems in preparing our food, but only in small, safe doses. i therefore welcome the compromise in the new flavour regulation. where it is safe, there are exceptions to the limits, but only if only fresh or dried herbs are used in food preparation. we are encouraging the use of natural products and natural ingredients to preserve recipes that have been around for thousands of years, such as the italian pesto sauce.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the rapporteur, mrs westlund, deserves our thanks. she was very dedicated and very cooperative in her work. i welcome that and that is why we can be satisfied with the result. the new regulation on food additives has, i think, achieved a satisfactory result both from the point of view of the manufacturer and from the point of view of the consumer. the current rules on food additives are almost 20 years old. the text has been simplified and adapted to new technological and scientific conditions by the transposition of new directives and two decisions into two regulations. it is a very good achievement that the positive list clearly states which substances can be used. i think that is a positive thing and i also agree that the comitology procedure is used when new substances have to be added. we should move quickly here. i am satisfied with the rules on products of genetically modified organisms. we need both authorization procedures, it is being examined, and i do not understand why the procedure should not be followed here, as some colleagues have said. i am sure that with regard to azo dyes - yes, the southampton study is out - we must also note that the food safety authority has developed a study, has published a preliminary finding, in which it says quite clearly: it is not that the southampton study is covered. it's not covered. we cannot go into hysterics and pretend that we have to act now because we are in a trial. the authorization procedure through the food authority is excellent, but what bothers me is that i would ask the commission to think about it. we are giving the food safety authority nine months to do the authorization or the risk analysis. the commission also needs nine months to carry out a risk management. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the opportunity to present a proposal to the council. it's not about bureaucratizing anymore. so, here we should think again, if it can not be faster.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i hope you will support the green group's proposals, because we want to ban azo dyes. the european consumer policy is characterized by safety, but also by the application of the precautionary principle. without a ban, the precautionary principle would be trampled underfoot. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. this is a sham of something that doesn't exist. i can once again urge you to take this alarming study seriously and to put into practice the precautionary principle which we have incorporated into european law. i can also remind you once again that we are currently working to close the labelling gap for animal-based gmo products and it would be absurd if we did not take the opportunity to close the labelling gap for genetically engineered additives. what we need is a truly comprehensive authorization, where the precautionary principle is strictly respected, but where there are also no gaps in labelling and consumers have the right to decide freely what they want to eat.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i would like to thank richard corbett first of all for producing these reports. it was clear from the beginning that this issue would not only be agreed upon, but that it would be highly controversial. but we must also take into account that this parliament has grown from 626 to 785 members and that it will very likely have 751 members when the new treaty enters into force. it is clear that we must also change the rules by which we work. we have a working group on the reform of the ep. there are many things in which parliament must move forward and not stand still as it did years ago. the status quo is always the easiest thing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its powers in the field of justice and home affairs. richard corbett has already said that we have one of the lowest thresholds of all national parliaments. you can, why not? but we can also say, as mr szájer has said, that we need somehow more coherence in this parliament. we have gone from a consultative assembly to a legislative body. we make laws for 500 million people. it takes a certain amount of coherence. i therefore want political groups in this parliament and not just technical groups, that is to say groups which are united only for the sake of money but which have nothing to do with each other politically. the proposal on the table to go from 20 to 30 would still have been moderate and not excessive. well, it didn't go through the committee, and you have to be willing to compromise. if the proposal is now 25 then that is progress and the least that can be accepted as the next step. we have ten political families that have registered - from the far right to the far left. the citizens will have a wide range of political families of their choice at the next european elections to say what kind of europe they want. that is why i have no doubt that we will make this reform. the diversity of this parliament will remain. but maybe we're doing a little bit of a contribution to improve coherence, and that's the point of the exercise. thanks to richard corbett.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, a reformed parliament that promotes a livelier political debate on the eu is in the interests of all our citizens and also all the institutions. we need a more dynamic discussion on european affairs and i belong to those deeply convinced that debate is the lifeblood of any functioning democracy. on behalf of the commission, i would like to congratulate mr corbett on his report concerning the work of the plenary and the presentation of written questions. over the years there have been an increasing number of parliamentary questions. in 2007, over 6 700 questions were answered by the commission. that represents an increase of 12% compared to 2006 and almost 35% compared to 2005, and the trend so far this year suggests a further increase. the surge in questions has at the same time meant a real challenge: almost 25% of the total number of written questions have been put by no more than eight members of parliament. furthermore, quite a large number of questions are not related to issues falling under community competence. i can give you some examples if you like. the commission is absolutely committed to fulfilling its responsibility and providing high-quality responses to parliamentary questions. it is a duty that flows from the treaties; it is also a central feature of our accountability to the parliament. the commission welcomes the introduction of some guidelines and admissibility criteria for written parliamentary questions as proposed in the report. a system of guidelines is currently in place for oral questions addressed to the commission and to the council and the corbett report suggests a method which is already implemented by parliament and well known by the council and commission. the effective implementation of these guidelines will strengthen the opportunity for individual members to address questions to the commission and receive timely responses, as has already been explained by the rapporteur. we will be able to focus on questions that address issues really related to the commission competence or of general interest. let me comment on another issue addressed in the report, and that is the order of speeches in plenary debates. the commission recognises the logic and the opportunity of opening legislative debates with a statement from the rapporteurs. when it comes to the order of speeches and speaking time i would, however, like to stress the need to keep the principle of equal treatment of commission and council. as a last word, let me recall that we recently expressed our position on the second interim report adopted by the working party on parliamentary reform and we are looking forward to having the opportunity to discuss these issues with parliament before your institution adopts the final position on the reform package. i am confident that the spirit of good interinstitutional cooperation that both institutions have demonstrated so far will continue throughout the whole reform process.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we are a parliament of 27 countries and peoples and there are many pressing issues both within the eu and in our relations with other parts of the world. but i also agree with the comments that this parliament has become more and more of a legislative body rather than a consultative one. the lisbon treaty will take this a step further. so we have to prioritize. when i hear that we only spend 17.4% on legislative work, that is effectively too little. we are under pressure, we are under time pressure, we want to make better legislation and we need more time and more priorities in this area. it's also good that we now say: not every report has to be discussed again in plenary. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it does not have to be done orally in plenary. i think it is right, madam vice-president, that here in parliament the rapporteur has both the first and the last word, because we have to express ourselves here, as a chamber of citizens, at the beginning and at the end of a debate. that's a good innovation. finally, as regards the questions: everything is fine until it is abused. we hear the figures here that eight members make 25% of all requests. so that's almost 1,700 requests from eight colleagues. now, you can say that they are very diligent, but it does smell like the eu system is being abused in a criminal way by the opponents of the eu, as in many other cases. we have to have a rule, and the guidelines are a benchmark, a framework, for us to work within. i would like to congratulate richard corbett on his continuing work to develop this parliament. thank you, thank you.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i feel the same way as my colleague duff. unlike the previous report, i would like to point out that we can support the report as a whole as a group because the report reflects the proposals made by the working group on parliamentary reform and implements them as an amendment to the rules of procedure. i would like to make a brief point about what we cannot support, namely the proposal that no more amendments be allowed in own-initiative reports. in my group we believe that amendments are very much part of the political culture, part of the political debate and, above all, part of the right of the various groups, and that right of the groups should not be curtailed. in conclusion, i would like to say that i support motions 13 and 15 by the greens and the liberals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but to abstain from debate altogether is not doing ourselves any favour, because we are not taking ourselves seriously if we do not allow debates. i don't like that either.
the commission has already done so. i have signed up for mr leinen's speech. mr leinen, if you will listen for a moment, it is about the comments on the own-initiative report. the quality of the own-initiative reports which are tabled and then adopted is open to debate. but if you are not going to accept the amendments now, how can an own-initiative report be improved? i would remind you that we as a parliament do not have the right of initiative to legislate. we are dependent on the commission for this. how can we tell the commission what we would like to see in initiatives if we cut the owninitiative reports or if we do not put them in a direction which improves the situation? i think that even under the treaty, or what was once called the constitution, we do not have the right of initiative in the legislative field. so we are left with the will to vote in the owninitiative report. i'm sorry if you're dismissing this as a chance we're taking away. i think that you should reconsider this, both the rapporteur and you, mr leinen.
all right, we'll look into it, mr. schlyter.
the next item is the report by mr marcin libicki, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the environmental impact of the planned baltic sea pipeline between russia and germany (petitions 0614/2007 and 0952/2007) [2007/2118 (ini) ] (a6-0225/2008).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. of course, the construction of pipelines - whether oil or gas pipelines - has an impact on the environment, and it does not matter whether this pipeline runs through the north sea from ekofisk to emden, as it does today, or whether it runs from russia through poland to germany, as it does today. environmental impact assessments have to be made, planning assessments have to be made. it's an international issue. we have the espoo convention, and that means that the countries concerned, through whose territory the pipeline passes, have the responsibility to check whether the construction can be done there or not. i have confidence in these countries and i have confidence that this convention will be respected, and only then can you have the debate about whether there is a possible alternative that goes there or goes there. what we are doing now sometimes looks very much like political bias to me. because we have political clout, we have to put the pipeline down there. we would thus be abolishing the environmental impact assessment. i would ask you to let the countries and their authorities decide whether or not the environmental requirements are being properly met. it is our duty as europeans to say that we trust the member states concerned.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is of course in the interest of all eu citizens, and in particular of the baltic sea countries, that there should be no danger to the environment. but once all environmental concerns are addressed, the baltic sea pipeline should be no more obstacle, as the eu depends on diversifying both energy sources and energy transport routes. the eu will have to import an additional 200 billion cubic metres of gas every year from 2015. to secure our energy supply in the future, each pipeline is important to the eu: the baltic sea pipeline is a complementary energy route and should not be seen as a competitor to other projects. political arguments must not be contrary to the eu's economic interests. the differences between eastern and western european member states should have been settled in advance. in future, a mr eu-energy could take over this task. coordination, transparency and information could prevent any misunderstanding in advance. this debate has once again demonstrated the need for a coordinated common eu foreign policy.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the bloodiest attack since 2001, more than 40 afghans and indians were killed and 140 wounded in kabul yesterday. we extend our deepest sympathy to them and our outrage to the murderers. anyone who follows not only the european media, but also, for example, today's edition of the daily outlook afghanistan, knows that violence in afghanistan is much more widespread and commonplace. teachers are being shot almost every day - one of the most cynical aspects of the taliban's strategy. schools, especially girls' schools, are burned or forced to close, bridges and roads are blown up. nor was europe's coverage of the attack by us-led coalition forces on a wedding party in nangarhar province on sunday, which killed 23 people, including the bride. a similar case occurred in the neighboring province of urusgan. a few hours earlier, president karsai had ordered an investigation. it's clear that security in afghanistan has deteriorated over the last three years. many other very positive aspects are to be taken into account: the progress in education and health policy, regional successes in reconstruction and in the fight against drug cultivation, the existence of critical and independent media, with wonderfully courageous journalists, a somewhat vibrant civil society and militant women's organisations. but there are also very negative aspects, such as the record-high national average of sleeping poppy cultivation and its increasing interconnection with the general economy, especially with the proliferation of crime and corruption and insurgent groups. the impact of the international food crisis on millions of afghans is dramatic. corruption reaches far into government circles and emanates from them. the rule of law is weak and has been compared to guantanamo or the us prison in bagram and has also been called into question by international politics. fundamentalist ideologies have clearly gained power in recent years, including in influential parts of the government and parliament, and threaten media freedom and, above all, the hopes of afghan girls and women for equal participation in society. the cruel and everyday domestic, family and local violence against women and girls is, for me anyway, the most pressing, the worst and the most ignored problem in our media. it pains me that for time reasons i cannot speak more clearly about this. afghanistan and its people deserve our full commitment. thirty years of war, more than one and a half million people have died, the international community is committed to full solidarity with afghanistan. this state and its society have been destroyed by the policies and occupation war of the soviet union, by the internal war of the mujahideen groups armed by the united states, pakistan, iran and other states, and by the dark rule of the taliban. our report gives a balanced and realistic picture. it recognises the significant achievements of afghans and identifies the shortcomings of afghan and international policy. it expresses our full support. it demonstrates our commitment to democracy and human rights, in particular the rights of afghan women and girls. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european parliament calls for a new strategy by the international community and the afghan government, focusing on the reconstruction of civil society. this is the line that the un envoy for afghanistan, kai eide, is calling for. it's very important, and i'm glad that our house has this signal. i would like to thank the colleagues from the other groups, the commission - madam commissioner, you have wonderful staff in kabul and brussels who are dealing with afghanistan - the council's special envoy, and many afghan and international ngos for the good cooperation. the more difficult it is for me to withdraw my name from the report, the more difficult it is for me to say that. i have failed to convince a majority that the problems of afghanistan cannot be solved militarily. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fact that the will of the majority in all european populations is also to be ignored is unacceptable for afghanistan as the events of the last few days show and is the wrong policy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are in a paradoxical situation. my group will recommend that everyone read the original report by andré brie so that they can understand the challenges we face in this country, afghanistan. what has happened is that a majority in the foreign affairs committee has simply changed and crossed out the steps that are so urgently needed. we can't just say, more military, everything goes on like this, everything is good. nothing is good! the attack yesterday showed that. we must review our military strategy, we must bring all initiatives together. that's what we were trying to do together. my group has tabled the amendments together with the socialist group to fight for this important asset now, andré. i say this with all the respect i have for your work over the last few years: we are here to argue about the right positions, and it is cowardly just because your group has fallen behind you for a differentiated position, which also said we need the military, but right, to just now put your head in and say you are withdrawing the name. that is not helping the afghan people or this parliament to develop a coherent strategy for afghanistan. i call on all of you: if you accept the amendments, we will live up to our responsibilities. the people we send, the police, the soldiers, but also the people we want to help, the afghan people.
i have to say, madam president, june was the bloodiest month for foreign soldiers since the end of the taliban regime in 2001. forty-eight foreign soldiers were killed, more than the number killed in iraq during that period. in total, more than 2 200 people have been killed in the violence in afghanistan since the beginning of the year. the situation in afghanistan is no longer one single conflict but a regional war with the potential to spread. the situation is more dramatic than it was in 2001. in view of this appalling situation, afghanistan must remain a top priority for europe. the presence of european forces and the eu civilian operation on the ground play a key role in this. after lengthy negotiations in committee, i support the outcome of our motion for a resolution, which contains many key elements such as the consistent training of the afghan security forces, the intensification of civilian reconstruction and the improved coordination of international aid.
president of the council. - madam president, mr rapporteur, madam commissioner, dear benita, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to once again welcome mr brie's report and congratulate him on the fact that there is a broad consensus on the need for both greater security in the broad sense and greater governance, and this at a particularly difficult time - as you all have stressed - for afghanistan. what i have learned from our discussions is that we are facing a very complex situation, where we must go beyond a single military solution. that we are facing an extremely difficult situation. you have said that the commitment will be long-term, that it is necessary within the international community and that it is absolutely decisive for the european union, and that there is a long way to go to consolidate hope. that we must focus, particularly in terms of governance, as the commission has stressed, on preparing for the next elections. and the council will naturally continue to monitor very closely the preparations for these elections. in the case of governance, there is no division between respect for the rule of law and respect for our traditions. we also have to tell the afghan authorities. as regards the security rules and the presence on the ground, i would like to say that the european union contingents represent more than 50% of the isaf, that the council will concentrate on four priority issues in the coming months, that it will be necessary, firstly, to implement the substantial increase in the number of eupol personnel decided upon by the council on 26 may. it is clear that all matters of police efficiency are important and that parliament is rightly concerned about them. secondly, the council will be keen to monitor the implementation of the conclusions of the international conference on support for afghanistan, because the european union, with its financial support, must have a vital role to play. thirdly, the european union must recall the need to improve relations between afghanistan and pakistan - as many of you have stressed - and to encourage these two countries to continue to work actively to strengthen their cooperation, particularly in the fight against the common challenge of terrorism and also in all matters relating to drug trafficking. it is important, in conclusion, that the council and the commission enjoy the full support of the european parliament on this issue which is decisive both for the international community and - as many have also stressed - for the future of europe.
member of the commission. − madam president, i will try to be brief. i will just make three remarks. the first is on pakistan. it is absolutely clear that it is very important to work on the border area also, and i think also to exploit this window of opportunity that is there following the new formation of the government in pakistan. but at the same time we already see rising tensions there, and hopefully these will not, of course, jeopardise the somewhat improved bilateral exchanges at grass-root level. we are also working, therefore, in the border areas and we see that regional cooperation, including border management and regional trade facilities, is important, and we also support the g8 dialogue initiative that has been started with germany on afghanistan and pakistan. this is my first remark. my second remark is on justice. indeed, we think that good governance is of course important and this goes hand-in-hand with police and justice. if there is impunity the police can do what they want. there has to be a good system of justice. therefore, together with the council, which has been working on police, we the commission have been working very strongly on justice and we have, therefore, contributed substantially to shaping afghanistan’s national justice strategy and programme and again this has to be a sustainable programme which means for the long term. there is a dedicated window, this is the afghanistan reconstruction trust fund (artf) for the justice sector to which we plan to contribute also from afghanistan’s bilateral programme and we have delivered on the process and promise already at the rome conference, but of course a lot of reforms are necessary. my third and last remark is on rural development. the paris conference has clearly shown that our focus has to be very strong on rural development. i must say we have from the beginning also had this as one of the important sectors and have worked on that. we are strongly engaged in continuing and in providing economic alternatives to opium poppy production. we also – and this is so to say, the news spin – improve rural infrastructures through river-basin management and irrigation and improve local seeds and animal breeding. and i personally think it is highly interesting to look into a regional approach, for instance in the north, with cooperation with tajikistan on hydro-power for electricity and for gaining water for irrigation of fields, thus of course giving much better food production for the afghan population, which could bring them away from drugs. thus we are indeed looking forward to a continued close and fruitful joint cooperation with parliament because it will be for the long haul that we are there, and i do hope we get your support for the policy as such – for the strategy, but also for the implementation. we know it is taxpayers’ money but i think we have to be there and work together with you for the stability of afghanistan.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i have three comments to make. first of all, i would have liked to tell angelika beer that i am not afraid of my own group and that i am happy to lead this debate. one of the most terrible amendments to my report in the committee came from my group, which said that there had been no positive changes in afghanistan. this arrogance really offends me. i think we all need to be very realistic and differentiated about afghanistan. this is a rich, contradictory, diverse society, and the problems are just that. secondly, some colleagues have said that we must take responsibility for afghanistan in terms of terrorism, drug production, corruption, etc. some of my colleagues on the left might say from the point of view of occupation. my point of view, which i have tried to make clear, is that of the interests of a people who have been at war for thirty years. i think that there is a lot to be said for this in the report, and i would like to thank all those involved and all the political groups for that. thirdly, although i disagree with important parts of the report, i will be happy to work with it in my continued commitment to afghanistan. there's no question about it.
acting president of the council. - madam president, i would first of all like to express my gratitude to the slovenian presidency, to the rapporteur of the draft in parliament and to the commission, who managed to combine their efforts to reach an agreement on the inclusion of aviation in the european emission trading system, and i know that it was difficult. this agreement is a very important political signal and at the same time an instrument for achieving the ambitious objectives we have set ourselves to combat climate change. it is also an ambitious undertaking that is part of a broader political context, that of the ongoing negotiations on the energy/climate package in europe, and the ongoing negotiations in the world on the fight against climate change. finally, the international economic and political context is difficult and has made the negotiation of this text particularly difficult. several factors had to be taken into account: the rising price of oil, the concern to preserve the international competitiveness of european airlines, the desire and commitment of the union to combat climate change and the pursuit of an international agreement in copenhagen in 2009. it was necessary to take account of the interests of each individual, the interests of regions which, because of their geographical situation, are very much dependent on aviation for their development or for their links with metropolitan areas. we have also taken into account airlines in the new member states, which have a low but rapidly growing mobility rate. finally, the special situation of small and mediumsized enterprises is also taken into account, so that the compromise which you have before you today is a balanced but ambitious package of measures. this compromise recognises that aviation will also have to contribute to the effort to reduce co2 emissions and, at the same time, it allows this industry sector, which is obviously very important, to prepare and adapt to the new environmental requirements. the quota rate being auctioned is moderate, very moderate, and the ceiling on which the allocations to be allocated to the various operators will be calculated remains realistic. this agreement is international in scope, covering european companies as well as those from third countries. it will have to take account of the equivalent measures that these third countries could take and, above all, it should be seen as a precursor to a future global agreement on the participation of international aviation in the carbon market. that's our ambition. the member states and the commission therefore wish to continue discussions in the various international fora to create the conditions for such a global agreement, or at bilateral level to forge links between the european system and other national or regional systems to come. finally, we have taken care to send a particular signal to developing countries, many of which could see their airlines exempted from the system thanks to the de minimis clause which has been incorporated into the text of the agreement. in conclusion, in the same spirit, it is stated that the proceeds from the sale of allowances by auction should be used - the term has been weighed - to combat the effects of climate change in europe and outside europe through a whole series of measures which are listed in the text. the focus was on measures to facilitate adaptation to climate change in developing countries, aeronautics research and low-emission transport.
member of the commission. - the madam president, i would first of all like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, dr liese, for his excellent work on the proposal to include aviation in the european union's emissions trading system, and the european parliament for its positive and constructive contribution. i am pleased that it has been possible to reach agreement on a second reading. members of the european parliament have played a key role in ensuring the integrity of the commission's proposal and setting higher environmental targets in a number of important areas. by agreeing on the directive, the community institutions have demonstrated that the european union can adopt concrete measures to achieve its ambitious climate change objectives. the directive is the first in a series of measures aimed at achieving the european union's 2020 greenhouse gas target. its adoption sends a positive message for the upcoming negotiations on the climate and energy package. all sectors of the economy should contribute to the achievement of the european union's climate change objectives. the integration of the aviation sector into the emissions trading system is an integral part of the european union's overall approach to addressing the impact of aviation on climate change. emissions from aviation are increasing rapidly; they have almost doubled compared to 1990 and are expected to double again by 2020. it is therefore necessary to take decisive action, which is not possible at the level of the member states but only at the level of the european union. the agreement reached at second reading also confirms the strength of the european union's emissions trading system, which is the largest in the world. with the international negotiations for an international climate agreement after 2012, the european union's emissions trading system can be the foundation on which the global carbon market will be built. participation in the eu ets will provide airlines with the opportunity to gain the necessary experience in view of future global carbon emission limitations. in parallel to the adoption and implementation of the directive, the commission will continue to work within the united nations framework convention on climate change and the international civil aviation organisation to achieve an effective global agreement to address aviation emissions. we will continue to push for aviation to be included in an international climate change control regime beyond 2012, the year the kyoto targets expire. however, there will be no global agreement unless someone is willing to lead this global effort. by including aviation in the eu ets, we are taking on this leadership role but at the same time we are emphasising that we are open to dialogue with our partners, which we hope will lead to a global system. in some key areas, the european parliament has successfully negotiated, with the result that the final legislative act goes beyond the commission's initial proposal, in particular as regards the ceiling and the percentage of allowances to be auctioned. i am particularly pleased that the european parliament has insisted throughout the negotiating process on the need to secure an ambitious directive to tackle the impact of aviation on climate change. the agreement on this directive is an important step forward in the fight against climate change. the european commission is therefore in a position to accept the compromise package in order to reach agreement at second reading.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in fact, greenhouse gas emissions from aviation have doubled, perhaps more than doubled, since 1990, and the latest figures are not yet available. this is not at all in line with the european union's target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020, and by 30% if others join in. the decision to include aviation in the emissions trading scheme was therefore overdue, and it is good that we have now agreed on a compromise package at second reading. the agreement is an important signal for the overall climate and energy package, which we want to conclude this year, if possible. i thank all those who contributed to the outcome, the shadow rapporteurs, the representatives of other committees, such as mr georg jarzembowski for the committee on transport, the staff, the representatives of the commission and the council, and above all the slovenian presidency, which i believe has delivered a masterpiece in the light of the difficult discussions in the council. we have debated and struggled with many important individual issues, but in the end we have reached a workable compromise. the compromise contains many elements which are generally regarded as positive. air transport emissions trading will work better than electricity producers and energy-intensive companies from the outset. there will be no national allocation plans and therefore no problems of over-allocation, distortion of competition and the like. we will have a european-wide distribution of benchmarks and auctions, which means that companies that have already invested in clean technology today will be rewarded and not punished as they have been in the past. the important thing is that we have persuaded the council of ministers to agree to a formulation on the allocation of funds which goes beyond anything the council has been prepared to accept elsewhere. it is about climate protection: we do not want to introduce a new tax here, but the funds must be earmarked. i am particularly pleased that we are supporting people who use environmentally friendly means of transport such as buses and trains, because they are also suffering from the high prices of oil and, unlike airlines, sometimes have to cope with very high taxes - in my country, for example, with the green tax. we must think about change here, and the opportunity is now there. the revolutionary thing is that flights and airlines from third countries are involved. this is necessary for environmental reasons, because two thirds of the emissions covered by our system are not from intra-european flights, but from intercontinental flights. we also want to involve third countries for competition reasons. we are convinced that our system is compatible with international law, such as the chicago convention, and there are numerous legal opinions on this. we have to live with the fact that the current united states government sees it differently. i am not one to criticize president bush on every issue - i see this as a differentiated matter - but at this point i find it really intolerable that the united states government now says that we should negotiate at the international level, at the icao level. the icao has had the task of reducing emissions from aviation since 1997, since kyoto, and they have achieved nothing, nothing at all, and one important reason was the opposition of the current american government. so i want to make it very clear again: we want an international agreement, but realistically you have to say that we will not get it until someone who is really serious about climate action moves into the white house with john mccain or barack obama. then we'll take a step forward. i think that the commission has made a very good compromise, and i would be delighted if this house could agree to it by a large majority.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on behalf of the epp-ed group, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr peter liese, for this result. and there are two aspects to that: it is a balanced outcome of negotiations between parliament and the council, but it is also a balanced outcome in terms of environmental interests, transport and economic interests, and we must recognize that this is a very complex issue. i am particularly pleased that the introduction date has been agreed for 2012. this gives us the opportunity to make progress in negotiations with third countries. i would like to ask you, commissioner, not only to take the position that we are right, but to ask everyone else to follow us, because then we will have retaliatory measures from other countries against our airlines. you can't do that! we must not make airlines and, by shifting effects, european airports the victims of a one-sided environmental policy. i therefore appeal to you to take very seriously the mandate of the council and parliament to negotiate swiftly over the next few years. i admit that with america you can take your time until 2010, but with the other countries - russia, china - we must talk to avoid our island solution putting our airlines, our airports with the many thousands and millions of employees in trouble. i am also glad that there is a balance in the matter, because although we are going back to the years 2004 to 2006 as the base years for allocating the allowances, we are very reasonable in the cap at 97% and 95% respectively, and by giving 85% of the allowances initially free of charge and only 15% to auction, we are achieving effects of reducing the environmental impact of air transport. at the same time, we are keeping the cost to the airlines and the cost to the passengers within reasonable limits. in view of the dramatic rise in the price of kerosene, we must ensure that we balance the interests of citizens in terms of the environment and transport and mobility. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur once again.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first of all, i would like to thank peter liese, the rapporteur responsible, for his very collegial and good cooperation. i am also hopeful that we will be able to achieve a good result in this parliament, with each other and with the council, and that will be during this parliamentary term. the compromise shows that europe is serious about tackling climate change. this compromise is also a good sign, across borders, internationally, that we are making progress on climate protection, but also on energy efficiency. i am particularly pleased that all aircraft with a take-off weight of 5.7 tonnes are included and that certain aircraft, such as business aircraft, are not excluded. it would have led to misunderstanding among the population if we had made exceptions for privileged groups. we have had many hearings on climate change in the european parliament in recent weeks and months. all the experts have said through the bank: we must stop the trend in emissions, and we must do it in the next decade! we have succeeded in stopping this trend in the aviation sector with this compromise. in 2012, we will introduce a 97% cap on allowances to be issued, and from 2013 onwards, a 95% cap. this will stop the trend, especially in this sector, which has grown rapidly by 73% from 1990 to 2003. this is gonna be the beginning of a revolution! some colleagues have just indicated that 85% of the allowances are given out free of charge and 15% are auctioned. i would have liked to have seen a more ambitious approach. but that is a compromise that everyone can live with now, and a compromise is better than going into third reading. the revenue will be used to fight climate change and adaptation. that is also explicitly stated in this directive. i would like to ask the member states once again to use the money for this purpose and not to fill any budgetary holes with it! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect. i have advocated the introduction of a multiplier during the legislative procedure on nox emissions. i would like to ask the commissioner: when will the commission present a legislative proposal on this?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i'm surprised, pleased and worried. i am surprised at the speed with which the rapporteur of parliament, in a backroom conversation with the council presidency, has swept off the table almost everything that has been important to parliament on this dossier over the last two years. this should not be the standard for how we discuss the climate package that is before us now, because this is backroom politics and not transparent democracy. i'm glad we stayed on the ground. it is particularly important to keep the cost of the system low when including airlines, because any airline that does not already manage its fuel efficiently today will do so under penalty of bankruptcy. i am concerned about the wishful thinking that some of us have about the international situation. mr liese, the emissions trading system in the united states has failed not in the presidency but in the senate, where the party with the majority may be the next to elect the president. we have the problem of realistically assessing the situation here, because even if we manage to convince the americans to do emissions trading, we still have a whole bunch of other countries in this world that i'm not sure how we want to talk to at all. i'm thinking of the emir of dubai, for example. this region is economically for us the much bigger challenge, the competition with it is much more important than that with a few - excuse me for this word - bankrupt us airlines. we've completely ignored that here. it is very important to keep a balance, a balance in the sense that we should certainly be moving forward, but not so far that others stop following us. we're provoking a trade war here. you have also heard this, mr liese, one on one in your congressional hearings. that is why we have now reached a compromise which is somewhat realistic, but hopefully not from the point of view of procedure. (the president cut the speaker off)
acting president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as many of you have pointed out, no compromise is perfect. but it represents a balance between environmental requirements and economic constraints on quality. if you accept this compromise, you will be marking an important milestone for the european union. firstly, you will prove that europe is capable of developing its legislation to combat climate change and, of course, this bodes well for the discussions on the climate/energy package. you will strengthen europe's leadership in the global policy against anthropogenic carbon emissions, and this bodes well for the international negotiations in poznań in december 2008 and copenhagen in december 2009. and finally, you will encourage our international partners to encourage the personalities and political forces who want to give new impetus to the effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. i am thinking, of course, of the bilateral discussions we may have with states that would implement the same kind of system, but also of the multilateral discussions within the icao framework, and for all these reasons i ask you to support this agreement. (applause) i would like to thank you.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank all the contributors for their very positive positions. by reaching an agreement on this directive the community institutions are demonstrating their determination to adopt the concrete measures which are necessary to implement the european union’s ambitious climate change goals. this directive is the first of a series of measures which are designed to deliver on the european union’s greenhouse gas objective by 2020. its adoption is a positive signal for the forthcoming negotiations on the climate and energy package and the international negotiations in poznań and copenhagen. i have just been informed that the g8 have agreed on a long-term reduction target of 50% in 2050. although we welcome this, it is only a partial step forward because they failed to agree on a mid-term target despite the fact that both the european union member states and the commission insisted on the necessity of a mid-term target. today, on the basis of the agreed text, all flights to and from the european union airports will be fully included in the european union emissions trading scheme from 2012. this means that from 2012 aircraft operators will need emission allowances to cover their flights into and out of the european union. in 2012 the number of emissions allowances allocated to the aviation sector will be 3% below the sector’s average annual emissions for the years 2004-2006. from 2013 the number of allowances will be 5% lower. like other industries in the scheme, they will be able to sell any allowances they do not need on the market, but if their emissions are higher they will need to buy more allowances or emission credits from clean energy projects in third countries. this is how the emissions trading scheme creates an incentive for participants to minimise their emissions. the majority of allowances to airlines will be free but 15% of allowances will be auctioned. the revenues from this auctioning should be used to tackle climate change in the european union and third countries, especially developing countries. this level may be increased from 2013 as part of the ongoing discussions to revise the emissions trading directive. in january this year the commission proposed that 20% of allowances for aviation should be auctioned in 2013, increasing to 100% in 2020. while supporting this agreement, the commission position in the context of the revised emissions trading directive remains that the auctioning level in the aviation sector should be 20% in 2013 and increased in line with sectors other than the power sector. for these sectors it is proposed to auction 20% of allowances in 2013, increasing to 100% in 2020. as regards the issue of nitrogen oxide emissions, the commission indicated in its original proposal that a separate measure would be proposed to address nitrogen oxide emissions and can make the following declaration:‘the commission recalls that it intends to issue by december 2008 a legislative proposal to introduce measures to limit nitrogen oxide emissions from aviation, in particular to address effectively the climate change impact and to avoid any negative incentives to reduce carbon dioxide emissions at the expense of nitrogen oxides.’ in conclusion, the commission is very pleased. i would like to particularly thank dr liese for his excellent work and results. we are very pleased with the outcome of the negotiations. the commission can accept the proposed compromise amendments in full. (applause)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i thank you for the many compliments that have been expressed and i give it back to those who have helped. i am also grateful for the criticism that has been expressed in some quarters. i can make a few things clear again: a speaker said we were doing backroom politics here. i think that's wrong. the procedure was very open, and the speaker himself was present at every step, the shadow rapporteurs were informed of all the details, and in my group we also discussed this among ourselves. i do not know whether this was the case in the group of this speaker, but we were very open about it - also internally. we have made a great deal of progress with the council of ministers. the commissioner has said that it is more ambitious than the original commission proposal, and the number of amendments alone that we have passed - 30 - shows that we have changed the common position, in some places very substantially. mrs lucas and mr holm and others have said that it falls short of the expectations of the environmental associations. that is true, but it would not be a good compromise if we had taken in everything that the environmental groups and the greens have asked for. in two places - and the commissioner has also mentioned this - we can make further adjustments. the report by avril doyle gives us the opportunity to adjust the cap and the level of auctioning again, so that it is fair to other participants in emissions trading. we will have to look at this very carefully in the second half of the year. in conclusion, i would like to emphasize once again that we want a level playing field. we want a global agreement and we want to include flights from third countries. but it's time for the airlines to help us do that. i see a letter from the aea association of european airlines saying that after the compromise is reached, other governments will understandably reject it. you should think about whether you're going to keep people like that, they're very bad lobbyists. we will now accept the result by a very large majority, and then we will defend it together against third countries, then we will work together. but if the democratic decision of parliament is not accepted, then we must tell the airlines that they are doing themselves harm. i ask for your agreement and thank you for your many contributions.
mr president, may i point out that the display is working in every seat in the chamber, that we only introduced these mysterious screens a year ago, that it worked before, and that trust in the president is a prerequisite for good governance anyway. (applause from the centre)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. in view of the terrible terrorist attack yesterday in kabul and on the basis of today's debate, i would like to propose an oral amendment to add the following as a new paragraph 3a: 'condemn in the strongest terms the terrorist attack on the indian embassy in kabul on 7 july 2008, which resulted in the deaths of more than 40 people, including four embassy staff; the european union expresses its deepest sympathy to the families of the victims, to the wounded and to the afghan and indian governments. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i am very disappointed that the recommendation for second reading by mrs westlund has not succeeded in introducing a ban on azo dyes. this is very disappointing, because a label does not give security. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is very unfortunate. we are also very disappointed that the failure to include and regulate genetically modified additives has been a sign of how serious we are about consumer protection. but the most regrettable thing is that we have not succeeded in protecting the children from azo dyes. the alarming study in southampton makes it very clear that we must demand a ban, that we need a ban. what does the precautionary principle actually say other than that we must take the consequences when there is evidence of danger? the consequences would have been a ban. and if a general ban was not possible, i find it very regrettable that we have not even succeeded in banning products intended primarily for children.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am against the common position on the inclusion of aviation in the emissions trading scheme because there are a number of reasons against it. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the commission will be able to take part in it. we have not succeeded in finding a global approach as europeans, which means that our measures will unilaterally put european airlines and airports at a disadvantage. and we have basically failed - if that had been clear - to do a proper cost-benefit analysis. in other words, the measures we have decided today are neither useful nor necessary, and we have created a situation here which is uncomfortable and which is in principle contrary to the lisbon strategy. we have not strengthened europe's position, we have placed it at a disadvantage, and this unilaterally, and that is why i am against it. we should have increased the capacity of the infrastructure and created a common european airspace. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. like the lemmings, the majority of this house is stumbling from corbett reform to corbett reform, and each corbett reform means less democracy and fewer rights for members. then the opposite is also said! it is claimed that they want more debate, but at the same time they are abolishing debate on own-initiative reports and replacing them with written declarations. but parliament is made up of speeches and not of minutes. notes to minutes are for bureaucrats. there is talk of more time for legislative work. we'd have them by thursday, friday. but we're not using it. it is because we do not have enough time for legislative work. a real parliamentary reform - i agree with mr sumberg - would be something quite different. we are depriving ourselves of our rights, we are reducing speaking time, we are not able to table any more amendments, that is to say, we are depriving ourselves of our capacity for compromise. there will be nothing but ideological disputes over rigid texts. i consider today to be a particularly dark day in the history of this parliament, in which i have been active for 29 years - 15 years as a staff member and journalist, 14 years as a member of parliament. i believe that we must not continue down this path of self-castration of parliament. the committee on foreign affairs in particular has lost much of its powers and possibilities today. i am deeply sorry for this!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the former german chancellor gerhard schröder, who is now the chairman of the supervisory board of the baltic sea pipeline, has already pushed this project forward as head of government. it has cold-bloodedly agreed with moscow on this project, over and above its european neighbours, and has thus aroused historical fears, but also justified ecological and economic questions to which there is no satisfactory answer. i therefore say quite clearly: this project can only be realised if the fears and concerns of europe's neighbours, the eu's partners, are taken seriously and if they give their consent. a policy that goes beyond the neighbours is un-european and therefore unacceptable in my eyes. i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. all sides must take matters into their own hands and realise that we in europe need solidarity in foreign policy on all these vital issues, because only then will our partners in the world take us seriously. that is why, as a german member of parliament, i voted in favour of the libicki report and against the uncritical construction of the baltic sea pipeline.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think we have now found a text that is acceptable to some extent. i regret, however, that some difficulties remain in terms of coherence. i regret the approach adopted by those who complained today that the scoreboard did not work. four weeks ago we saw the committee vote down in a very brutal way the fact that 22 languages were not available. that is why i am particularly opposed to the procedure we have found. it is about economic issues, it is about historical issues, it is certainly also about energy, and it is perhaps also about the environment. but the environment is being carried like a monster here, and it is remarkable that the european parliament's committee on the environment, which should have been the first to take action, has refused to make any statement at all. the procedure we have chosen here has not been correct. we could have prepared a better text. i therefore did not end up approving the report - mainly for procedural reasons and because of the way the committee on petitions dealt with each other.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the brilliant foreign policy strategist franz josef strauss, whose 20th anniversary we will celebrate this autumn on 3 october, always said: if you have buttoned a jacket wrong, you have to unbutton it again to button it properly. this is precisely the situation we have in afghanistan, because we have chosen the wrong political strategy. the minorities of the northern alliance have been relied upon and the representative forces of the majority population, the pashtuns, have been neglected. that's why politics and democracy don't work there. if we fail to win over the majority of the representative pashtun forces to the west, to democracy, to our engagement there, we will fail in afghanistan in a dramatic way that is already showing. i can therefore only appeal to all concerned to dare to make a political start in afghanistan and not to push the pashtuns into the arms of the remnants of the taliban by lumping pashtuns and taliban together. this would be wrong! we need a new political strategy that is more nuanced. as europeans, we are perhaps better acquainted with the problems of nationality than others. we should use this experience in afghanistan wisely and competently.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has not discussed the gas market and gas networks in such an ideologized way. we have adopted our position in the econ committee very consistently and by a large majority. it is clear that the compromise on the question of decoupling the networks is not so strongly ideological. the question of whether national authorization procedures are realistically suitable to ensure future progress in particular with regard to crossborder networks, the extension of networks and investment in networks is much more important in our report. we see a great deal of catching up to be done here and we regret that the opinion of the plenary does not give much prominence to the fact that the approval procedures in the national states should be speeded up. the second aspect which seems to us to be important is the question of the regulator. the acceptance of the regulator in the national states would be much stronger if the regulator had a high degree of independence. there have been contractual concerns raised. but if we look at the whole thing from a regulatory point of view, then we can only argue for a regulator if he also has the appropriate means of intervention. i would like to thank mr buzek once again for his contribution to this subject. we have a networked debate here on the question of energy policy. in the set plan mr buzek has made very constructive proposals. i myself, as rapporteur for the ccs demonstration, will also be making concrete proposals for funding. i think that after a very heated and ideological debate we should now put the question of what the concrete steps actually are to the fore. that means that we now have a transitional period during which we must also check whether the proposed measures are working. this seems to me to be much more important than having a highly ideological discussion about the ownership of networks.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. - mr president, i have to say something. i shall now present the findings of the committee on economic and monetary affairs in a minute - a rather crazy undertaking, as crazy as some of our debating structures, which then lead to this. so i'll just say one thing, there's not enough time. the commissioner has just made it clear once again that, from the commission's point of view, the unbundling of property rights is, after all, the most efficient measure. we doubt that because it's not empirically or theoretically proven. empirically not there are plenty of examples of companies that are not as clean as the ones that are not bound by property rights. it's not theoretically provable either. it is and remains a monopoly, a natural monopoly, and a monopoly has little to do with competition. so it's less about ownership, it's about regulation. this is where strict regulation is needed, for unbundled operators, and for non-unbundled operators. we have made a number of proposals in the economic committee. it would be desirable if these proposals were to be implemented.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this debate on the energy package was a debate which i will remember as one which could not be conducted in all its details in an exclusively competent manner, but we went through it. we haven't always taken the time to do it. and that is what i want to say in this debate at this time. i hope it doesn't catch up with us on the track. i have learned once again that in politics there is a great danger of relying on a panacea, then whipping it with all your might and promising people that this is the solution to all their problems. i hope that in the end we will really solve the problems that we have to face. the problems are: how do we get more investment and cheaper prices, how do we achieve security of supply in the energy sector in europe? from morning till night we read the newspapers and hear on the television news about the anxieties that exist in the world in this connection. i am not sure that this is the solution we have so often proposed in these debates. i have my doubts. i am therefore very grateful that we have gone a little further on the gas directive, that we have gone a little more towards compromise, that we have differentiated a little more and have realised that electricity and gas are different, that there is not just one solution for all cases, that it is good that we are also moving towards the third way and not just seeing decoupling as the number one option, that we have modified a little bit a lot of what the commission has envisaged. whether that's always enough remains to be seen. i am very grateful that the council in june, with a new proposal, showed that even in such difficult situations, it is possible to go beyond borders and differences of opinion and find solutions. i would like to see what we have decided on gas now slightly revised tomorrow in the direction of the compromise which has already been reached in the council. in the end, if we want a quick solution, we need a compromise between the commission, the council and parliament. i think that what the council has given us and what we have found here with the gas are very close. perhaps this should be taken as a benchmark for the electricity market.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it was always said that my country, germany, was completely isolated internationally in matters of the use of nuclear energy. i sometimes wonder how such a report can be made and whether people do not know how few countries in the world use nuclear energy at all. if you look closely, there are only six countries in the world that produce three-quarters of all the nuclear electricity that is in the world. a few others are added that have marginal atomic power shares. that is to say, nuclear energy has not played any role in the world so far, it has played a role only in a part of europe and a major role in north america. whether that changes or not depends on many things, including how much public money is now to be pumped back into this dying industry. the united states, which is so brilliant in hokkaido, has now made available, with the outgoing president bush, 18 million dollars in guarantees to help two or three reactor projects get off the ground - they have not built for twenty years, they need a lot of public money to create an artificial market. the uk has been promised 6 billion euros. this is what a reactor there is said to cost if the german company e.on builds it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are protected. we really have to decide whether we are going to invest public money in future technologies and new markets or whether we are going to stick with the technology of the last century, which is associated with enormous risks. i am advocating for the future and against nuclear energy because i am convinced that the risks of this technology are not manageable. the fact that another accident has been reported today from the paks nuclear power station in hungary confirms my view. thank you for your attention.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 9 july 2008. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the debate will then follow on the oral question to the council on the eu's approach to state-controlled pervenche berès fund companies on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-0067/2008 b6-0164/2008) and the oral question to the commission on the eu's approach to state-controlled pervenche berès fund companies on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (o-0068/2008 b6-0165/2008).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the sovereign wealth funds have been the subject of much discussion in recent months because of their involvement in banks in europe and the united states. many believe that this involvement is only the first step and that the sovereign wealth funds are now embarking on a large-scale buying spree, which will result in many companies in europe and perhaps elsewhere coming under the influence or even control of sovereign wealth funds. this is compounded by the fear of political influence and at least the attempt to gain access to technologies that would otherwise be inaccessible, especially because we are now dealing with partners and players who have not been active on the international stage before, namely state funds from russia and china. the money would indeed be there. with over three trillion dollars under management, they have more than twice the amount of international hedge funds. but we must say that historically there is no reason for this assumption. the funds - as has been said - have so far proved to be good shareholders. they are interested in the long-term, positive development of their business and thus in a good and positive return on their investments in the long term. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we need rules of the game, but we do not need lock-outs and protectionism. the state funds are an example of how the free capital market works, and we have an interest in keeping it that way. we, as liberals, therefore support the commission in its approach and in its call for a code of conduct, and we hope that such a code will actually create transparency, that the reason for the investments of the state funds will be clear and that the state funds will introduce and adhere to good corporate governance. but we need an eu-wide solution - we don't need 27 solutions in the eu - and we need an international solution. i therefore welcome what the commissioner has said, that there are already intensive talks with the oecd and the international monetary fund. the free movement of capital has contributed to growth in europe and the world in the past. we should not jeopardize this in the future by over-regulation and protectionism, but should stick to the principle of the free market.
the debate was closed by the tabling of a motion for a resolution pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 9 july 2008.
the commission's vice-president − madam president, ladies and gentlemen, after the adoption of the first two railway packages in 2001 and 2004, and just before the adoption of the third railway package in 2007, the commission proposed on 13 december 2006 a series of legislative measures on the cross-acceptance of railway rolling stock. these measures are intended to support the revitalisation of the railway sector by removing obstacles to train movement on the european rail networks. the two matters which are the subject of this debate, the amendment of the directive on railway safety and the amendment of the regulation on the european railway agency, are part of these measures. the amendment of the regulation establishing the european railway agency had two main objectives. first, the extension of the agency's powers so that it can play its role in implementing the new interoperability directive. it will have to identify the various national procedures and technical rules in force for the typeapproval of locomotives. it will then have to draw up, and subsequently extend, the list of equivalencies and thus of requirements which, once verified by a national safety authority, need no longer be verified by those of the other member states where the same locomotive may be required to operate. this work will be carried out in cooperation with the networks of national security authorities, which the agency is responsible for coordinating. the agency will also be responsible for producing technical opinions at the request of the national safety authorities or the commission. the commission also proposed that the agency should be given the task of developing and implementing the ertms system, the directive on driver certification and the registers and databases to be implemented by the agency. the agency will have a crucial role to play in the implementation of the ertms, not only in defining the specifications of this unified signalling system, but also in ensuring the technical compatibility of fixed and on-board equipment of the different versions. first of all, let me congratulate the rapporteur, the chairman of the committee, mr costa, on the work being done at second reading to reach an agreement with the council. this result was achieved after several working sessions and a lot of effort from all of us. the results of the negotiations are still cautious: amendments to the two common positions adopted by the council on 3 march 2008, which the commission can fully endorse. mr costa, i thank you for the work you have done. now, i'm going to listen to the debate with great interest.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. actually, we could almost meet in the committee room, but it's so nice to have you all here. i would like to begin by saying that i would like to express my special thanks to the rapporteur on behalf of my group. he's been fighting over and over again over the last few weeks over technical details to try and make improvements to the case. the two amending directives now agreed between the council and parliament actually increase rail safety and also give us a chance to improve interoperability and thus get closer to our goal of actually moving more freight from road to rail. i am particularly concerned that the new authorization procedure, the mutual recognition of authorization rules, will clearly reduce the cost of authorization and thus promote the use of rolling stock throughout europe. but at the same time - and this was one of our difficult points, and i thank the rapporteur for his persistence - we must ensure that the responsibility for the repair of the wagons is clearly and unambiguously regulated, because only in this way can we make our citizens aware, so to speak, that wagons can be used across national borders without any extra controls, and promote interoperability. i am also in favour of the agency actually trying to promote the eatms system, and i share the rapporteur's view that the best is the enemy of the good! if we change the version too quickly, it's unlikely anyone will ever get on. so, with caution and care, we're moving forward with the eatms version. we all have a heart for railways and especially for historic railways. i am therefore glad that we have made it clear here that all the technically difficult but generally necessary safety provisions for museum railways and historic railways are not necessary. i hope our friends can hear and see us. we fully recognize the interests of the museum railroad.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal you are debating this evening is very important because it will make it possible to modernise and complete the 1992 regulations which created the single aviation market in europe. the main aim is to simplify and consolidate existing legislation. i believe that the agreement on the table, after parliament's first reading in july 2007 and the adoption of the council's common position last november, will achieve the main objectives. firstly, the revision cleans up the text by deleting the obsolete parts relating to the transition phase towards liberalised markets. the text is clarified and three regulations are consolidated into one. secondly, it ensures the effective and uniform application of community rules by defining more precise and stricter criteria. for example, in the area of the granting and monitoring of operating licences. it also strengthens the monitoring of the financial viability of companies. thirdly, it also strengthens coordination between member states in the field of inter-community services. fourthly, it promises new rights for passengers, which is very important. the right to full information on the actual price of a ticket, including taxes, charges and fees, and the right not to be discriminated against on grounds of nationality or residence when purchasing a ticket. i stress the rights of passengers because if we are to defend the european debates, we must always remember that the aim of our work is the citizens of europe. i therefore welcome the rapid progress made on this matter and would like to emphasize once again the work done by the rapporteur, mr degutis, and the trans committee on this text, which has been considerably improved. given the absence of any differences between the two institutions, i hope that we can adopt this new text quickly and allow it to enter into force without delay.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank you very much, mr degutis, for your good cooperation in this liberalization package. we have found some good compromises and we will be reporting on your report tomorrow. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. three existing regulations are summarised in a single, easily understandable legal text. the common position provides for a practical revision of the existing eu legislation on air services. the regulation covers not only the licensing of airlines but also technical matters and price transparency. i would like to make a special reference to this last point for my group. we have been working hard since the beginning to ensure that misleading advertising with absurdly low net airfares finally comes to an end. we want to make things much easier for the consumer, which is long overdue. the eu regulation puts an end to the often consumer-obscure trick of offering bait. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of air transport services. it must be clear to the consumer what proportion of the air fare goes to the state and what proportion is shared by the airline and the airport. this is particularly true of the internet. and that is why we have advocated a clear breakdown. i thank you, and we shall be glad to agree with you tomorrow.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we should like to thank our colleague degutis in advance for his good work and, of course, for the good cooperation. finally, we are adopting the necessary update to the third liberalisation package. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. it also clarifies that community and national social legislation must be properly applied irrespective of the member state in which the air carrier has its operational base. nevertheless, social and working conditions in european air transport remain a problem and must be addressed. the insurance model for the insolvency of airlines could not be clarified here either because of its complexity. this is a work order to the commission. the regulation on price transparency is a great success. in future it will no longer be possible to bait the european citizens with decoys. in addition to the final price, each customer will now be able to see how much the airlines, airports and the state share in the cost. this is a major contribution to consumer protection. i would like to thank the rapporteur once again for his excellent cooperation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if europe is rich in anything, it is rich in its diversity. we must keep this in mind, even when we talk about transport in cities, in order to preserve and protect this wealth in the long term. that is why i am a little afraid, after hearing the first statements, that the balance which our rapporteur has formulated in his report, between what can be decided subsidiarily on the ground and the little we can contribute as the european union, will be lost, because then we will have european cities and we will lose this wealth in europe. i would therefore like to make it quite clear that local authorities which have already tackled the problems of transport organization in the past do not need the green paper, and local authorities which have so far refused to tackle this issue will not tackle it because of the green paper and our resolution. i would ask that, with all due care for detail, we also be clear about this: europe will only succeed if it is accepted by the citizens on the ground. it has no acceptance among the local citizens if they feel that it interferes with all aspects of local life. that's why i've been very critical, even in committee. i very much regret that i did not make my requests known to the committee on transport and tourism, because i am already worried that we will end up - of course, first of all, with best practice, with incentives through the structural funds, the cohesion funds - doing something where we really should be avoiding it. i therefore ask you to formulate what has now been agreed in committee as a compromise as a maximum, but do not let us overshadow it by a multitude of proposals, such as those which have now been presented. europe will not win if it interferes in all areas of life!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too would like to thank the rapporteur very warmly. but i find it difficult to find positive words for the result, for the report before us. the european cities are left to their own devices, they are not helped. instead of creating a concrete and helpful framework for the conurbations of the 27 member states, the majority of meps in the committee opted for a shallow paper: greener, less noise and better quality of life! the commission's green paper on urban transport has already been published, and this report covers the same issues. you wanted to present a sushi menu for the free choice of measures against traffic problems, dear colleague rack. but your report will give us a list of ingredients without a prescription. european action is urgently needed. eight out of ten eu citizens live in cities and suffer from the same problems almost everywhere: congestion, accidents, noise and air pollution. cities also play a central role in the context of climate change. transport in cities is responsible for around 40% of all co2 emissions and 70% of all greenhouse gases. the eu will not be able to meet its own climate targets unless traffic is reduced and the car is replaced by rail, bus, cycling and walking. in fact, emissions in transport have increased by 30% since 1999, while in other sectors they have fallen by 10%. so they have basically eaten up the achievements in the other areas. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. the green group will be seeking to give the urgently needed substance to the report on urban transport by means of amendments at the vote tomorrow. firstly, we want to make the eu co-financing environmentally friendly, which means that in our amendment, 40% should be allocated to rail and 10% to the development of cycling. so far, 60% of eu funds in the transport sector are used for road projects, only 20% for local public transport and rail. no wonder we achieve the opposite of what we always conjure. secondly, we want to grant eu funds only if cities can present a sustainable mobility plan, so that many senseless road projects could be prevented. thirdly, we want to increase road safety by introducing a general speed limit of 30 km/h, with the possibility for cities to set higher speeds for certain roads. to improve the environment, climate protection and road safety, europe's cities need substantial support from the eu. but that will only happen with our amendments. if they are rejected, another report will be adopted which will not solve any problem, but the greens will not agree to it.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals. what are we doing here? we're dealing with a matter that's not our responsibility. this green paper on urban transport was drawn up on the basis of a constructed competence, and the commission admits this in a one-to-one meeting. because of the climate debate and because 80% of europeans live in cities, i was told that you were just declaring yourself responsible. yes, dear lord, i could say with equal justification that 80% of europeans live in a family or have lived in a family. so let us now turn to family policy. it would be just as contrived and just as unintelligible. the european level should only promote the exchange of best practice in the field of urban transport, and no more. legislative action in this respect would be a violation of the principle of subsidiarity. it can be assumed that the municipalities themselves are interested in getting their traffic problems under control. this is because it has to do with the functioning of the economy and with the inner-city trade. at the same time, of course, it is a question of the quality of life of the urban population, which is otherwise leaving the cities. the problems of our cities may be similar, but they are not identical. this requires tailor-made solutions by local actors. urban transport policy must be decided and designed locally, in a municipal planning authority. i would therefore caution against calling for legislative measures in this report or, dear commission, interpreting them later if necessary. and i also warn against more data mountains and perhaps more bureaucracy. a european platform for urban mobility would be the best way to achieve this. and we would certainly be on the way to a new european agency, which would produce even more paper and, of course, cost a lot of money. ladies and gentlemen, this is how you turn the people against europe. we shouldn't be doing this. please don't let it get to that!
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, mr lichtenberger, i am replying in italian because i know that you are a fan of my mother tongue, and i am glad to be able to answer in this way. i thank you for raising a very topical subject which concerns the safety of citizens. i said during my meeting with the committee on transport that the protection of the health of citizens is a priority, the rights of citizens are a priority, especially when they are the smallest citizens who are not able to defend themselves against them and so it is up to us to try to protect their safety in the best way. the problem you raised is a real problem. there are many doubts and even the european aviation safety agency is aware of a number of studies which are controversial, according to which there are problems with safety belts, additional safety belts for children. that is why, faced with a series of contradictory and incomplete information, the agency in 2007 started a study to have a more reliable scientific answer to this question. the current provisions leave member states - regulation no 3922 of 1991 and requires the use of types of child safety devices - leave member states, as i said, the choice. you raised this issue, asking that there could be a certain response from the european union that could say to the member states: 'beware, the system you use does not work and does not guarantee the safety of children'. the scientific review will be completed by october 2008, so in a few months' time, and so as soon as we have a definite answer to the question of safety, namely which means are scientifically, according to the european aviation safety agency, the safest to ensure that children can travel by air with reduced risks, it will be my task to propose immediately the necessary measures to improve child safety devices. i also know that the proposed solution, which is a child seat similar to the one you use in cars, is one of the options being considered by the aviation safety agency. but in order to give an answer and to intervene - which i intend to do because it is right to be concerned about the safety of the smallest citizens - i am waiting for an answer that has scientific guarantees, proven by the aviation safety agency which has so far shown that it knows how to work well and that it also adheres to strictly scientific criteria. so, again, as far as the dates are concerned - you asked me for the exact references - the agency is due to finish its study in october this year. as soon as i hear from easa, i will inform the committee, but i will also be able to speak directly to give member states guidance on how best to protect and ensure the safety of children.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. we all agree that we need to improve the protection of children during flight. i am sure the committee agreed, otherwise it would not be a committee request. i am also grateful to the commission for having started the preparatory work long ago. we are therefore voting in favour of a debate which the commission has already prepared. there are three questions, and perhaps you can tell us something more about them when you give us an answer. you said the technical data would be available in october. but the question is, when will you learn from it? during this period or later? there are three very clear questions. the first question is: what is the best technological system for protecting children? the second question is, once we know this, should the european union impose this by law or does it want to work first with recommendations? the question of binding european legislation is therefore raised. the question is: will we be able to do this in the period ahead, or will we try to make recommendations first and then legislate? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. who's gonna pay for this? we must settle this question! let us assume, as you have indicated, mrs lichtenberger, that there is an idea that a child seat is prescribed for every infant. if a child seat is required, that takes away the space of a seat, and then the question is: do we force parents with children to pay for an extra seat for their infant, or do we pool the cost of safety so that all other passengers who do not take children must pay for the child's seat for a family? so this question - if we are so good as to want to equip the planes for child safety - who pays for safety, we also have to answer.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already done so. when there is a possibility that human lives are at risk, policy must act quickly and proactively. she's got nothing left to do. this, of course, includes children under two years of age on airplanes. first of all, i would like to thank mrs lichtenberger for making the crash test tapes available to us. first of all, thank you, commissioner, for your statement, which is in line with our question, although there are still some points to be clarified. at the end of next week these new regulations for the carriage of small children on airplanes will come into force. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of children is not compromised. but the abdominal straps, as we have seen, can be life threatening. my first question is: at the latest when will you, commissioner, submit a proposal to us for the mandatory exclusive use of child seats in aircraft? this goes in the direction of mr jarzembowski's question. secondly, what is your timely implementation strategy? will it be a regulation, or how should this insight that the study may provide be implemented? thirdly, if we now proceed to pass parts of the necessary eu-ops regulation under the new comitology procedure, how can we be sure that we will be able to get a child safety seat regulation in this parliament and hopefully work on it during this parliamentary term?
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, you have not answered the crucial question. what are you doing in the meantime? there is the positive solution! what if a child dies in an accident and you are partly responsible for your hesitation? how do you deal with it? these are the questions you have to ask yourself, these are the questions we have to ask ourselves. the cost comparison is parallel: disability equality in air transport is a cost-sharing approach. that's only normal. because having children, having children, raising children is not just a private matter, it is a public task, a state task. this is a task which must be faced by all and which must be financed. i take that for granted. if children up to 14 years of age can ride free on trains, the other passengers will also pay. in particular, in the air transport sector, which is exempt from the kerosene tax - that is 14 billion euros a year - it is possible to raise a few marks or a few euros to give children the best protection they need for the future.
the next item is the report by olle schmidt, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the annual report of the ecb for 2007 (2008/2107 ((ini)) (a6-0241/2007).
president of the european central bank. mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, it is my honour to present to you, as required by the treaty, the 2007 annual report of the european central bank. our relations go far beyond the obligations imposed by the treaty, and the european central bank welcomes the very close relationship we have with parliament. this is the fourth time this year that i have spoken before you. my colleagues in the executive board have also been in close contact with the european parliament, particularly on subjects such as the enlargement of the euro area, payment systems and the tenth anniversary of economic and monetary union. i will first give you a brief overview of the economic developments in 2007/2008 and explain the monetary policy measures of the ecb. i would then like to make some comments on the points and suggestions you have made in your draft resolution to the ecb annual report 2007. in 2007 the ecb operated in a challenging environment with rising and volatile commodity prices and, since the second half of 2007, heightened uncertainty stemming from the ongoing correction in financial markets across the world that was mentioned by the rapporteur. despite these developments, the euro area economy continued to expand at solid rates in 2007, with annual real gdp growing by 2.7%. in the first half of 2008, moderate ongoing growth in real gdp has continued, although the quarter-on-quarter profile is likely to show significant volatility owing to temporary, in part weather-related, factors. it is therefore important to focus on the medium-term trend when assessing growth developments. looking ahead, on the external side, growth in emerging countries should remain robust, supporting euro area foreign demand. on the domestic side, the economic fundamentals of the euro area remain sound and the euro area does not suffer from major imbalances. unemployment rates and labour force participation have increased significantly in recent years, and unemployment rates have fallen to levels not seen for 25 years. that being said, the uncertainty surrounding this outlook for growth remains high, with downside risks mainly related to further unanticipated increases in commodity prices, possible further spillovers from continuing tensions in financial markets to the real economy and increasing protectionist tendencies. turning to price developments, in 2007 average annual hicp inflation in the euro area was 2.1%, slightly above the ecb's definition of price stability. however, at the end of the year, substantial increases in international oil and food prices brought inflation to levels well above 2%. since then, inflation in the euro area has risen further and, in the wake of renewed sharp commodity price increases, reached the worrying level of around 4% in mid-2008. looking ahead, the annual hicp inflation rate is likely to remain well above the level consistent with price stability for some time, moderating only gradually in 2009. risks to price stability over the medium term remain clearly on the upside in 2007 and have intensified over recent months. these risks include possible further rises in commodity prices and unanticipated increases in indirect taxes and administered prices. in addition the governing council is strongly concerned that price and wage-setting behaviour could add to inflationary pressure through broadly-based second-round effects. first signs are already emerging in some regions of the euro area. in this context, indexation schemes for nominal wages are of particular concern and should be avoided. as in 2007, the monetary analysis in the first half of 2008 has continued to confirm the prevailing upside risks to price stability at medium to longer horizons. in line with our monetary policy strategy, we take the view that the sustained underlying strength of monetary and credit expansion in the euro area over the past few years has created upside risks to price stability. to contain prevailing upside risks to price stability over the medium term, the governing council further adjusted the monetary policy stance in march and june 2007. after a period of unusually high uncertainty in the context of the financial market correction, in july 2008 the governing council brought the minimum bid rate in the main refinancing operations of the euro system to 4.25%. this action underlines the governing council's strong determination to prevent second-round effects and maintain longer-term inflation expectations firmly anchored in line with price stability. this is the contribution of the ecb's monetary policy to preserving purchasing power over the medium term and supporting sustainable growth and employment in the euro area. following last week's decision to raise rates, in the governing council's current assessment the monetary policy stance will contribute to achieving price stability over the medium term. we will continue to monitor very closely all developments over the period ahead. in the draft resolution you raise a number of issues of relevance for the ecb. i would like to assure you that we will consider the remarks which have just been made and all the remarks which are in the resolution with great care and we will report back to you accordingly. let me perhaps very briefly elaborate on some of these points. on the monetary policy strategy, i would like to start by welcoming the positive assessment made by the committee on economic and monetary affairs on the ecb's monetary policy strategy. our two-pillar framework ensures that all information relevant for the assessment of risks to price stability is taken into account in a consistent and systematic manner when taking monetary policy decisions. in 2007 the governing council launched within the euro system a research agenda to further enhance its monetary analysis, as also proposed in the draft resolution to continue to improve the ecb's analytical infrastructure. on transparency, i would also like to welcome the committee's recognition that making the minutes of the ecb governing council meeting available to the public would not necessarily be advisable. such a measure would draw attention to individual positions when, in a euro area of 15 and very soon 16 countries, what counts is the position of the collegial decision-maker, the governing council, the college. it could also lead to pressures on governing council members to abandon their necessarily euro area perspective when taking monetary policy decisions. as already emphasised on previous occasions, i see the introductory statement i present on behalf of the governing council at the monthly press conference as an equivalent to what other central banks call summary minutes. together with the ensuing question-and-answer session, the introductory statement provides in real time a comprehensive overview by the governing council of the current monetary policy stance. this communication instrument has served us well in guiding financial-market expectations. in the field of fiscal policies, the ecb shares the view expressed that all member states must fully respect the stability and growth pact. a renewed increase in the euro-area aggregate fiscal deficit ratio is projected for 2008. there is a clear risk that some countries will not comply with the provisions of the preventive arm of the stability and growth pact. achieving sound and sustainable budgetary positions and on this basis allowing the free operation of automatic stabilizers is the best contribution we trust fiscal policy can make to macroeconomic stability. the draft resolution also refers to the risks posed by economic differentials across euro area countries, which to some extent reflect structural rigidities and/or inappropriate national policies. it goes without saying that economic divergences across euro area countries cannot be addressed by monetary policy. in order to avoid a protracted period of either low growth and high unemployment or overheating, as a country response to asymmetric shocks, reforms to enhance the resilience to such shocks should be undertaken at the national level. these include well-designed structural reforms to enhance competition, increase productivity and foster labour market flexibility. let me emphasize again that there is a need for lucid monitoring of national competitiveness developments including unit labour costs as recouping ex post loss of competitiveness is a difficult exercise. in this regard we support parliament's call for responsible wages and price policies. let me now turn to the issues highlighted by the financial-market correction for crisis prevention and crisis management, which also figures prominently in parliament's analysis. as regards crisis prevention, the market correction highlighted issues for both supervisors and central banks. supervisors should make further efforts to reinforce cooperation and exchange of information on a cross-border basis. it is of crucial importance to further exploit the potential of the lamfalussy framework. the ecofin council has agreed on certain measures to that end, and attention should now shift towards implementing those guidelines. the market correction, in our view, has not provided any convincing evidence for an overhaul of the current supervisory framework, for example through the setting-up of a new authority for eu supervision. central banks, including the ecb, have to a great extent been effective in identifying the weaknesses and risks to the financial system that materialised as the turmoil unfolded. i will not elaborate on that. looking for the lessons for crisis management, the main issue that emerged during the turmoil concerns the need for a smooth flow of information between central banks and supervisors during the unfolding of a crisis. central banks may need supervisory information for the effective performance of their functions in the management of the crisis. this applies to the eurosystem as it applies to all central banks. supervisors from their side may benefit from central bank information. therefore, the envisaged strengthening of the eu legal basis for information exchange between central banks and supervisors is very strongly supported by the ecb. let me conclude with some remarks concerning the integration of europe's payment systems. we noted with satisfaction the positive assessments in the draft resolution about sepa and target2. as regards the eurosystem's target2-securities initiative, the governing council will decide in the coming weeks on the continuation of the t2s project. it is important to note that all major csds have responded positively to our initiative.
president of the eurogroup and member of the european council. - mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating your rapporteur on the quality of his work. it is a report of high quality, the content of which reflects the essence of what was to be said. i am pleased to note that the work of your committee and the report of your rapporteur show a broad consistency between the views of your parliament and the opinions expressed on many occasions by the eurogroup, which i have the honour of chairing. this identity of views, this broad convergence of opinions, concerns in particular the activity and activities of the central bank, which, as always, is crumbling under the compliments of your assembly and the governments i represent here. this is particularly important when we consider the many criticisms which have been levelled at the central bank in recent weeks and months, when it was asked to put in place a whole arsenal in the context of the financial crisis which was then sweeping the world. the european central bank, which was criticised for being overly active at first, was pleased to note that all other major monetary authorities had followed the instruments and methods used by the central bank. we also agree with the rapporteur when he urges us, the eurogroup, the ecofin council in general and our bank, to draw the right financial consequences from the crises we have seen, particularly in terms of market surveillance and the transparency we will need to add to the mechanisms we currently have. the fight against inflation is the main concern of our citizens. at present, all the surveys show that the loss of purchasing power and the fear of the risks of losing purchasing power are still in the minds of the people, and therefore the bank is fully within its rights and obligations to do everything possible to ensure price stability, which is the objective assigned to the central bank by the maastricht treaty. i would add that we should not be inclined to this simple idea that the central bank, which is the monetary authority, is the only one responsible for price stability and the fight against inflation. inflation and the fight against inflation are also a concern and an obligation for the governments of the euro area, which, in addition to the monetary policy part of the central bank, must also put in place the right policies to underpin price stability. the governments of the eurogroup have therefore committed themselves first of all to doing everything possible to ensure that, within the framework of the wage moderation we need, we do not slip up in wages and in the public sector. we are therefore firmly determined to do everything possible to avoid unnecessary increases in indirect taxation; this is true for vat as well as for excise duties. we have firmly committed ourselves to doing everything possible to ensure that the prices administered are no longer based on common sense. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to point out once again that central bank independence is a founding principle of economic and monetary union, that central bank independence is part of the founding pact of economic and monetary union, that no government during the work leading up to the constitutional treaty and then the reform treaty of lisbon proposed even a minor change to the general mandate of the central bank, which is focused on price stability. i therefore believe that we must one day put an end to a fruitless, futile debate which has nothing to do with the reality of the things we have experienced. this does not exclude the possibility that we may be entitled to criticise the bank and to praise and advise its good work, but there is no question of affecting the independence of the central bank. i would like to say that we should not overburden monetary policy with responsibilities. the treaty assigns the objective of price stability to the central bank; we must not add multiple economic objectives to the mandate of the central bank but respect the rule of consistency, which obliges us not to want the bank to be involved in pursuing too many political objectives. it has an instrument for acting, and that is monetary policy; she does it with elegance and determination. as regards exchange rate policy, mr president, i have noted a slight ambiguity in mr schmidt's report, because it gives the impression that exchange rate policy is the sole, if not exclusive, responsibility of the central bank. i am in favour of the central bank playing a leading role in all matters relating to exchange rates, but i would like to stress to you the provisions of the treaty which give the bank and governments a shared competence in exchange rate policy. for the rest, on exchange rate policy, monetary policy and structural policies, we are in a regular, rich dialogue with the bank, nourished by the contributions of all. in the context of this dialogue, which has been repeated so often, president trichet and i went to china last november to discuss exchange rate policy with the chinese authorities and we will repeat this exercise in the second half of this year. a slight ambiguity i noted in your committee's report concerns the external representation of the euro area; again, contrary to what the report suggests, the central bank is not alone competent to take the necessary measures to strengthen the international presence of the euro area. again, we are in the area of shared competence.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the european union is a global player in the world economy. on 2 june, in frankfurt am main, the city where the deutsche mark and the euro were introduced, we celebrated the tenth anniversary of the european economic and monetary union. it is to the credit of the ecb that the euro has established itself internationally and that price stability has never been abandoned as its primary objective. it was consistent that the ecb had used its sharpest weapon a few days ago to influence the key interest rate and raise it by a quarter of a percent. the aim was and is to contain the risks of inflation caused by the high cost of living, by the exploding prices of petrol and oil. this time the ecb announced its measures weeks in advance. it acted differently last year, in a matter of hours, massively and effectively. the approach was expressly welcomed in the olle schmidt report - an excellent report on which we have worked well together. in the second half of 2007, the real estate market collapsed, leaving banks and insurance companies that had been affected by the subprime crisis in a precarious position. in a very short time, the ecb provided sufficient financial resources to prevent a crossborder collapse. this speed and efficiency is a testament to the strength of the action, which is based on competence and on the growing confidence in its board. in general, i consider the ecb's decisions to be transparent, based on a good flow of information and open objectives. in the monetary dialogue, the ecb regularly reports to us, the economic and monetary committee, on its decisions on fiscal policy. the publication of minutes of bureau meetings, as is often requested, is not in my view very effective. national interference must be prevented. the full independence must be guaranteed. normally, mr president, we have many opportunities to criticize, but today i have the opportunity to express my particular praise to those in whose hands business and citizens are in good hands, namely president trichet and your institution, the ecb in frankfurt am main, and of course mr juncker.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to add my voice to the compliment of those who have spoken before. the ecb has indeed acted quickly and competently at the beginning of the financial crisis, and without that determination the financial crisis would probably have turned out much worse. it is not over yet, but its determination has not only given it credibility, but it has become a kind of model for competent central banking and a kind of model for other central banks. the most difficult phase, i fear, is yet to come for the central bank. the next 18 months will be the real test of the bank's credibility. i hope so! we have galloping oil and commodity prices, we have runaway food price trends, and we have inflation. president trichet has spoken of 4% in the euro area, in some member states it is almost 6%, and we have an incredibly strong euro. the danger of stagflation is therefore very real. the point is to make sure that we actually eliminate this danger early on. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial system is in a position to meet the needs of the world economy. when germany was in stagflation several decades ago, chancellor schmidt said: 'i prefer 5% inflation to 5% unemployment.' it was thus in direct opposition to the bundesbank. it has turned out that the bundesbank's policy of fighting inflation immediately and decisively was the right one. and germany has emerged from stagflation earlier than many other countries. i'm not here to advise the central bank. she knows best what she has to do. i have three wishes. two of them have already been answered. i would like the dialogue between the central bank and the eurogroup and the president of the eurogroup, mr juncker, to proceed without any tension. i think that's the case now. i would like to see cooperation not only between central banks but also between the central bank and the supervisory authorities. that too has been hinted at. finally, i would like to know more about the decisionmaking process, since i have received a negative reply from president trichet. we do not want to know names, but we do want to know whether it was a close decision, whether it was a clear decision and whether there was much or little discussion.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in view of the current debate, the ecb is a kind of rock in the sand. that's good. the question of price stability must, of course, be at the top of the economic agenda. if this continues to be the case, mr president, it can only be a positive thing. we have noted the average inflation rates of 4% in the euro area, and in some eurozone countries they are even higher, such as 5.8% in belgium and 5.1% in spain. this is bad news. this is why the signal the decision of the european central bank that was broadcast this week was important. we must simply take note, even here in the house, that the ecb cannot of course do anything against inflationary oil prices. but the secondary effects that will arise in the euro area, such as higher wages - that is the demands of the trade unions - and at the same time higher prices - which then flow through the companies - are dangerous and ultimately lead to a vicious circle. let me make two further comments on the subject of the politicization of the european central bank. we have seen this repeatedly in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and this debate has also shown it. the question of transparency in decision-making processes, for example, is already a signal in this direction, the desire to know more and more and to influence decision-making processes more and more. i am careful about that. i believe that the bank must decide for itself and of course it does so in dialogue with parliament and with the representatives of the euro area. but an explanation for decisions goes too far. we should - and this will certainly play a role in the next round - think very clearly again about whether we can continue this policy in the enlargement of the euro area. slovakia was a warning sign for me. we should be less political and more critical in future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i should like to say a few words about the lambert report on the implementation of the regulation, which deals with the details of the coordination of social security systems. this regulation is intended - as the rapporteur has said - to coordinate, not to harmonize, for which we in the eu have no legal basis at all. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. we do not think that coordination requires the commission to be empowered to set up and manage its own neutral central database to ensure that benefits are paid out to citizens quickly. this is an original task of the member states, which have already done so and which must now also appoint a liaison office for this purpose. it is also more appropriate and more local for citizens seeking advice to turn to the authorities of their member state rather than to a distant anonymous database of the commission. i would therefore like to expressly disagree with the commissioner on this point. we also do not think it is appropriate that every disabled insured person should be entitled to travel and subsistence expenses for an accompanying person. the idea of covering the travel costs of an accompanying person is rather to link up with the concept of severe disability, which is also well defined in most member states. we also believe that an unemployed person who has breached the obligations in the country of employment, in particular by not taking all the steps required to find work, should not be able to claim benefits in the country of residence, as if he had always behaved honestly. it's not right. the other three amendments tabled by my group deal with time limits which we consider to be sufficient, six months being the unambiguous time limit. they should not vary between 12 and 18 months.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i would like to make a few comments on this report, which is, of course, ultimately a contribution to the process of deregulation and de bureaucratisation. this report includes a reporting obligation on the part of the commission to parliament, a reporting obligation to ensure that a success report, hopefully a success report, is given annually as this process of de-bureaucratisation and deregulation progresses. but we as a parliament can play a much greater part in this process. i therefore hope and wish that, in addition to this reporting obligation of the commission, we ourselves will also be very actively and much more strongly involved in this process, for example in the committee work. the economic committee in particular can play a leading role in this, also in dialogue with commissioner verheugen and the stoiber group. i would like to take this opportunity to emphasize that.
president of the afco commission. there is no single reason to reject this report. if mr gollnisch had wanted to make his arguments, he could have come to the committee, but he was not there. we have discussed all this and i would like to point out to the honourable members that this parliament will grow from 626 to 785 and 732 to 751 in the near future, following the great enlargement, and that the reform of parliament will of course also require adjustments to the size of the political groups. we have always done so in the past, and we will do so now. the amendments which we have tabled are also compromise amendments. that is why, mr president, i am in favour of voting today and not postponing the debate again. it's not gonna get any better than this.
in writing. the greens/efa group has always supported the need for a permanent seat for the european union on the united nations security council, as set out in the lambsdorff report. our group does not recognise the 'priority' status given to the initiative known as the 'overarching process' which provides for an increase in the number of permanent members at national level and which for us should be regarded as just one initiative among others.
in writing. - i voted against this report because the eu is not competent in this area. it is not in the interests of legal clarity, nor does it bring europe closer to the citizens, for parliament to express its views in own-initiative reports on matters which do not fall within the eu's regulatory competence.
mr president of the council, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen! the public signing of the galileo programme text underlines the importance we attach to the european satellite navigation programmes egnos and galileo. the regulation signed today is an excellent example of how much can be achieved only by working together within the european union and not by individual member states alone. with egnos and galileo, the european union can and will build a european alternative and complement to other systems. at the same time, we are strengthening the competitiveness of our industry in key future technologies. galileo will consist of a network of 30 satellites and a ground control infrastructure. the text of the regulation which we are signing today is the result of negotiations between the european institutions which were successfully concluded at first reading. the institutions found solutions to enable such a highly complex technical system to be set up, notably through community funding of eur 3.4 billion. this will allow galileo to be launched by 2013 at the latest. as president of the european parliament, i would like to express my sincere thanks to the chairman of the committee on industry, research and energy, angelika niebler, and to the rapporteur of the european parliament, etelka barsi-pataky, for their successful work, and to the slovenian presidency for its important contribution to this important dossier for the future. (applause from the centre) with this public signing, i also want to underline that we will continue to work hard and with commitment to achieve concrete results for our citizens. thank you very much for being here, and thank you very much for your attention. i would now like to ask mr jean-pierre jouyet to speak on behalf of the council. (applause from the centre)
acting president of the council. - mr president, mr hans-gert pöttering, madam commissioner, mr benita, ladies and gentlemen, it will now be possible to know one's position in space and time with the satellite radio navigation system launched by the european union and the european space agency. and i would like to pay tribute, as you have done, mr president, to the slovenian presidency, which has brilliantly concluded this difficult agreement. i would also like to pay tribute to mrs niebler, the president of the commission, your rapporteur and the officials of the european parliament who have made it possible to adopt this regulation. this is a very important step which has been taken today with the adoption of the galileo regulation. it will enable the deployment of the global satellite positioning system, with public funds. as president pöttering has said, this system is based on a constellation of 30 satellites and ground stations and will provide information on their position to users in many sectors. it is therefore an illustration of europe in action for many of our fellow citizens. it not only ensures our independence by providing a signal which can replace the american gps signal, especially in the event of interruption, but it also goes much further, because it will provide services which gps cannot offer today: the location of people in distress; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. galileo will therefore bring very practical results in the daily lives of our citizens. the european commission, madam commissioner, and the european space agency have launched the process of selecting the companies that will participate in the deployment of the various lots allocated to implement this system, and the establishment of galileo is of course of major importance also for the competitiveness of european industry. in total, the management of this galileo programme will be placed under the political control of your parliament and the council. the french presidency, rest assured, is determined to work very closely with the european parliament and proposes that the interinstitutional group 'galileo', the gip, which brings together the three european institutions - the commission, parliament and council - meet as soon as possible in order to examine the conditions for the implementation of this programme which is of great importance for the whole of the european union.
i thank you very much, mr jouyet. we are now going to sign the galileo regulation together, mr jouyet and i, and i would ask commissioner ferrero-waldner, the chairman of the committee on industry, angelika niebler, and the rapporteur, etelka barsi-pataky, to be present in the front row. (the galileo regulation was signed) (applause from the centre)
acting president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, china is a strategic partner of the european union. we have strong relations, particularly in the political and commercial spheres; i would remind you that the european union is china's largest trading partner. china's participation at international level, as well as the resolution of major regional and global issues, are of great interest to the european union. the union also aims to encourage development and reform in china for the benefit not only of that country but also, given its size, of the whole planet, and it is in this context that we have followed with great concern the consequences of the earthquake which occurred last may in the province of sichuan and measured the scale of this disaster, which has left more than 70 000 dead, 18 000 missing and whose final toll is expected to exceed, alas, 80 000 dead. more than 5 million people are also homeless. the earthquake and its serious human and material losses mobilized the entire chinese state apparatus for several weeks and international opinion took note of the efforts made by china to respond to the disaster in a quick and effective manner. the european union responded swiftly with humanitarian aid; the community civil protection mechanism was immediately activated on 13 may in order to coordinate the in-kind contributions of the member states; assistance of €25 million provided by the european union, including the member states, of which €2.2 million was provided by the commission was channelled through the red cross. in general, we believe that china has been effective in its relief efforts and, with the help of the international community, is making considerable efforts to mitigate the consequences of the disaster. the chinese authorities have shown an openness towards foreign aid and media coverage of this event; we therefore pay tribute to them for their outstanding efforts in the field of relief and reconstruction. on the other hand, as you know, we have all been following with attention and concern the events in tibet and we are keeping a close watch on developments in the region. in the statement made on behalf of the european union by the slovenian presidency on 17 march, the european union expressed its deep concern at the reports of unrest in tibet and expressed its deepest sympathy and condolences to the victims and their families. it called on all parties to show restraint and urged the chinese authorities to refrain from using force but also called on the protesters to renounce violence. in our messages to the chinese authorities we have asked for a dialogue with the dalai lama to discuss essential issues such as the preservation of tibetan culture, religion and traditions. we have also urged that information be transparent and that the media, diplomats, tourists and un agencies be allowed free access to tibet. tibet has been open to tourists since mid-june. we also welcomed the informal meeting held on 4 may between the chinese authorities and the envoys of the dalai lama; we believe this is a step in the right direction and we have expressed the hope that it will lead to a new round of constructive dialogue with the dalai lama. the chinese authorities and the representatives of the dalai lama met again on 1, 2 and 3 july in beijing. it is of course too early to comment on this new session of dialogue, but we hope that both sides will make constructive progress together. the chinese side confirmed that the central government in beijing and the representative of the dalai lama had agreed to continue their contacts and consultations; it also expressed the hope that tibet could be opened to journalists and others in the near future, after public order had been restored in the province. as regards attendance at the opening ceremony, each member state shall decide at what level it will be represented. let me say in this connection that china has stressed on several occasions that it will give a warm welcome to all the leaders of the european union. after consulting all his counterparts in the european council, the president of the republic announced his intention to take part in the opening ceremony in his dual capacity as president of the french republic and president of the council. that is what i wanted to say to you today, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am convinced that strategic eu-china relations are vital for the european union, and i believe they are for china too, as well as for the rest of the world. looking back, this spring has been a test for eu-china relations. the unrest in tibet led to widespread protests in europe and to the disruption of the olympic torch relay in several european capitals. the latter events in turn led to a surge of nationalist feeling in china and to anti-europe feelings, which translated into boycott campaigns against european interests in china. as a result, concern was rising about the widening gap between chinese and european public opinions and perceptions of each other. these developments were, fortunately, rather short-lived. two events were instrumental in reversing the emerging trend. one was the commission visit to beijing on 24-26 april, in which i participated with president barroso. the other was the consequence of the terrible earthquake which affected the province of sichuan in may. let me take each of those in turn. first, our visit at the end of april focused on sustainable development and climate change but also provided an opportunity to raise eu concerns about the situation in tibet directly with the chinese leadership. you will remember that, when i spoke in this house on 26 march, i called for a restart of talks between the representatives of the dalai lama and the chinese government. during the talks in april, president hu jintao announced to us that china would shortly resume talks with the representatives of the dalai lama. this had been a key request of the european union. this outcome of our visit to beijing proved that the commission’s consistent approach of constructive engagement with china brought tangible results and was thus the right approach. the other event that marked a turning point in china’s relations with the rest of the world was, as has already been said by the president-in-office of the council, the earthquake in sichuan. the scale of the human catastrophe provoked by the earthquake and the suffering of the people were enormous: 70 000 persons were reported killed and up to 10 million were displaced. this gave rise to an outpouring of international sympathy and support for the victims. more importantly, the chinese government reacted in a swift and well-coordinated way on the earthquake, deploying over 130 000 soldiers for the rescue and allowing the press free access to the affected areas. this reaction cast a more positive light on modern china. the president-in-office of the council has already mentioned what we as the european union as a whole have been donating, and therefore i do not need to say anything about it. let me immediately go to the situation as it is today. three events between now and the end of the year will have a crucial impact on eu-china relations from the chinese point of view, and i think it is the same for us: the beijing olympics, the asem summit which will take place in beijing on 24-25 october, and the eu-china summit due to take place on 1 december in france. during this time the chinese leadership will be particularly sensitive to messages coming from abroad. now, more than ever, we need to avoid any misunderstandings and continue our policy of constructive engagement. the situation in tibet will continue to focus attention during these months. today we can say that we are back to a pre-14 march situation, because the talks between the chinese government and the representatives of the dalai lama resumed in early may and a new round of talks took place last week; but i agree that we do not yet have a full assessment. we will continue to encourage both sides to continue their talks in a fruitful and result-oriented way. last month, on 24 june, china also took a positive step by reopening access for foreign tourists to tibet. although controlled visits by diplomats and foreign journalists have been taking place since march, we continue to urge them for full access for foreign journalists. with regard to the olympic games, we all hope that there will be a chance for china and the world to come closer together. we wish china success in this. the asem summit in october, in which i will participate, will be a good opportunity to underline our relations with china and, in doing this, to bring forward important global issues. in conclusion, i hope that, at our next eu-china summit in particular, we can make concrete progress on a number of issues of mutual importance, such as climate change, ongoing negotiations to conclude an eu-china partnership and cooperation agreement, human rights, and economic and trade issues. those are our goals between now and 1 december. i think it is vital that the eu-china strategic partnership continues to be developed in a steady way, one which also takes into consideration the concerns that exist.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, my group would like to refer to the european parliament's resolution of 22 may this year, adopted by a large majority, on the natural disaster in china and the situation in tibet. the epp-ed group welcomes the chinese government's strong commitment to the reconstruction of the areas affected by the earthquake. but we also expect the chinese government to ensure that the new houses and buildings are built in any case earthquake-resistant, because we have to remember that unfortunately, due to lack of trees, many schools have collapsed and many students have died. we expect this matter to be clarified and those responsible to be held to account. the epp-ed group is deeply concerned that the chinese government has not used the hosting of the olympic games to improve the respect for universal human rights in china. on the contrary! the intimidation of citizens and the restriction of media representatives before the olympic games seem to be on the increase. we therefore call on the chinese government to establish universal civil rights, in particular freedom of the press, at the olympic games and to guarantee them thereafter. (applause from the centre) the european parliament has also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. we would not accept that the chinese government should use these talks merely to get over the olympic games and then to make them fail. we expect positive results for cultural autonomy and human rights in tibet! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the world was in sympathy with the victims of the severe earthquake in china on may 12. there was considerable international aid from outside, but inside, differences were being made. the anti-separatist work should go hand in hand with disaster relief. it is not a question of being a member of a majority or a minority. you have to get help. you can't celebrate differences. such calls must stop. china is well advised to finally open up. this includes the free access of foreign observers and journalists to all regions of china. the only uncensored television station in china, ntdtv, must be allowed to resume broadcasting immediately. the european parliament has already made a number of recommendations to the heads of state or government, and many of them have refused to attend the opening ceremony of the olympic games. we support the position of angela merkel of germany, british prime minister brown, our president pöttering and other personalities to stay away from the ceremony on 8 august. the french president sarkozy has said that he wants to make his position dependent on the outcome of the negotiations between the chinese and the representatives of the dalai lama. there are no negotiating successes, and that will remain so. consequently, he must remain in paris. (applause from the centre) before the games, i would like to remind you of the plight of the tibetans. more than 200 dead after the 14 march riots, 5,000 in captivity, mostly without court orders, thousands injured by physical violence as a result of patriotic re-education. i would like to make a few comments on the report by mr de gucht. (applause from the green group)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. we must recognize that the enlargements of the european union to date have been major political and economic successes. this is certain. the commissioner, in the cases of romania and bulgaria, we will certainly have to have separate discussions here in the coming weeks, but in general the statement i have made here applies. we must also make it clear that we will honour the promises we have made to the countries with which we are negotiating, namely that the negotiations will continue, that a country which has candidate status will indeed have candidate status. the thessaloniki promises must also be kept. at the same time, we must make it clear that this is not automatic, but that each country must fulfil the conditions - the copenhagen criteria - necessary for membership to work, both within the countries and for the european union as a whole. but at the same time we must also see that with 27 countries now - and possibly with croatia soon - with 28 countries, we have to consider whether a phase of consolidation is not also necessary here, so that things can really work within the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the treaty of lisbon was the condition for the last enlargement, not the preparation for the next. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. that too must be very clear and precise. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we do not want the european union to be a free trade area, but a political entity capable of acting. this means that our capacity for internal reform is as much a condition as other countries have their internal reform as a condition for membership. deepening and widening is the classic term for this. at the same time, we must also see that the european perspective - for example in the western balkans, but also towards countries like ukraine and others - is crucial for the internal reform process in these countries to succeed towards more democracy and the rule of law, and they look more towards brussels than in other directions. but that also means, under the conditions i have outlined earlier, that this will not in all cases lead to full membership tomorrow, because these countries are not ready and the union is not ready. in many cases this will not be possible. that is why we need new instruments between full membership and the neighbourhood policy, so that the people in these countries do not just hope for a european perspective, but actually see progress already: free trade areas, schengen and other things. we need instruments such as the european economic area with the efta countries, where the countries can take 30, 50 or 70% of the acquis communautaire on board. this means that the negotiations on full membership can be very short. sweden, austria and finland have followed this path. countries like switzerland, iceland and norway have taken a different path. but who knows today that norway is in schengen and that switzerland is contributing to the structural policies in the new member states. this means that we can develop very close relations and then it has to be determined in each individual case whether this is a permanent stage or an intermediate stage on the way to full membership, as both sides wish. this means that even in the western balkans - in croatia, for example - this would be utter nonsense - countries where it takes longer, if they want to, could perceive this intermediate station as a tool to use. it must be open to them. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that on this basis we should be able to strengthen the instrument of the european perspective between membership and neighbourhood policy and thus extend the area of stability, peace and freedom in europe without at the same time endangering the european union's ability to develop.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i also thank elmar brok for having taken the initiative of bringing this report to trial. i think there has been a change of strategy between the working document and this report, and that is a good thing. the enlargements to date have been a success for the community as a whole, although criticism is warranted here and there. that's good too. however, the enlargement process is not complete. i would like to mention the western balkans, as many speakers have done, which must not be marginalized in a black hole surrounded by the member states of the union. it's in our best interest. we need a clear enlargement strategy which does not change according to the situation. the eu must be a reliable and trustworthy partner. this includes our own willingness to reform. if this is now being called into question again, then a self-critical analysis is necessary. it is negligent and wrong to attribute every sign of euroscepticism to the enlargement and fatigue of the past. let us therefore wake up! let us ensure a balanced economic, social and environmental development and let us communicate the economic, cultural and historical enrichment that enlargement brings. let us also say what it would cost if it were to burn again on our borders or within europe! clear goals and their unrestricted open discussion builds trust. this means that the union will honour its commitments, and i expect that from the adoption of this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. the european union can only fulfil its role as a reliable and stable partner in the world if it remains active and pursues a differentiated strategy that meets the specific needs of each country. we cannot accept all our neighbours as members and are therefore obliged to offer them an interesting and worthwhile alternative in their own interest. we must develop an efficient neighbourhood policy worthy of the name. the opening up of our educational, cultural and youth programmes and the establishment of a special economic area are examples of this. the options set out in mr brok's excellent report must therefore be considered and implemented as soon as possible. only in this way can stability, peace, respect for human rights and economic reforms be promoted in our neighbouring countries. but the situation is different in the countries of the western balkans, which have long had a clear prospect of accession. a glance at the map is enough to make it clear that they are in the middle of the european union, that is, surrounded on all sides by eu member states. our policy there is based on steps that can be traced. one country is already negotiating its accession to the eu, others have signed the stabilisation and association agreement with the eu, all except kosovo. there, our policy is the litmus test of our foreign policy credibility and the guarantee of lasting peace and stability in the eu. i do not like it when turkey and croatia are always mentioned in the same breath. the conditions and the background are completely different and therefore one should also pay attention to this. croatia is the first country in the western balkans to be able to conclude accession negotiations in 2009. the eu should send a signal by swiftly joining that macedonia, albania, montenegro, bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and kosovo see the value of the necessary and often painful reforms in society, the judiciary and the economy. but the responsibility for the future accession of these countries lies primarily in the hands of the politicians there. and they must be held accountable by their own electorate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that the european enlargement policy is a great success story. the eu has succeeded in creating a continent of peace, democracy and prosperity within fifty years. what i find striking in this report on the eu's enlargement strategy is that the eu's relations with non-eu countries also find their place. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. many points, although very interesting and acceptable in their content, do not belong in an enlargement report but rather in an enp report. i am thinking, for example, of the union for the mediterranean or the union for the black sea. the eu's enlargement policy should be clearly separated from the european neighbourhood policy. i therefore regret that the report's statements are sometimes very vague and sometimes even confusing, leaving room for various interpretations.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! first of all, i would like to thank the commission and the presidency of the council for the solidarity they have shown with regard to the german tourists in turkey. we have a whole range of issues where we have to find a balance, from the mediterranean union - which is an important step forward if it is supported by the community as a whole and not a priority for certain countries from certain regions - to the swedish-polish proposal, to the proposal for a black sea union. these are all paths which we must take together as a community, but we must also make it clear that some of these paths have the perspective of membership, while others do not. the statement by the polish foreign minister, mr sikorski, that some are europe's neighbours and others are european neighbours, is perhaps an indication that it is of equal importance, but that there are differences in the method and in the objectives. but if we have the room for manoeuvre - bilateral relations, interim solutions of a multilateral nature or permanent solutions between neighbourhood policy and full membership - and therefore have a whole range of instruments at our disposal, we should consider how we can safeguard this balance, which the commissioner mentioned, in the long term, also politically and administratively, in order to preserve the european union's ability to develop and the european perspective and stability in such countries. let me say this to some of the critics of the european union who have spoken here: what european union is this? the european union we have, which is the greatest success story for peace, freedom and prosperity in the history of this continent! we want to continue this project and expand it as much as possible to further achieve this balance of performance and this goal and to include more countries. that's what this is about! that is why we must say, when we talk about the western balkans: if we have a government in serbia yesterday or this week saying 'we want to look to brussels, to europe', we should accept this offer and develop this perspective to continue to shape our continent peacefully in order to have lasting peace in a region that has been the source of unrest for 150 years.
acting president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, mr louis michel, ladies and gentlemen, the recent presidential elections in zimbabwe have re-elected robert mugabe as president of his country for another five years. the second round of voting took place after the withdrawal of the only other candidate, mr morgan tsvangirai, which put mr mugabe in a position to obtain 85% of the votes cast. the election was called a sham democracy by many heads of state, including african heads of state, and by the secretary general of the united nations, who considered it illegitimate. immediately after taking the oath of office, mr mugabe travelled to sharm el sheikh, where the african union summit was held on 30 june and 1 july. at the summit, nigeria launched a lively discussion on elections. a resolution was adopted expressing deep concern at the situation in zimbabwe. the critical reports by election observers, whether sadc, the african union and the pan-african parliament, as well as the violence and loss of life were highlighted. the resolution also encourages mr mugabe and mr tsvangirai to engage in dialogue in the interests of the zimbabwean people, to establish a government of national unity and to support the sadc mediation mission. in the face of these developments, the international community is mobilizing. the united states has submitted a resolution to the un security council. the resolution calls for the application of sanctions against the zimbabwean authorities: an arms embargo, asset freezes and travel bans, and contains in an annex a list of 14 individuals to be sanctioned, including mr mugabe and other political officials, most of whom are already on the european sanctions list adopted in 2002. canada has also strengthened the measures it has taken and the european council of 20 june declared itself ready to take further measures which will be discussed with commissioner louis michel on 22 july. the presidency of the european union strongly condemned the denial of democracy in the second round of voting on the day after the first, i.e. 29 june, and stressed in a new declaration on behalf of the union on 4 july that it would not accept the fait accompli resulting from the distorted vote on 27 june and that there could be no other solution than a transitional formula based on the results of the first round of voting. it is also important that africa has expressed its concern at a crisis of a regional dimension and that the efforts made by the african union, in particular, and sadc, should be supported and that the principles enshrined in the charter of the african union, in particular, should be respected. it would be good if the african union and the un were involved in this process, so that the sadc regional perspective is complemented by an african and international perspective. in its resolution, the african union also called on the states and parties to refrain from taking any measures that could harm the climate of dialogue. this is a signal to the european union in particular. the union will not refrain from preparing an enlargement of the list of persons responsible for violence who are subject to targeted sanctions by means of a visa ban or an asset freeze, and the union will also have to ensure that the exceptions to the visa ban are restricted and that new sanctions, particularly economic sanctions, are introduced, and, of course, the whole range of retaliatory measures will depend on the progress made in the negotiations. negotiations between the two parties should start as soon as possible. i think the commissioner will confirm that, even if their outcome is not fixed. in any case, we must base our decisions on the results of the first round of voting on 29 march, which is the most faithful expression of the will of the zimbabwean people, whereas the second round was a denial of democracy. any form of coalition can be a transitional measure towards new free, democratic and transparent elections, as was indicated by the candidate against mr mugabe. finally, i should like to mention that at their last meeting, which has just ended, the g8 members considered additional financial measures to target those responsible for violence in the last elections. there you go! we must therefore keep up this pressure unceasingly so that this unacceptable violation of the law will cease.
member of the commission. - mr president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be able to share with you, in this exchange of views, the prospects for the future and the ideas on the role we could play in supporting the efforts on all sides to find a way out of the crisis that is acceptable to all the main political partners, and above all a way out of the crisis that has the potential to last and that can open up a new era of prosperity for a country and a people who deserve it so much. i had the opportunity, shortly before this meeting began, to speak with mr ping, the chairman of the african union commission, and i also had the opportunity, about half an hour ago, to speak at some length with the opposition member, mr tsvangirai. so i have some fresh news which, of course, is not yet fully confirmed, but perhaps i can inform in a more precise and current way. first of all, of course, i want to express my deep concern about the situation. i have expressed my deep regret, and i have said this publicly before and after, that the second round of the presidential elections, as the minister said, took place despite the many calls from the international community, including calls from zimbabwe's african partners, for it to be postponed. the environment of extreme political violence, of systematic intimidation, has obviously tarnished this election and robbed it of all legitimacy and credibility. i have publicly repeated, as has the presidency of the european union, that in the circumstances in which the second round of voting took place, there is absolutely no question of recognising any legitimacy for the president who emerged from this vote. it is a usurped victory, we must say and repeat, far removed from the spirit of democratic rebirth that is driving africa today. the african union summit in egypt attended by president mugabe was a very intense and tense political debate among african leaders, a debate that many elsewhere described as unprecedented. the african union resolution is critical of him and calls on him to seek a political agreement with mdc leader morgan tsvangirai to form a national unity government. the african union further requested sadc to continue its facilitation work towards a political agreement. we could certainly consider this resolution to be insufficient. we could particularly criticise the fact that the african union has refrained from making a clear statement on the legitimacy or otherwise of president mugabe, but it must be acknowledged that in the present circumstances this resolution is a substantial achievement. of course, it's not done. it is important that the african union and sadc demonstrate their commitment to a political solution in concrete terms. in this respect, the european union and other international actors have made their expectations clear. this political agreement can only be reached on the basis of the results of the first round, which reflected the free and democratic expression of the zimbabwean people. the results of the second round cannot be considered as the starting point for mediation or negotiation. in other words, we believe that the political solution will be a coalition government led by mr tsvangirai as prime minister with the widest powers and also relying on the majority he holds in parliament. so far, all options are open for the european union. on the one hand, we are prepared to support the efforts of sadc and the african union, and we expect tangible progress in the next two weeks. if there is a constructive political agreement that reflects the results of the first round, we are of course prepared, as we have said, to gradually re-engage in zimbabwe. we are ready to begin immediately. i would remind you that in the programming of the tenth european development fund i made sure that the work was done as if there had been a democratic normalisation in zimbabwe, so as to avoid punishing the zimbabwean people for the dramatic situation in which they find themselves. now, as regards the two conversations i have just had this afternoon in the run-up to the meeting i had in parliament. first, with mr ping. what's the matter? the problem today is that everyone agrees, at the level of the african union, to advocate a negotiation between mr mugabe and mr tsvangirai, with the obvious founding principles that the one who should lead the government is the leader of the opposition, mr tsvangirai, that this government should be based possibly on a coalition in which mr tsvangirai's party, which has the majority in parliament, will obviously have the leading place and that this government should have the full powers, the most invested powers, the most extensive powers in terms of executive decisions. so, at this point, i think you know that this approach seems to be in dispute. it is all the more complicated because mr tsvangirai has some doubts about the balanced nature of the mediation and clearly wants to give it a framework, an environment, a support, so to speak, which will guarantee it in terms of balance. i am not making a value judgment in saying this, i am simply stating the situation. for the time being, mr ping has assured me that the work - i would not say mediation, but the work, let us say, to prepare people for this development - is under way and that, normally, in the coming days a real perspective should emerge. i then had a rather long talk with mr tsvangirai. he confirmed that he was in favour of a government, including a government of national unity, but in which he obviously had the final say in the appointment of the people who would be part of it. it is basically - even if he did not say it in these terms - a little bit of a "kenya-style" scenario, although, and i share this view, we cannot compare the two situations. they're not the same at all. we pretend they're identical for convenience reasons, but very objectively, and men and women are different, but the situation is objectively different. so that's the first element. secondly, he wants to have a 'permanent negotiation team', that is to say, a team to conduct mediation, which should of course give him guarantees of balance. he would of course like this team of negotiators to be placed under the aegis of the african union and the united nations, as the minister has indicated. he seems to me reasonably optimistic; he believes that things are moving, that things are moving. he believes, of course, that the question of sanctions is obviously relevant, and he stressed the fact - but i think we are all convinced - that if there are sanctions, they must affect individuals and must not have a direct or indirect effect on the population, of course. i feel that the african union has fully assumed its responsibility, that it is actively engaged, that it is seeking a solution through mediation which takes into account, as the minister has stressed, the need to translate the result of the first round into executive power, because this is the only result that gives legitimacy to those who benefit from it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the situation in zimbabwe has reached an absolute low in political, economic and humanitarian terms. the people there are hostages of a regime that does not want to give up power because the clique around the president, military and intelligence chiefs wants to continue to enrich themselves on the country's resources. to do this, they fund militias and abuse police and military forces to terrorize the population across the country. the parliamentary elections on 29 march were not free and fair by sadc standards. the nationwide campaign of intimidation since then, with dozens of people dead, thousands injured and persecuted, has made it impossible for the winner of the first round, morgan tsvangirai, to send his voters to a ballot box where they had to fear being punished for their voting behavior. the head of the pan african parliament's electoral observation commission, marwick khumalo, and the sadc mission assessed the events of 27 june as follows: 'the atmosphere prevailing in the country did not give rise to the conduct of free, fair and credible elections. the elections did not represent the will of the people of zimbabwe. the point now is to develop a transitional scenario leading to a situation where a legitimate government and a legitimate president take office. the au and sadc have a crucial role to play here. unfortunately, the silent diplomacy of president mbeki over the years has achieved nothing. he also lacks the trust of both sides in the conflict, and he knows best why. but i am counting on the political parties in south africa to take the initiative themselves. my fellow south africans, you decide in your parliament to freeze the accounts and property of the profiteers of the mugabe regime in south africa. deny grace mugabe and others entry to cape town or sandton for shopping while people starve. solidarity with the three million zimbabweans in your country who will be returning home after the end of mugabe's rule, and thereby making way for millions of unemployed south africans. we have successfully pressured european companies to withdraw from zimbabwe because their activities were a stabilizing factor for the regime.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european security and defence policy is becoming more dangerous. this was reflected in the fact that for the first time a soldier was killed in an operation under european command. it was gilles polin who died this year in chad and darfur. so we have to ask ourselves whether there are any risks here that can be avoided. such risks arise from incorrect command structures, but such risks also arise when the necessary equipment is not available for certain operations. when we think about it, we take a broad approach to javier solana's security strategy, which concerns the armed forces, but also the critical infrastructure of the european union, the external borders of the european union and humanitarian operations. we are seeing here that there are continuing deficits in space-related matters, that there are deficits in satellite-based reconnaissance, in satellite-based telecommunications and also in satellite-based navigation. here, by working together, we can get the money better spent and also get more efficiency. first of all, as regards the information: we have the helios reconnaissance satellites, then the german ones from sar-lupe, then the italian ones from cosmo-skymed. it is absolutely essential that the images from these reconnaissance satellites should be made available to our satellite centre in torrejón during such missions. secondly, the musis project, a project for the future, which i am calling for in this report to be transferred to a suitable european framework. the question of satellite navigation, the galileo project, is also on the agenda. the report makes it very clear that this galileo project should also be available for military operations, for armed forces operations in the future, because our armed forces, which plan and carry out such operations, need this orientation from galileo. this brings me to telecommunications, which must also be satellite-based. here, closer cooperation can bring a lot. i also see a very great opportunity in the joint project on software defined radio, a common standard in the field of protected telecommunications, which could then also achieve the establishment of communications between the armed forces on the one hand, the police on the other and also the forces which must be available in the event of disaster. then we need space surveillance to protect our infrastructure in space, to protect our satellites. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. we need an early warning system for ballistic missiles and for telecommunications and electronic reconnaissance. a word on funding: we are already seeing a larger amount of money in the european budget being spent on security issues. firstly, for security research, secondly, gmes, the satellite monitoring system, which also has security aspects, and now galileo. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not paragraph 41 of the report states: 'stresses that under no circumstances should european space policy contribute to the militarisation and armament of space'. that's all right. but the whole report contradicts that very statement. the military measures are specifically mentioned. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and even for the galileo satellite project, which is clearly a civilian project, it is claimed that it is necessary and should be used for independent esdp missions. i am grateful to you, mr verheugen, for the clarification you have given me on the budget. the current treaty of the european union makes it quite clear that the eu budget cannot be used for military purposes. that is why we, the gue/ngl group, have tabled amendments which are in line with the legal situation, namely that space may only be used explicitly for civilian purposes and that galileo is an explicitly civilian project. it is interesting to see how contradictory the other amendments are. i found this most interesting in the greens' statement that 'they emphasise that galileo must remain a space project for civil purposes' and then 'they nevertheless recognise its importance for independent esdp operations'. that's the contradiction. we should be clear: the european union is militarising space. it is easy to point the finger at those who are also involved in the militarization of space. this is precisely the military use that should not be the case! the report as a whole, as it is formulated, is therefore wrong in its content, because it is precisely this militarisation that is being called for. we reject them. we want civilian use of space and we want galileo to remain a purely civilian project. now we have this shift to the taxpayers 3.4 billion euros with this new tender. they always say they want a system independent of the united states. now it's obvious that boeing is interested in this tender. so that doesn't seem to be true anymore either. so, the use of space is purely civilian, not militarized.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the debate has, as one would expect, led to the really critical points. and we should also be open about this, because we are dealing with realities here, not wishful thinking. the realities are quite simple: the classic images of conflict are not what they once were. the classical distinction between internal and external security is becoming increasingly blurred. not everyone in this room, for example, will share the american view that the fight against terrorism is a war. but most americans, for example, share this view. the technologies needed to maintain internal security, in particular in the fight against international crime and the fight against terrorism, and the technologies needed for defence are increasingly coming from the same research institutes and the same companies, and they are also increasingly serving the same purpose, only in different fields of application. we must be very clear that we must draw the line at another point, namely where the political decisions on the use of instruments are taken. i want to make this very clear: this is the contract. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. european military missions have long existed for conflict prevention, conflict resolution and conflict avoidance. i do not need to call a senior military officer as a witness, everyone here knows for himself that those who are responsible for the security of the european soldiers deployed on these missions are in urgent need of a precise and accurate picture of the situation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. we would be putting our own forces in extreme danger and reducing their effectiveness if we said that we as europeans cannot allow this to happen for reasons of principle. i would like to draw attention to these problems again, also to show that i am very aware of these problems. these are problems which apply both to our space policy and to the field of security research. i can only call on this parliament to see its role in ensuring that in the difficult situation we are in, where there is no longer just black and white but a large grey area, we move in a way that does not violate our values and our principles.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to take up what mr verheugen has said and at the same time reply to what mr pflüger and mr batten have said about what the citizens of the european union want. if we look at the eurobarometer surveys, we find that 70 to 80% of the citizens of the european union think that we need a common security and defence policy. this was particularly evident in the terrible events in the balkans. the 27 european countries spend 170 billion a year on defence, but they have not been able to stop the bloodshed in the balkans because there has not yet been a common european organisation for such operations. there were germans, french, english, italians, luxembourgers and others, but the ability to stop this bloodshed was not in the hands of the europeans, it was in the hands of the americans. and philippe morillon has seen and felt this very strongly. it is also completely wrong to talk about weapons in space here. what is the danger? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are protected. the real danger is that weapons will be stationed in space and will destroy our communications satellites, because there is the possibility that our entire social system could be disrupted with relatively little resources. imagine what would happen if the telecommunications satellites for television, for radio, for everything that makes up our society today, were destroyed. that is why i believe we are on the right track. including galileo. we shall probably see at the vote tomorrow that there has been a change of opinion in the european parliament. the first step was to ensure that galileo was financed from the european budget. it was our committee on budgets and ourselves who had a very strong influence on this and were able to get it through. the second step is that galileo is of course a civilian project, although it is different from the american system in its approach, but that galileo is also necessary, that it is available for use by our armed forces, for example, in the congo or in bosnia and herzegovina or in chad. i believe that tomorrow will be the day when we see that the majority opinion in the european parliament has changed.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i note that a vote on this proposal comes at a stage of discussion where perhaps all the avenues for reaching agreement at first reading have not been sufficiently explored. since the adoption of the draft report by the libe committee on 29 november 2007, the slovenian presidency has endeavoured to reach consensus among member states on a new wording of several aspects of the text in order to take account of the concerns expressed by the european parliament. nevertheless, there are differences with the report voted in the libe committee on three main points. first, the age limit for fingerprinting, then the diplomatic and consular immunity of the premises of external service providers and, finally, the conditions for using these external service providers, with the question of visa fees. on these three issues, the slovenian presidency proposed a new wording to take account of parliament's amendments. at the ministerial trilogue on 17 june, the issue of diplomatic and consular immunity for external service providers and its corollary, the transmission of data, was the main topic discussed, but no agreement was reached. the other subjects were not discussed. since then there has been no further debate in the libe committee. on the very sensitive subject of the age limit, the additional technical data provided to the rapporteur by the commission services confirm the technical reliability of fingerprints of children as young as six years old. nevertheless, the commission supports the proposal put forward by the presidency to collect the fingerprints of children between the ages of six and 12 years in the vis for verification purposes only and not for identification. and secondly, the commission is committed to carrying out the study requested by the european parliament. i would also point out that this solution seems to have been adopted for the proposal on passports, on which the european parliament is called upon to give its opinion. i therefore think it is appropriate to continue the discussion on this point, in particular to see whether this suggestion can be accepted by parliament. another issue is the use of external service providers. the conditions under which member states may have recourse to it as a last resort have been specified and a list of requirements to be met, inspired by the european parliament's amendments, has been drawn up. the debate on this subject must also be allowed to continue. i would like to point out that the adoption of this amendment to the common consular instructions is a prerequisite for the implementation of the visa information system. while the regulation and decision establishing the visa information system were adopted after agreement at first reading between parliament and the council, it is true that the referral of the current proposal to second reading risks jeopardising the start of the vis in may 2009. it is therefore necessary to reach a global compromise on this proposal in the short term. so i am here, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, to confirm the commission's commitment to continue negotiations and discussions, including of course with your rapporteur mrs ludford, and with the council, to reach this satisfactory compromise in the coming months. once again, it seems to me that this compromise is possible, provided that there is thorough work and sustained dialogue between the council and parliament, a dialogue which the commission will of course endeavour to help and encourage.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal to amend the common consular instructions is a must in an open borders eu. the report by sarah ludford is supported by my group in principle. i thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation which has enabled the european parliament's political groups to reach a broad agreement on a common text. the common consular instructions need to be redefined and adapted to the current situation. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system for the identification of visa applicants, based on the collection of biometric data such as photographs and fingerprints. in the past, it has been shown that some member states, including germany in particular, have interpreted and applied the existing provisions differently and therefore inconsistently. in 2000, for example, german consulates and embassies were instructed to reduce the bureaucracy involved in issuing visas and to opt for the issuing of visas in cases of doubt. due to the generous visa-issuing practice of the german embassy in kiev, the number of visas issued to ukrainian nationals increased from about 150 000 in 1999 to about 300 000 in 2001, which has led to a significant increase in illegal immigrants in the schengen area. it is therefore imperative that the schengen visa provision be applied in a uniform manner by all member states. my group is in favour of a compromise between the council and the european parliament, as proposed by commissioner barrot. our group agrees with the report by mrs ludford on almost all points. we cannot agree on the age limit for children and on fingerprinting. we support the commission's proposal to set an age limit for children at six years. in order to prevent the trafficking of children in the european union, it is particularly important for my group that this age limit be maintained.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i am in favour of introducing uniform conditions for issuing visas, for example to prevent so-called visa shopping. but i am fundamentally against the inclusion of biometric data in visa, especially for data on young children. this seems to me completely inappropriate. in addition, it is impossible to take fingerprints from a six-year-old without, for example, having a large-scale independent study on the use of fingerprints in children of this age and without having any knowledge of how long such fingerprints from children are actually kept. i think that on such a basis one cannot and must not make laws. i also see problems in the implementation of the proposed new regulation. all applicants are now required to appear in person at the consulate to have their fingerprints taken, including any children. this can be an unreasonable expense, especially for people from remote areas in large countries. it is likely to mean that financially weaker people, particularly families, will hardly be able to apply for a visa to travel to the european union. is this really the image the european union wants to convey to the outside world? the council and the commission are trying to counter this by relying on the private sector. external service providers should be authorised to receive visa applications including biometric data and to forward them to the appropriate consulates. the costs incurred in this respect are also to be borne by the applicant. but not enough! i think that the security and confidentiality of all the highly sensitive data cannot be guaranteed. it is therefore essential that outsourcing, which should be possible only under strict conditions, can only take place in diplomatically protected territory. i am in favour of the rapporteur's proposal.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, you had a debate on monday evening following the media reports that the italian authorities were taking fingerprints from people living in the nomadic camps. i naturally confirm the commission's position as set out by mr špidla on monday, which referred in particular to the letter i sent to the italian authorities on 3 july. during the debate, president schulz expressed the wish that i should inform the european parliament. on the other hand, with mr deprez here, i can say this before your libe committee - i have kept the bureau and the coordinators informed. and then yesterday, madam president, if i understand correctly, your conference of presidents wanted me to make a brief statement to keep them informed of the latest information i could give parliament. i would like to remind you briefly of the commission's approach, which is obviously very vigilant in dealing with these problems. i met mr. ronchi on the 26th of may. i asked the italian government for clarification on the purpose and proportionality of the measures on 3 july. we had a first meeting with mr maroni in cannes on the sidelines of the informal council. mr maroni is the italian minister of the interior. during the meeting, mr maroni gave a number of explanations as to why the census should be used to check access to social benefits for those living in the nomadic camps. he explained that fingerprints were only taken if it was impossible to establish an identity otherwise, that fingerprints of children were taken before a judge gave permission. (brouhaha) i'm just reporting what the minister said. i'll tell you what i did afterwards. he said that he had asked for the suppression of all censuses of religion or ethnicity and, finally, that the italian government had launched, in cooperation with unicef, an action plan for the schooling of minors. but i must say, and this is very important, that the italian government has undertaken to send us a report on the state of play by the end of july. following this informal meeting, i asked the director-general, mr jonathan faul, to write to the italian authorities to obtain written confirmation of this information and to request further details without waiting for the report which is due at the end of july. a letter was sent on july 9. my services received a preliminary reply late last night in brussels. this answer provides clarifications on the identification of ethnicity and religion. as for the other elements, i cannot yet tell you whether they fully answer the questions put by the commission. we intend to obtain all the information necessary on the fingerprinting process. what is the purpose of fingerprinting and processing? what is the legal basis for such processing of personal data? is this data stored? how are they stored? can they be used for other purposes? is there any prior written information on the individuals whose fingerprints are being collected? as far as children are concerned, we have asked for confirmation of the information that fingerprints will be taken from minors under the age of 14 only when there is a court order and for the purpose of establishing their identity. we also ask what the situation is in the 17 regions of italy which are not affected by the declaration of a state of emergency. finally, we ask for the texts, measures, decisions, legislative, regulatory or administrative acts which will make it possible to assess the situation. i would like to know whether we intend to follow this matter with all due vigilance and, of course, to conduct the necessary dialogue with the italian authorities. i have concluded, madam president. the commission wants this issue to be dealt with in a transparent manner and with respect for fundamental rights and community law. our role is to be the guardian of the treaties by verifying objectively, once we have all the relevant information, that italy has correctly applied the community law applicable in the cases in question. more generally, as vladimir špidla has said, i am convinced, and i have told the italian government, that effective and appropriate solutions must be found to the problems facing the roma, and especially roma children, who are the first victims of poverty and exclusion. roma must be helped and not stigmatised; the commission has therefore stressed in its report last week that the european union, the member states and civil society must join forces to coordinate their efforts effectively.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i refer to rule 170 of our rules of procedure and i would like to put a motion for a resolution to this vote on behalf of the epp-ed group. there are issues and political views that divide us. but there are also things which unite us in this parliament: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. jacques barrot, as our commissioner responsible, has shown that there are still open questions in the assessment of the facts, what we have in italy about possible problems. we are referring mainly to press articles at the moment, and we are referring to a wide variety of forms that have been circulated in parliament in recent weeks. that is why we as the epp are asking that today's vote on the resolution be postponed until the september partsession, because then the facts will be clear, because then we will know what we are voting on. i would like to say to all those colleagues who are having problems with this: if you do not want to make headlines quickly, but if you want to achieve something for minorities in europe together, if you want all the groups in this parliament, large and small, to work together, then we can achieve something for these people together. if you're here for the headlines, if you're here to make a show, you have to vote now. we're asking that it be postponed until we have the facts. i admit that the debate we have had in the last few days has already put enough pressure to make a move. if you want serious answers, i ask you to agree to discuss it in september. (applause from the right)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we in the socialist group asked on monday evening and again yesterday for the commission to report on its discussions with the italian government. the commissioner has reported very factually, but clearly, that the italian government has provided very incomplete information, which i believe is not very accurate. you all know this sheet. it's a form, like the one you normally use to record crimes. a form that clearly shows that the italian government is taking measures that would be covered at most by criminal investigations, but which are clearly not aimed at protecting children. more than ever, after what commissioner barrot has just told us, it is imperative that we adopt this resolution today as a clear message from the european parliament. (applause from the centre and from the left)
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. welcomes the g8 leaders' statement on zimbabwe of 8 july, in particular their refusal to accept the legitimacy of any government that does not reflect the will of the zimbabwean people, their recommendation to appoint a special envoy of the un secretary-general to report on the political, humanitarian, human rights and security situation and to support regional efforts to advance mediation between political parties while respecting the results of the 29 march 2008 elections, and their intention to take further steps, inter alia, by introducing financial and other measures against those individuals responsible for violence;
i have to say, madam president, this house has a great human rights tradition that we can be proud of. this is not least the case with our policy towards china and tibet. i am all the more sorry that our resolution today does not in any way meet these demands. it is a matter of the european parliament, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. i would therefore like to say quite clearly that our president pöttering has really been very clear about our human rights principles in the last few months. chancellor merkel has also done so very clearly and impressively. i therefore call on this house to return to the clear statements of its china and tibet policy of the past years and decades and to regard this resolution as a pre-summer weakening.
the commission has already done so. i think mr landsbergis has not read the resolution which we adopted by a two-thirds majority. if he had read the resolution, he would have known that we have four points to make on the untenable situation in tibet and that we are calling on the chinese government to respect human rights and cultural rights in tibet. i would like to ask you, mr president, to take the opportunity to say a few words about the situation in the former yugoslavia. we have, by a large majority, stood up for human rights and for the cultural autonomy of tibet. that is the majority of this parliament!
i have to say, madam president, i voted for the brok report because i believe it is an important step in the right direction. i also support the communication policy that is being called for. but communication also includes truth and clarity. we should finally say clearly: croatia can and should become a member of the eu in this decade! the countries of south-eastern europe have a clear prospect of accession in the next decade. but the truth and the clarity also mean that it is undermining the eu to continue to push for turkey's accession. we should therefore be honest with our turkish partner and finally say that we must find other ways of cooperation. it is not in the brok report, but it is the logical consequence of the actual content of the report.
i have to say, madam president, i don't think it's in the best interest of this house to do what we're doing here. it is not appropriate for speakers to stand up and talk to the whole room. i would ask you to ensure that there is peace and that those who do not want to listen leave the chamber.
in writing. - as coordinator of the epp-ed group in the libe committee, i would also like to make a statement on behalf of my group colleagues. all the groups are united in the fight against racism, against all forms of ethnic discrimination and in the defence of human rights. it is clear that the epp-ed group also wants to shed light on what is happening in italy. in the resolution we refer mainly to press reports, as well as documents and reports of experience from various organisations and individuals. most of my colleagues could not even begin to imagine the situation. the italian authorities have offered to inform parliament's representatives on the spot and to provide further information. the commissioner responsible, jacques barrot, has promised an enlightening report by the end of july, which our group was anxious to see. it was and is our concern to clarify the facts sufficiently. that is why we are asking for the vote on the resolution to be postponed until the september partsession. unfortunately, our request was rejected, as were a number of amendments. it followed our familiar voting pattern. the epp-ed also believes that a thorough investigation would have been more useful than this resolution adopted under the expedited procedure. the opposing side has only targeted headlines, but has not done the people concerned any service.
the agenda calls for the council statement on the presentation of the programme of the french presidency. mr president of the european council, mr president nicolas sarkozy, i welcome you to the european parliament. (applause) i really appreciate you being here with us after this long journey, and now you're back from japan. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. (applause) i would like to thank
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to be able to speak before your house at a critical moment for europe. i feel that we all have a great responsibility. as president-in-office of the council, of course i have a great responsibility, but the responsibility of all europeans who are convinced is the same. how can europe get out of the crisis it is in? how can we avoid stagnation? how can we overcome our differences and put them to the service of a common european ideal? we are here at the heart of european democracy. each of you, to have the honor of your seat, had to gather the support of your fellow countrymen. there are women and men from the left, there are women and men from the centre, there are women and men from the right, there are elected representatives from 27 countries, but today we must make our differences a force in the service of a european union that is suffering. we must use these differences as an opportunity to reassure worried europeans. we must make democracy live, and therefore take over our debates and, at the same time, present the image of a europe that refuses to stand still. we have to bring everyone, the family, its 27 states, we have to leave no one behind. we are a few months away from a major deadline for the european parliament, and it is legitimate for everyone to think about it, and at the same time we must give this morning the impression of a europe that works for everyone. i have known easier contexts than the one in which europe finds itself. i should like to speak freely, knowing that as president of the council i must speak on behalf of everyone, take account of everyone's feelings and at the same time give the right answers. first of all, we have an institutional problem. the heads of state or government have tried to find a compromise formula with the lisbon treaty. no one has said that the lisbon treaty solves all the problems. but it was and remains the expression of a compromise that is desirable for everyone. i myself, as president of the french republic, have had to take responsibility. france voted "no" in 2005. and that "no" was a problem for france. ladies and gentlemen, the issues we face are so difficult and so complex; we try to give everyone the feeling that we are working on this without any a priori or ulterior motive. that's what's expected of us. (applause) before the elections, i proposed to the french people that the parliament ratify the treaty of lisbon. i said before the elections that i would not organise a referendum in france. i told the french that democratically. it was a choice, three days before my election, that could have been very significant. i don't regret that decision. i firmly believe that institutional questions, the rules of operation in europe, are the business of parliamentarians rather than the business of the referendum. it is a political choice that i take on board (applause) and it is a political choice that i took on board in my country before the elections. so it is a perfectly democratic choice. we now have the problem of the irish 'no', and it is certainly not a frenchman who can pass judgment on the irish 'no', when there was a dutch 'no' and a french 'no' before. i shall therefore be going to ireland on 21 july, my first visit as president of the council, to listen, to dialogue, to try to find solutions, and the french presidency will propose a method and, i hope, a solution in agreement with the irish government, either in october or december. here's the thing. we must not rush our irish friends, but at the same time we must know under what conditions and with what treaty we are going to hold the european elections in 2009. so we have a little time, but not too much time. we owe it to our fellow citizens to know on what basis we are going to hold the european elections. the base will be either lisbon or nice. there will be no new institutional conference. there will be no new treaty. it's either lisbon or nice. i would add, to be perfectly clear - this is my opinion, it is not the reason why it is the truth - that i have always been one of those who supported the enlargement of europe. the 2004 enlargement was a success. the family is reunited, and we shouldn't regret it. but i am one of those who have always regretted that europe has not had the wisdom to set up institutions before it enlarged. it was a mistake we're paying for today. it would have been more courageous to have institutions before enlargement. let's get this straight. i do not regret the enlargement, of course. the family must be united. but i also say with the same force, mr president pöttering, that we must not make the same mistakes again. if we stay in nice, nice is the europe of the 27. if we want - and i want - enlargement, we need new institutions before we can enlarge. who could understand that the europe of 27 is not capable of establishing institutions and that its only priority is to enlarge as if in a race for the front. so we need to be clear. if we want enlargement and we want enlargement, then we need new institutions. (applause) i would like to thank i would add - and i say this to president schulz - that i am in favour of enlargement to the balkans, that our croatian friends, like our serbian friends, are unquestionably european. but the countries most in favour of enlargement cannot at the same time say: 'we do not want lisbon' but 'we want enlargement'. it is lisbon and enlargement. it is not a question of blackmail, because in europe we do not blackmail. it's a matter of consistency, it's a matter of honesty and it's a matter of logic. so as regards croatia, the negotiations must continue, but everyone must take responsibility. if europe is to expand, and it must expand, it must do so with new institutions. i also want to say something else. i hear it said here and there in the european debates: 'it doesn't matter after all, it will be a multi-speed europe'. perhaps, alas, one day we will be forced to opt for a multi-speed europe. but this can only be the last, the final solution. europe has paid a heavy price for being divided by a shameful wall. europe has paid a heavy price for the dictatorship imposed on 80 million europeans. let's think before we leave countries behind. at the time of the negotiation of the lisbon treaty in brussels, france fought for poland to have its full place in the lisbon treaty. how can we tell 38 million poles that it was much easier to free themselves from the dictatorship they were suffering, from which they were freed thanks to men of the caliber of lech walesa, of the caliber of john paul ii, than to remain in the europe of freedom? the family is 27 members. we must leave no one behind. we must bring everyone into the european family. the french presidency will certainly work towards this. (applause) i would like to thank as regards the other issues, and i think we can reach a consensus on this, nothing would be worse than a europe that gives the impression of being immobile because, once again, europe is experiencing an institutional psychodrama. then we would be caught in a terrible trap. we reject institutions that condemn us to immobility, and at the same time some europeans are impatient because they think we are too immobile. despite the institutional problem, and perhaps because of the institutional problem, europe has a duty to act, and to act now. this is the message that the french presidency would like us to send to the europeans together. we are solving institutional problems, but we are not condemned to inaction. what are our priorities, mr president? the first is to show the europeans that europe can protect them, and i would like to say one word from that vocabulary, protection. but since the earliest times, if men have acquired a state power, it is because that state power was to protect them. mr president of the european parliament, europe must protect without being protectionist. protectionism leads nowhere. but it is a remarkable setback to see european citizens today consider that europe, which is supposed to protect them, is worrying them instead of defending them. it is up to us, therefore, to show in concrete cases how europe will protect them. the first is the energy-climate package. if there is one area in which our nations cannot do anything on their own, it is the preservation of the ecological balance of the planet. pollution, co2, the ozone layer, they don't care about the borders between our countries. the stakes are high because, since the ipcc experts met, we now know that we are the last generation that can avoid catastrophe. the last one! if we do not act now, future generations may be able to limit the damage, but we will not be able to prevent it. and every country in the world says, "i'm willing to do something as long as others start before me". with this kind of reasoning, our grandchildren's grandchildren will see nothing coming in terms of decisions. if we europeans have to wait for others to do something before we act, we can wait a long time. we have made europe to be a model of civilization and to defend values which are ours. among these values is the certainty that the world is doomed if we do not decide right away that europe must lead by example. to set an example, europe must set an example. we have a goal, the 2009 conference, that conference which must manage, organize the post-kyoto. europe must come together, having decided to adopt the energy-climate package. if we have not done so, we will have no power to force the chinese, the indians, the emerging countries, the americans to make the efforts we have decided on first. it is therefore essential that, under the french presidency, we adopt the energy-climate package which has been tabled by the commission. (applause) i would like to thank this package is demanding, this package is difficult, but i would like to call on everyone to take responsibility for it. if each country starts to want to renegotiate the point that bothers them, the difficulties they are experiencing, ladies and gentlemen, we will never reach an agreement. the french presidency therefore calls on the european parliament to work with it to secure the adoption of the energy and climate package within six months. it is a priority, it is neither left nor right. it is simply common sense. and if we go back to negotiating state by state, we have no chance of getting out of this. so, of course, there are elements, no doubt, that need to be clarified or adapted. i am thinking in particular of a very difficult issue, that of our companies, to which we are going to impose rules to preserve the planetary balances. should we in europe impose vital rules on our companies and continue to import products from countries which do not respect any of the rules we impose on our companies? it is not a question of protectionism, it is a question of fairness, justice and the rejection of naivety. there is the problem of defining a mechanism at our borders. is it free quotas or adjustment mechanisms? i don't know, but either way, we have to discuss it. (applause) i would like to thank secondly, i understand that for a number of countries - i am thinking in particular of those that joined us in 2004, where the bulk of energy is fossil fuels - the effort required is considerable. and these countries tell us, "we've had growth for ten years, don't come and break the growth we have". there is no doubt that there is a way to bring everyone together, and we must work with the president of the commission to ensure that everyone can say to himself that he will not be condemned to recession, misery, poverty and unemployment. but this energy-climate package is our top priority. the world can 't wait; europe must lead the way. secondly, we are now 24 of the 27 countries in the schengen area, which means 24 of the 27. you say 23? well, 23 if you like, but that's not bad, not counting those who are not part of the european union, but are part of it - that's why there are often debates between us - about the schengen area. but it doesn't matter. what does that mean? this means that we have therefore decided to allow full free movement between the countries of the schengen area. i would like to say to the group chairmen and to the members that on behalf of france, on behalf of france, with bernard kouchner and jean-pierre jouyet, we have taken a decision which was not so easy to take. since 1 july, there are no longer any barriers to access to the french labour market, as i have announced that i will remove all the restrictions that had been negotiated by my predecessors; all workers from all european countries can come to work in france. (applause) i would like to thank it wasn't that simple. it wasn't that easy. moreover - and i am speaking under the control of french parliamentarians of all persuasions - i was told the worst would happen if i announced this decision and, as usual, the decision was taken, and the worst did not happen. i did not like the controversy over the famous 'polish plumber', which gave a very bad image of my country and a very bad image of europe. that is not why we have both built the european union. (applause) i would like to thank but, since we no longer have borders between us, is it legitimate, is it reasonable to continue to define, each on our own, an immigration policy that ignores the constraints of others? the european pact for immigration is an essential document for the french presidency in two respects. firstly - and i would like to speak to the left of the house first - if we all, the european countries, adopt a european immigration policy, we will remove immigration from national debates where the extremes use the misery of some and the fear of others in the service of values that are not ours. the only way to make the debate on immigration responsible is to make it a european policy, free of political bias and forcing countries with different sensibilities to work together. what was proposed by brice hortefeux, adopted by all the ministers, and which must be discussed in coreper and then in the european council, seems to me to be a priority which will demonstrate that europe does not want to be a fortress, that europe does not refuse to welcome, that europe needs labour immigration, but that europe cannot welcome all those who would like to come to europe. i would add that, as far as political asylum is concerned, it is not normal that one person can lodge 27 applications in 27 democracies and that the responses of these 27 democracies are not the same when faced with the same problem. i would add that, for development with africa, we will be stronger by working together; this is the second priority of the french presidency. thirdly, we want to promote a concept which has been discussed a great deal in europe but which is making little progress, namely european defence. i am well aware that there is a great deal of disagreement on this issue. but i would like to be allowed to express my convictions. how can you expect europe to be a political power with a loud voice if europe is not able to defend itself and to put resources at the service of its policy? let us take kosovo as an example, which i believe is a success of the european union. this is a european problem, which must be solved by europeans. how can the europeans continue to solve it if the europeans do not have the military and human resources to enforce the decisions we have taken together? how can we imagine making europe the most prosperous economic area if we are not able to defend ourselves? of course there is nato and it does not occur to anyone, certainly not to me, to question the usefulness of nato. it is not european defence policy or nato, it is nato, the alliance with the americans, and an autonomous european security policy. it's both, not one against the other. i would add that we cannot go on with a europe which ensures its security through the contribution of only four or five countries, while the rest is dependent on the efforts of these four or five countries. we cannot continue to build aircraft in our own backyard, to have a competing arms industry which is going bankrupt and ultimately weakening, simply because we do not have the strength to conduct a european defence policy. the fourth priority is the difficult question of the common agricultural policy. and i will come to my conclusion, which is related to this. it is precisely because it is difficult that it is appropriate to talk about it. i am well aware that there are agricultural states among us which are ardent defenders of the work of their peasants and that at the same time there are states which think that this policy is too costly. ladies and gentlemen, may i appeal to your common sense. by 2050, there will be nine billion people on the planet. already, 800 million people on the planet are starving. there's a child starving to death every 30 seconds. is it reasonable to ask europe to reduce its agricultural production when the world has never needed food so much? i don't think that's very reasonable. this is not a question of french agriculture, it is a question of common sense. (applause) i would like to thank i would add a second point. whether we are an agricultural country or not, food security concerns everyone. is it reasonable to impose, rightly, on our farmers and herders rules of traceability and safety, and to continue to import into europe meat from elsewhere that does not comply with any of the rules we impose on our farmers? (applause) i would like to thank thirdly, agricultural prices have never been higher. well, this is just the right time to talk about prices, to talk about subsidies and to talk about community preference. i also think that between the cap health check and the financial arbitrage, we could agree on concepts such as food sufficiency for europe and food security for europe. ladies and gentlemen, there are many other subjects: the social dimension, a wonderful subject. but let me say this. i sometimes notice a certain contradiction: there is a common thinking which often says that europe must not interfere in everything, that europe must interfere in what concerns it, but those who accuse europe of interfering in everything are the first to raise their voices when we do not talk about the social dimension, whereas, until now, the member states have always wanted social policy to be first of all a national dimension, because pensions, because health are first of all national issues. ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of social directives that president barroso has done well to put on the agenda. i am thinking of works councils, i am thinking of temporary work, i am thinking of a number of minimum rules which must be imposed on everyone in europe; the french presidency will make this a priority. i would add that other subjects should be included in the agenda of the french presidency, even if they are not of european competence. i'll take the example of what affects us all, alzheimer's disease. (comment by mr cohn-bendit off the record: 'not yet'). mr cohn-bendit, it would not have occurred to me that a man as young as you could be affected, for the time being, by a tragedy which, if it does not affect you, affects millions of europeans. these millions of europeans are as important to me as your health. (applause) i would like to thank you. subsidiarity does not, of course, make it a european competence. however, i would like the french presidency to organise a meeting of all the specialists from all our european countries so that we can share best practice, so that our researchers can pool their skills and, although we know nothing about this disease, so that we can find a solution together. imagine what europeans will say about europe: it is a way of curbing terrible diseases. what i say about alzheimer's, i could say about cancer that breaks families, and there's no reason for each of us, in our own corner, to work on finding solutions to cancer when together, we have more and we are stronger. (applause) finally, may i say, in the matter of culture and sport, that it is a grave mistake not to talk about subjects which concern the daily lives of europeans. there is a european cultural exception. we must make culture a part of the daily debate in europe. the world must not be flattened in front of one language and one culture. the question of taxation on the video, on the disc, as you have decided the question of taxation on the book, must be clearly asked. and as regards sport, which is an element that transcends political divisions, may i say that i would like to see a sporting exception in europe, just as there is a cultural exception. i am for the free movement of people and goods. but i do not accept the idea that we should pay our football clubs by destroying the training effort that a number of clubs are making by going to get 14-year-old boys who have to stay in their club to meet the training imperative. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a fair and equitable manner. (applause) i would like to thank i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, and mr president, by apologizing for the length of the debate, with a final remark. and i know where i am going to make this remark: in front of the beating heart of european democracy. europe has suffered a lot. europe has suffered first of all from the cowardice of a number of us who were happy to make it pay for the responsibilities of a number of political leaders who had not dared to assume, in the face of public opinion, the choices they had refused to defend in brussels. (applause) i would like to thank that is called cowardice, and i say to the president of parliament and to the president of the commission that the presidency will work hand in hand with you. if any member state does not agree, it should state so. as i have said to the polish president, he himself negotiated the treaty of lisbon, he gave his word. a word must be kept. this is not a matter of politics, it's a matter of morality. (applause) i would like to thank but europe suffered from something else. europe has suffered from a lack of debate. i'd like to end with this because it's very close to my heart. our institutions are independent, but independence does not mean indifference. if we, the political leaders, do not have the courage to debate, who will? what's there to discuss? what is the right economic strategy? what is the right monetary strategy? what is the right exchange rate strategy? what is the right interest rate strategy? of course, everyone - and i say this to our german friends in particular - can have his own conviction. but no one has the right to prevent a useful debate. of course everyone wants a deal, the trade agreement that is being negotiated, but no one should be afraid to say that europe does not have to be naive. we need to discuss the benefits of free trade. but we also have to tell emerging countries that there is no reason for them to demand the same rights without assuming the same duties. the european debate must be held without fear. we must approach the european debate with respect for ourselves, but without being afraid to defend our convictions. the independence of the ecb is not called into question by questioning whether it is reasonable to raise interest rates to 4.25% when the americans have interest rates of 2%. we are engaged in a debate, a quiet debate, where no one has the truth - certainly not me - but not necessarily the experts who have to demonstrate the effectiveness of their decisions. it is in this spirit, ladies and gentlemen, that i intend, with the french ministers, to assume this responsibility. i know how hard this is. i know perfectly well that when you are president of the council you are not defending the interests of your country but the interests of the union. i am well aware, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that we must act collectively in the interests of the europe of 27. well, i hope that in six months' time everyone will be able to say: 'europe has progressed thanks to your participation and your support.' (applause from the left)
mr president of the european council! we thank you for your speech. we wish you continued courage and determination during your presidency, and above all we wish you success, because if you succeed, it is the success of the european union and also the success of the european parliament. and you can be sure that the european parliament will stand by you as you make your determined contribution to leading the european union to a good future. the european parliament will support you in this. i am also pleased to welcome, along with you, ministers bernard kouchner, brice hortefeux, our former colleagues, and in particular your minister for europe, who is almost always here in parliament, jean-pierre jouyet. welcome to the european parliament! (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. there are points in your ideas, mr president, which we share, and i shall first address some of them. i'm glad you're back from japan in one piece. the next round of climate pledges has just been made. it's time for us to deliver. yes, you are right, the climate package is a priority that our group shares with you. and you're right, not every state can do this on its own. the german and french are not alone in straubing either, by making agreements there alone! it is a matter of 25 other countries, and above all, it is the european parliament that decides in the end! we are doing this together with you, but do not go off on your own - not even with angela merkel, as beautiful as that is! i opened the french newspapers this morning because you were talking about sports. i wondered what the french newspapers were saying this morning about sarkozy's visit to the european parliament. i didn't say anything. you write a lot about the tour de france, and there's a german wearing the yellow jersey. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i have listened to you very carefully, mr president, on the other points you have mentioned, on climate change and, in particular, on the lisbon treaty. yeah, if we're gonna deliver, we need tools. and we are in a dilemma. the citizens are asking us for more efficiency, more transparency, more democracy, and also more democracy and more influence of the national parliaments. all of this is true. but every time we want to deliver, the instrument we need, a revised contract, is thrown out of our hands. so you're right, we need a new start. we need to try to get this treaty into effect. i think it's great that you're going to ireland and working with the irish in a constructive way. if i may give you a personal advice, let bernard kouchner for this trip in paris. i had the impression that his previous contributions had not helped us much in convincing the irish. (applause from the centre) but i have to say, mr president, that we are totally opposed to you. you have mentioned four priorities for your presidency, and i have been waiting to see if there is a fifth priority. and then you talked about some other things that were also important, not a priority, some other things. and among these other things you have called social europe and said that this is a matter for the nation states. i think that's a serious mistake. (applause from the centre) i would like to say that we expect a different approach from the french presidency. social europe does not mean that we want to create a social office in europe or that we want to create family allowances in europe. the social europe is about something else: for a long time people have believed - and rightly so - that economic progress through europe is possible. we have worked for 50 years to ensure that economic progress in europe leads to more growth and more jobs, but always also to the guarantee of more social security. more and more people today feel the opposite, that europe's economic progress benefits a few big corporations, a few insurance companies, hedge funds or big business, but not them. the european union has a duty to make them feel that growth in europe, the economic progress of this continent, is not for the benefit of the banks and the big corporations, but for the benefit of every single citizen. and if the national states have to guarantee this, then you, as president of the european council, have an obligation to say to your colleagues: make sure that social justice is put first in your national states and not market radicalism! (applause from the centre) i would add that we have a european court of justice which is passing judgments every day, and its judgments are also changing the social state of the individual member states, without the member states having the instruments to defend themselves against it. that is why we need a social europe, mr president, and that is why i expect you to change your mind on this question by december, otherwise the socialists will not be able to support you. mr president, social fears of relegation lead to dangerous developments, and one dangerous development is that governments who are on the defensive believe they can distract from these social fears by hating minorities. we are currently experiencing this in a member state of the european union. i don't know what percentage of the italian population are roma children, but i do know that when a government goes and says they are being recorded as a detective service, they have to give their fingerprints, supposedly to protect them socially, this is a serious violation of fundamental rights in europe. your country, france, has brought the first charter of fundamental rights to the european community. the first declaration of human rights came from your country. you stand as president of this republic in the tradition of this country. as president of the european council, i ask you to tell the government of silvio berlusconi that europe is a community of law and not a union of arbitrariness. (applause from the centre) we have many great challenges as the european union, but if we do not secure the social state in europe, people will turn away from this europe, and if they do, the lisbon treaty will not be of any use to us, and this project will fail. that's why we need courage. i know you're a brave man. we support your priorities, you support our priorities: social europe and climate change, institutional reform and human rights. then you'll have a successful presidency! (applause from the left)
mr president, you said: 'france does not have to pass judgment on the irish 'no'. that's what i'm saying. the irish nein must be respected. it is the right of the irish to abstain as they have done. it is also the good law of all other countries in europe, the way to a more democratic, transparent and accountable eu. the lisbon treaty is a step in this direction. i therefore welcome the fact that the ratification process is continuing. i also think, and i share your opinion, that it would be good to speak openly about this, that there is already a europe of different speeds. we are thinking of the euro, the schengen agreement, the charter of fundamental rights and many other areas. it is also in accordance with the sensitivities and wishes of the eu member states that they choose different speeds in the things they have in common. a europe of different speeds allows the states that want to do more together to do so, because it is important that we maintain the principle of voluntariness in europe. it is important that the states which want to do something together do so voluntarily and that all the states have the opportunity to join in at any time. it is not allowed to force a country into another commonwealth. a europe of different speeds also makes it easier to continue accession negotiations. i consider it a mistake that croatia and turkey should be punished for voting against the resolution. mr president, i would like to thank you. they are rightly proud that their country is the home of human rights. the olympic games are a sporting event, not a political event. i therefore consider it wrong that you want to go to china for the opening ceremony, and i am glad that the president of our house, of the european parliament, mr pöttering, is not going to china. mr president, i would like to thank you. in conclusion, let me say that you have found in your place a greeting from many of my colleagues, a rose and also a letter. in this letter, you are asked to commit to the fact that there are more women at the top of the european union. the ladies are sitting on you as a man of women! let me add one more request: as a democratically elected member of parliament, i hope that you will support us in ensuring that this parliament, the european parliament, can also decide on its own seat.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. i would like to pay a special compliment to the president-in-office. this is my 29th presidency of the council and i have to tell you without reservation that i have never seen such a convincing presentation of a european programme and idea. i'm telling you this straight. (applause from the centre) there was only one case where a council president was given more acclaim, but only at the opening. in the end, he had nothing on his agenda. that was british prime minister blair. we are confident, mr president sarkozy, that you will end your presidency of the council in six months with good results. it is precisely your argument today - the way you deal with the arguments of your colleagues, the way you are incorporated into the dossiers, the fact that you are not presenting a wish list here but are presenting your priorities in an argumentative manner - that gives me hope that you can actually carry out your ambitious programme. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. i am more concerned that there will still be problems in the council, with the responsibility of the council and the individual member states, that they will not accept the quotas envisaged. we also agree with you that nuclear energy needs its role in this climate package. there is a clear majority in this parliament for the civil use of nuclear energy. don't let these t-shirts irritate you. if it is a question of germany and france together taking the lead in the european union on substantive issues not on major declarations of a world political nature , then you have us on your side. i have to tell you that mrs koch-mehrin obviously did not listen when you gave your explanation for china. this has been a lesson in foreign policy for this parliament, and i can only encourage you to remain as consistent and as straightforward as you have been on these issues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to sum up the debate this morning by saying that it is good that france is holding the presidency at the moment, and that you, mr president sarkozy, are holding the presidency of the council. it was a good day for europe and for this parliament, because for the first time in a long time someone spoke here with passion for europe, not just with good arguments. and perhaps that is what we need to win the irish back and to win back our citizens: passion and moderation, and moderation includes europe's limiting itself. i would like to say to you a magic word: we do not just need the treaty in ireland, we need a new culture of subsidiarity. we need borders for europe, both externally and internally. a new culture of subsidiarity will bring us a new acceptance of europe, and i am in full agreement with president barroso on this. good luck on your way, president sarkozy.
i'm sorry, but i can't take on anyone else right now. we've already gone far beyond that time. i would like to thank president sarkozy and, of course, president barroso for giving us their time today. that is why president barroso and then president sarkozy have the floor to conclude.
president of the commission. - mr president, i would first like to join in the congratulations expressed by the vast majority of members who have spoken: congratulations on the conviction, enthusiasm, energy and political will which president sarkozy has shown here today and which i am sure he and his ministers and collaborators will continue to show throughout the french presidency. i'll tell you, this is not a surprise to me. i was absolutely convinced that it would be very good news if france could assume the responsibility of the presidency of the council at this particularly difficult time. of course, president sarkozy and all of us would have preferred a clearer institutional horizon, but i believe that it is precisely in these difficult times that we can see the political capacity and the importance of a strong political will. i am in favour of this democratic political debate. i have said many times that we must politically take on board the differences, the plurality of views that exist, for example, here in this parliament. we must be able to express these differences, because europe is different from a national political system. in our democratic national political systems, whenever there is a political discussion, even if it is sometimes very polarized, the very legitimacy of the state is not called into question, whereas very often in europe, when we who are for europe express these oppositions with vigor, we have to confront those who are against europe and who exploit all kinds of populisms to harm our institutions and to compromise the great project of peace and solidarity that is the european project. (applause) i would like to thank you. that is why it is really important to be able to express all these points of view, but by strengthening the pro-european camp in this particularly difficult period. we have, let us be clear, the european elections in june 2009. if the various european political forces and the various european institutions do not work together in a constructive way, then we will be giving arguments to those who want to exploit populism, xenophobia and nationalism to the extreme, by linking nationalism with the fatherland, which is wrong. i often quote a great french author who said: "patriotism is love of one's own people; nationalism is hatred of others". we can love our country and at the same time defend our european project with conviction, as president sarkozy said earlier. so i hope that the debate which will take place during these six months will strengthen the european institutions, and will also strengthen our project for a europe of the future. i want to answer a specific question. that is the only concrete question that has been put to me; the others, of course, i leave to president sarkozy, who has much more competence than i do to deal with them. this was the specific question asked by mrs napolitano about the euromed programme in the cultural field. i would like to inform you that the current programme, the cultural programme relating to euromed, is still allocated eur 15 million for this year. for 2009-10, it is true, nothing has been decided yet, but there is a strong pressure on external spending and, in these cases, what happens, quite frankly, is that the third countries concerned tend to favour bilateral cooperation to the detriment of regional envelopes. this is therefore a matter which should be discussed with the euromed countries. and one of the interesting aspects of france's initiative to create a union for the mediterranean, which i supported from the outset, is to bring in a stronger element of regional cooperation. i am sometimes asked what more the union for the mediterranean can bring to the barcelona process. it is, of course, an element of greater political appropriation, it is also a political upgrading, particularly thanks to the biannual summit, but it is also the dimension brought by concrete regional projects and, i hope also now, by very concrete projects to which we can add a stronger private sector dimension because we need even more resources. this is the specific area we are working on and i would like to conclude by saying: 'good luck to france, good luck to my dear friend president sarkozy!' (applause) i would like to thank you.
i would like to thank president barroso and vice-president jacques barrot for their uninterrupted presence for three hours.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i should like to begin by saying that it seems natural to me, when one has the honour of being the president of the council, to be in front of parliament for as many hours as the european parliament wishes. not just on the first day of the presidency, but i say to you, mr president of the european parliament, as i say to each of the group chairmen and to the conference of presidents, if you wish me to come at any time during the presidency, i am at the disposal of parliament. we must play the game of the european institutions. the european parliament is at the heart of parliamentary democracy. it's not a matter of availability, it's a matter of priority. the presidency needs the european parliament, so it is at its disposal. (applause) i would like to thank i would like to say a few words to each of you, naturally apologizing to the speakers. i would first like to say to mr bushill-matthews that i am one of those who believe that europe needs the united kingdom. i was never one of those europeans or frenchmen who thought we should be suspicious of our english friends. britain can bring much more to europe than she herself believes. england is the opening up to the anglo-saxon world, it is the world's first language, it is an economic dynamism, demonstrated in recent years. i say to our british conservative friends: "think carefully that europe needs you, that you have your place in it, and that a europe with the british, one foot in and one foot out, would be a weakened europe". england is a great nation. it has nothing to fear from europe and europe has much to look forward to from england. i would like to say to mr poignant that he has penetrated me to the very depths of my being, and that he has understood that i like politics and that parliament is a bit like my garden. yes, mr poignant, parliament is the place of democracy, and i do not respect and i would not understand those politicians who would not be happy to speak out and defend their ideas in the cradle of parliamentary democracy. i hope that in your remark there was a regret, not an overestimation, about the harmonization of the labour market. it's like harlem desire, by the way. i am totally with you, i am against total harmonization, because the peoples would refuse. on the other hand, minimum rules in the context of a labour market, in the very context of a single economic market, are perfectly natural. let us both be aware of the difficulties. take austria, for example, led by a socialist prime minister and government; they will explain that the retirement age is 65 and the contribution periods are 45 years. you know how difficult it was for me to raise the contribution to 40 years, and the support of the french socialist party was not acquired spontaneously. so explain to me a little how, having had such difficulty in obtaining 40 years of contributions in france, it would be enough for me to be president of europe for six months to make it a priority, taken between 45 years of contributions in austria and 40 years in france. how can we do that? it is far from a dream come true, but perhaps that is the difference between the french socialist party and the european socialist party. i sometimes feel closer to the european socialist party than to the french socialist party. i confess my fault, probably to apologize for it. (speech by mr martin schulz, off the record)
this is not working! you're not giving the floor right now! it is not possible to divide this between the socialists and the president of the council. mr president, i would like to ask you to take up a question from mr schulz. then he gets the floor.
acting president of the council. - mr president, yes, provided i do not take a wrong turn in a german-german debate.
i thank you very much, mr president. mr president, it is good that you are taking this approach to socialism. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. if you feel at home in european social democracy, first of all come to german social democracy, then we will slowly bring you closer to french social democracy, and in the end you will become a real and beautiful comrade.
mr schulz, this is not a question of mercy, but of respect for our order. and we want to respect that in europe!
acting president of the council. - mr president, you will notice that i already have a socialist on my right, but there is room for a socialist on my left. (applause) i would like to thank you. you know, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that what we are doing is a waste of time because i think that democracy at the european level can be rid of the violence that it sometimes has at the national level. the european level allows everyone to take a little distance from the elections, which are brutal, often unfair and always difficult, and finally the fact that in a place like yours we can speak with a smile and respect for each other, perhaps this is also how we make the european ideal popular and everyone can make it their own. i do not think that this is a waste of time, as mr poignant and mr schulz understand. mrs de sarnez is absolutely right. we must change our development policy so that food agriculture can be made a priority. it is absolutely essential; the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european food safety authority, the establishment of a european food safety authority and the establishment of a european food safety authority. i fully agree with you on this point. you also called on me to defend a vision of europe. i share that ambition. i hope you'll be as generous in advising me on the contents of this vision. and you know very well that, here too, between the great, somewhat disembodied ideal and all the technical issues of everyday life, the problem for each of us is to decide constantly where to put the great ideas that sometimes go beyond the difficult daily lives of our citizens and where to put the solution to the technical problem that affects their daily lives. it's not that simple; i'll try to do that. to answer you, mr brian crowley, yes, development is necessary to prevent illegal immigration. in fact, the best answer to the immigration question, as everyone is aware, is development. there are 475 million young africans under the age of 17, and there are 12 kilometres of the strait of gibraltar between europe and africa. the disaster in africa will be the disaster in europe. there will be no barriers, no borders to resist it. so we need a development policy. here too, it is very difficult to distinguish between multilateralism and bilateralism. this is a very big subject. i intend to give it a lot of attention. mr. irujo told me about the linguistic diversity. i fully agree, including, if i understand correctly, that you do not like the term "regional language" in relation to official languages. i'm one of those people, you see, who thinks it's a great service to render. it would be a great service to all the so-called autonomist or independence movements to give them a monopoly on the defence of regional languages. and that is a very serious mistake. i say this for corsica, french republic; there are people who are corsican, who love corsica, and who in the village, speak corsican. it's not a question of national unity. and so, linguistic diversity is, in my view, as important as cultural diversity. moreover, there will be no cultural diversity if there is only one language. mr nigel farage, i enjoyed your speech, but i will tell you one thing: you were very happy to find me, you english, to close sangatte, because i closed sangatte, and you asked me to do so. even if you are an englishman who loves his country, you cannot solve the immigration problem by yourself, and i must tell you that france has no intention of being england's border guard. let me tell you that it is all very well to say: "in my country, i do not want an identity card, i do not want a common immigration policy", but you are nevertheless very happy that illegal aliens are arrested in france so that you do not have them in england. england, no more than france, cannot manage on its own. i would add, mr nigel farage, that i respect the poles, but it was not you who were in my office negotiating the treaty of lisbon with a number of colleagues. we were in brussels, and who was in my office? not prime minister tusk because the prime minister at the time was mr kaczynski's brother. president kaczynski was there, and i say one thing: he is a man i trust, he is a man i respect. but in europe, when you put your signature on it, if you start by not respecting it, there is no more europe, there is no more europe at all, there are no more negotiations. when one of us commits his country in brussels, he must also commit it at home. i said that, no more, no less. (applause) i would like to thank it's perfectly respectful of the poles: mr farage, poland, i believe i have defended it. president barroso will be able to speak about this better than anyone else. we need poland, but we also need the word given to be respected. mrs margie sudre, thank you for your support, i agree with your analysis on all points and i thank you very much. mr rasmussen, i understand he was number one, and i can see who might be number two, i would like to say that the danish example is a good example of a country which has made a breakthrough, and this allows me to respond to all the speakers on the irish question. of course, we must not force the irish and we must respect them, but we must have the courage to say to our irish friends: 'you must also respect the other countries that have ratified. we have no lessons to teach you, but remember that others also have an opinion to form and that, inevitably, at some point, we will have to find a common path. europe does not want to go on without you, but europe cannot stop just because of you. i say this with all the respect i have for a country that voted no. we french have caused you many problems and difficulties, but at some point we must get out of this situation where each looks at the other and waits for the other to take the initiative. the french presidency, together with the commission presidency and the presidency of the european parliament, will have to take the initiative. after that, one or the other will say yes or no. i think there is a solution, but it is certainly not in sitting still and saying, "let's wait and see". i think time is against us, that europe has been waiting for years and that it is not worth waiting any longer. we will find a solution, i am sure, as the danes did. mrs. silvana mehrin, i was very touched by your appreciation of "man to women". i'll leave you to the content. i don't know exactly what this means in truth and i'll be careful not to go into that field. i wouldn't want you to misunderstand. i know that there is a multi-speed europe. we are not all in the euro, and we are not all in schengen. but finally, before we make an institutional europe at several speeds, i would like us all to try to go there, and do not blame the presidency for having the ambition to take everyone along. because if, even before we start, we say: 'it is all right, let's leave it behind', then one day we negotiate a social exception for the british, another day we negotiate an institutional exception for the irish, and a third day we negotiate an exception for the poles. at that point, i fear we will arrive at a situation where all the countries will rightly ask for an exception, and where will the european union be? where is the plan that the founding fathers had for the baptismal font? that's what i'm saying. maybe we'll have to come, but then i'd like us to come after we've tried to bring the whole family. i would also like to say to those who are concerned about croatia that i am of course in favour of continuing the negotiations and that i think it would be a serious mistake to close the door of europe to the balkans because the balkans need peace and democracy, which the union can bring to them, but i will not go back to the lisbon debate. i would like to tell mr bielan that i do not want to threaten ireland; i wouldn't be able to do that, and i wouldn't even think about it. i go there to listen, but at the same time, everyone understands. this is a people who say in the polls that they are 80% for europe; there's still something you can do with him without threatening him. the vat on fuel is a french proposal; i don't want to impose it on anyone. i simply draw your attention to the fact that my belief is that oil will continue to rise. we must have the courage to tell our fellow citizens. there is 3% less oil production every year because of resource depletion and 2-3% more oil consumption because of the growth of emerging countries. my thinking is simply that vat is a proportional tax on prices. if oil is 175 dollars a barrel tomorrow, can we continue, without saying anything, to take 20% proportional on a barrel that explodes? that's a question i want to ask. we will report back to the commission presidency in october. i'll try to push my convictions, and we'll see what the result is. there's a summit on ukraine, we'll get things moving. we must encourage ukraine on its path to democracy, we must associate it with the european union. ukraine is not a small country, it has 42 million inhabitants. it's not a small decision. we are now at the association stage, but anyone who walks the streets of kiev can see that it is a european capital. mr werner langen, i would like to thank you for your compliments, which have touched me deeply. i'm rather pleased with the reference to tony blair. i do not know if you did it for that, but i consider tony blair to be one of the statesmen who has done a lot for europe, who has done a lot for his country, and frankly, i do not know if he would be embarrassed to say this, but on many subjects, i think he is at least a man who has given back credit, strength, to the british political debate and to the european political debate. i think that in europe we need leaders, and undoubtedly tony blair, in his time, was one of those leaders. i am a little more left-wing, but i do not see that on this side of the political spectrum mr blair is always being praised. yes, mr goebbels, others must make efforts and this is the whole question that will be asked in the climate negotiations, but europe must set an example. i am not naive in saying this. i think you're more credible when you do what you ask others to do. some people might tell me it's better to wait. i think we should take the risk of action. my political philosophy is that nothing is worse than stagnation. the worst risk is not taking any. mr cavada, you are absolutely right. we must face our fears. thank you for your support. as for the union for the mediterranean, i would like to say that i have no criticism of the barcelona process in mind, following president barroso. i'd like to say something, though. barcelona was a very good intuition, but there was a problem at the barcelona summit. because as i recall, there was only one arab head of state, president abu mazen. how do you propose to create a union for the mediterranean, to bring the northern and southern shores closer together, if the southern shore does not come? at the paris summit, i'm speaking under the control of bernard kouchner, there will be all the arab heads of state. it may be a slight difference, but for me it's fundamental. i would also like to say to mr zahradil that we should not make a crisis out of lisbon, but we should also not pretend that nothing is happening. it is not a question of dramatization, but at the same time it is still annoying that the last three referendums on european union have ended in a negative vote, albeit for other reasons, but it is still not a very encouraging signal, to say the least. mrs napoletano, i will not answer her because president barroso has answered her. mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, yes, there must be a european dimension to sport and i would see no advantages in the fact that in the statistics on the olympic games, statistics are recorded nation by nation, but there is a specific column for european medals. it would be a way of showing that we also exist in the europe of sport. mr desir, i have answered your question about labour market standards. there's a famous debate on social policy. it is not enough to work 35 hours to win elections, and it is not enough to work 35 hours to have a real social policy. i would add that the reason why i had such difficulty in dismantling the automatic and rigid 35-hour day in france was precisely because of european harmonization, because no other country had followed you on this path. i don't know. not one of them. including the european socialist governments. so, you see, i am happy to hear the call for social harmonization, but i would like to say to our french socialist friends that social harmonization means not defending in france ideas that no one else in europe defends, because this is an exception, and our country suffers from it. i would like to thank mr jerzy buzek for poland's commitment to europe. i have never, ever doubted poland's commitment to europe. poland is one of the six most populous countries in europe, and that is precisely why i am telling president kaczynski that we need his signature, because poland is not just any country in europe. it is an extraordinarily important country, it is a symbol, and naturally the institutional crisis must be reduced to the irish question alone. president barón crespo, doha, yes, i said so to president barroso, i said so to gordon brown, but doha, not at any price. i would like to defend two ideas that are very close to my heart. firstly, i am told that if there is no agreement, there is no growth. excuse me, but it's been seven years since we've had a deal. and for six years, the world has seen unprecedented growth. the wto agreement is preferable to no agreement. but let no one say that without agreement there can be no growth. for six years, we had them. secondly, when i hear what president barroso says, when i hear what the prime minister of canada says, and even angela merkel says; they say today that the account is not there. that brazil has made no effort to lower tariff barriers in industry, that there is no effort in services. and what about the closure of the chinese market? there is no french exception in this respect. firstly, as president of the council, i must defend the union's position loyally. but the union's position is that i have not heard anyone, not even the british government, say that we must sign the agreement at the current stage of the negotiations. we are therefore unanimous in europe, even if for different reasons, in saying that in the present state of affairs, it does not matter, that europe has made every effort, that europe cannot continue to make efforts if the other major regions of the world are not determined to move forward. from this point of view, i think we all agree. i would like to thank mr zappalà for his support of european immigration policy, and i would like to thank mrs gurmai for her strong commitment to equality between women and men, but i do not know whether her remarks were also addressed to me. but the fact that she is hungarian is already an important asset for me. i would like to say to mr varvitsiotis that i am fully aware that there is a crisis of european identity, and perhaps the european parliament could help all the institutions on this issue. why not imagine that there is a real debate, mr president pöttering, about what european identity is? and this subject of european identity is a subject of debate in the european parliament, much more so than a subject of heads of state or government. and perhaps the european parliament could even organise debates on the subject. we will come to you at that time and give our opinion. i think that it is more up to parliament to define european identity than to governments, which are naturally confronted with the day-to-day business of management, each at the level of their own large country. if there is a place where we have to define what european identity is, i believe it is - and i hope president barroso will agree - it is not in the european council, it is not in the commission, it is first of all in the european parliament. i would like to reply to mr karas, who says that we must be careful. yes, i understand that, i'll try to prove it. i hope he didn't doubt that my temper didn't prevent me from being a good sport. it's not just about being soft to be skillful, or dynamic to be clumsy. maybe we can be both dynamic and skillful, but thank you for giving me the opportunity to demonstrate that. (applause from the left)
i would like to thank mr sarkozy very much. i cannot recall - and i have been a member of this parliament for 29 years - that a president of the council has been here for three and a half hours discussing and responding to every speech. we look forward to your next visit! that concludes this point. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
chairman of the committee on constitutional affairs. the commission is not i was just looking at this. in fact, article 149 (3) says that 40 members may request the existence of a quorum. the quorum shall be present when one third of the members are present. the president will then decide whether we are qualified to take a decision on such a request. and then there is paragraph 4 which you mentioned, which says: 'members who have requested to be declared competent to take a decision shall be counted in the determination of attendance even if they are no longer present.' we have a session that is ongoing. so i think that those members who were there and said that we wanted to see if the decisionmaking power was there should be included, even if they are not in the house this afternoon. that is my understanding of paragraph 4. i understand you have a motion from 40 members of this house who want a quorum to be established this afternoon. you can look around here, one-third of 785 is something over 200, we're maybe 30 here. so, no matter how hard we try, we will not reach 200 this afternoon unless everyone comes. mr president, we can debate, but if you find that one third of the members are not present, we cannot vote. that is the procedure.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my dear jo leinen, i have to tell you something. i'm a veteran of these emergency debates. they used to be on friday, then they were on thursday afternoon. in the past, all the groups regularly used to make the manoeuvre that if someone did not agree with some urgency - as in the case of one group on the kashmir issue - then they would make such a request. that is why the rules of procedure were changed at the time and it was introduced that 40 applicants - although it may not have been so clearly stated, but that was the intention of the reform at the time - must be in the room and question the decisionmaking capacity. it was introduced because they knew about this problem, and since then there has never been a quorum in the room to determine the decision-making capacity, and therefore it has always been there. i think it is legally important to examine the intention of this regulation. i am sure that this can be read in the minutes of the committee and the plenary. the intention of the reform was to link the question of decision-making with such a high quorum of those present that it does not become a normal social game. that would have almost ruined these debates. to save them, we instituted this quorum of 40 at that time. but if 40 signatures are needed, then the reform has lost its meaning.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr onesta asked me how i read article 149 (4) of the treaty. i understand that mr posselt and others are saying that we should act, even if we do not respect the rules of procedure. i am very glad that, as the honourable member has argued, either we have a rules of procedure and we follow them, or we do not follow them and then we do not need them. i am the chairman of the rules committee, but this article was drafted by colleagues before me and adopted by an absolute majority in the house. paragraph 4 is clear. it states: 'members who have requested a declaration of their competence shall be taken into account for the purpose of establishing their presence even if they are no longer present in the chamber.' that's obvious. if 40 members who were present at the strasbourg meeting request to have a vote or a quorum checked, they will be added to those present. that's how i read it. if you want to change this, you have to change article 4, but that is the way it is. mr posselt, anyone who reads this must understand that this is the way it is. so, mr president, you have the decision-making power now.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr leinen accused me of proposing to go beyond the rules of procedure. i was there when this was passed, unlike you! that was because, earlier, in the beginning, 40 people would come into the room, ask to be quorum, and then leave. that's what this article is about!
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the kashmir conflict has been a subject of much discussion here, and i must say that it has been a time of hope, of rapprochement between pakistan and india. there was hope that there might be some relief. unfortunately, the internal political crisis in both countries has led to a new hardening of the situation, and we in the european parliament are making a very serious effort to break this hardening. i am very grateful to mr gahler for his efforts, as head of our election observation mission in pakistan, to make pakistan democratic, and for the fact that our contacts with india serve the same purpose, namely to help build confidence. of course, one may ask why we are concerned with mass graves that do not bring the dead back to life and may affect the climate between the two countries. we do this because the only way to achieve real peace is to give victims their due. and victims don't exist with pakistani or indian passports alone. there are casualties on both sides, and the casualties are above all the kashmiri people themselves. that's why we need to investigate these mass graves, that's why we need to find out where the many missing people are whose families are grieving. only in this way can the trust necessary for a genuine peaceful solution involving people be built. kashmir belongs first and foremost to the kashmiris themselves. that is why we should support a solution that finally gives the kashmiri people air to breathe, finally gives political freedom, a reasonable compromise solution, because this is one of the oldest conflicts we have. it has been raging since the second world war, and it is a shame that it has not yet been brought under control. we therefore support all efforts to carry out these investigations and to help the victims to regain their dignity and their rights.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the ahmed transitional government must focus on its real goals: fighting corruption, securing the country and creating the conditions for elections to be held in august at the regional level, in december for the whole country. the elections must be fair, in line with international conventions and give ethnic and religious minorities the chance to participate actively and passively. the commission is also proposing to set up a european electoral observatory to monitor the elections. there is no doubt that extremist attacks must be prevented! the anti-terrorism law, which is new, has to be in line with international law. that is not the case yet. it is currently used to target political persecuted people. with critical citizens and human rights activists being arbitrarily arrested, it is no wonder that fear is running high in bangladesh. arrested persons have a right to due process. human rights organization odhikar has reported that information about mass arrests and ill-treatment is increasing. as a member of the european parliament's saarc delegation, i have had the opportunity to visit bangladesh on several occasions. there were a lot of people here. in this moderate islamic country, there are many well-meaning officials. they are desperately waiting for impulses from outside, namely the european union, the commission and the council. mr president, i congratulate you on your decision to grant the european parliament the right to take a decision. dear neena gill, i wish we could really keep our ercs alive and not always have to say that this is handled by the respective committees. mr matsakis is absolutely right. another step is that all of a sudden, there are no more intergroups. that would be fatal, too. committees cannot do this work. we must take the opportunity to have enough time for this and then not have to do what the poor president has to do now, which is to hammer on it, because we will hopefully have to have double the speaking time in the future so that the european parliament can be known as the voice of human rights and be further strengthened. and that always takes time!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union has a strong interest in democratic conditions and respect for human rights in bangladesh. and i also join the call for free and fair elections to be held soon and for the emergency measures to be lifted. it is clear that in a climate of fear and intimidation there can be no democratic debate. we put our demands to the caretaker governments, that's right, but it must also be pointed out that the political forces in bangladesh also have a kind of unculturedness, and that especially in election campaigns it is not peaceful, but very violent, and election campaigns are also always used to intimidate minorities. so the message here is to all the actors, to the government first and foremost, but also to the parties. however, mr president, i respect your decision, i would just like to point out that our rules of procedure state that 'if the inability to take a decision is established, the matter is not dropped but will be voted on at the next sitting' (rule 149 (3)). i would like to see such votes not with 30 members but with 600, as is always the case with the noon votes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's just a little thing. the point is not to keep 21 december 2008 but to replace it with "the third week of december". that's the exact date. it's a small thing, but we should be factual.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 10 july 2008.
i am not going to go into detail. i would like to begin by welcoming you all and making a few remarks on the plenary session in strasbourg. as you know, the partial collapse of the ceiling of the plenary chamber in strasbourg on 7 august has made it necessary to hold this first plenary session of the european parliament in brussels in september as an exception. i have taken this decision in the interests of the greatest possible security for members and staff, after reviewing the preliminary expertise carried out and after consulting the chairmen of the political groups and the french presidency. the decision also takes account of the need for continuity in the legislative work of the european parliament. according to the preliminary findings, the partial collapse of the retracted interlayer is due to the breakage of components connecting the interlayer to the actual roof structure. the ongoing investigations, carried out by several independent international civil engineering firms commissioned by parliament, will reveal further details and the responsibilities associated with the collapse. these investigations are carried out in close cooperation with the responsible municipal authorities and with a high-level expert on building safety appointed by the french government. the liability and responsibilities between those involved in the construction of the original ceiling will be determined after the final results of the investigation are available. the ceiling in the plenary hall is now completely suspended by a new technique previously approved by the independent experts and the local building authorities. although every effort is made to move forward with the work as quickly as possible, the necessary procedure is lengthy. we hope that all the safety and repair checks will be completed before the second plenary session in september. in all our deliberations and decisions, safety is our paramount concern.
ladies and gentlemen, i'm afraid i have some very sad news to share with you. during the summer we learned with great sadness of the tragic death of our friend and colleague professor bronisław geremek. he was a great polish patriot and a true european. for decades he fought to win for the polish people the fundamental values of democracy, freedom, human rights and the rule of law. his commitment to the democratic opposition and the great popular movement solidarność has borne fruit. for almost two decades now, poland has taken its rightful place among the free and democratic nations of europe and, as we all know, has been a member of the european union since 1 may 2004. his contribution to this cause makes bronisław geremek, a long-standing member of the polish parliament and foreign minister from 1997 to 2000, undoubtedly one of the founding fathers and most important designers of the new poland. he has been a member of the european parliament since 2004. we came to know him as a man who really believed in the european project. it reflected his ideals and convictions, namely those of reconciliation, dialogue and compromise. i greatly admired his unique ability to be close to poland and the european union at the same time. he has always been committed to the integration process, which he considered to be the best solution for the future of his country and our continent. we have lost an extraordinary colleague. his sudden and tragic death has left a hole that will be difficult to fill. i would like to express my deepest condolences to his family, especially his two sons, and to all his friends. we will always honour the memory of bronisław geremek in the european parliament. i am not going to go into detail. it was with great sadness that we learned, also at the beginning of august, of the death of our colleague willi piecyk, just before his 60th birthday. i would like to express our deepest sympathy to the victims on behalf of the european parliament. willi piecyk has been a member of the european parliament since 1992. he was particularly active in the committee on transport and tourism, where he served for many years as the pse group's spokesman. we have just celebrated the first european maritime day with him. at the time, i had the impression that, although i knew he was seriously ill, he seemed to be getting better. but that impression has been deceiving. willi piecyk will be remembered in many ways as the initiator of many important initiatives. in willi piecyk we lose a colleague who is much appreciated and respected by all of us. we will always remember him with gratitude. i am not going to go into detail. i'm sorry to inform you of the death of another dear former colleague. on 4 august our former member maria luisa cassanmagnago cerretti died, who was elected to parliament with me in 1979 and who therefore has a very special memory for me, and who began her work for europe, for unification. she was vice-chairman of the then epp group and held the office of vice-president from 1982 to 1987. she also chaired the political committee of the predecessor committee of the committee on foreign affairs for a period. through her involvement in politics, maria luisa cassanmagnago cerretti has been an inspiration for many women. as a member of the european parliament, she made a valuable contribution to european integration by working with generosity and intellectual courage. we will remember maria luisa cassanmagnago cerretti with affection. ladies and gentlemen, during the summer break, a series of tragic plane crashes occurred. on august 20, 154 people were killed in the worst plane crash in spain in 25 years. only 18 of the 172 people on board the plane, which was en route from madrid's barajas airport to the canary islands, survived the tragedy. the next day i made a statement on behalf of the european parliament. today, i would like to express once again our solidarity and support to the families and friends of those who have died. just a few days after the madrid tragedy, on august 24, another plane crashed after taking off from the kyrgyz capital of bishkek. sixty-eight people died. i would also like to express on behalf of all of you our deepest sympathy to the victims of this and all other tragic accidents. i ask you to rise from your seats for a silent commemoration. (parliament adopted the resolution)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 28 august 2008, pursuant to rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. there are no amendments to this draft, so the agenda is closed.
i would like to thank mr swoboda very much. there was no translation, i think, especially not into english, if i correctly identify the colleagues. i would therefore repeat what mr swoboda said: if the debate on today's summit is not held today but tomorrow, then the debate on social questions should be postponed to the second part-session in september, because in that case the time allotted for the debate on the social package will be used for the debate on today's summit. that's what i heard. are we agreed on that? that's the case. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
our officials will follow the case.
thank you very much. the treaty of lisbon, however, expressly states - i ask for your indulgence in making this point, because i have just made it in my speech to the european council - that the member states of the european union are bound by the principle of energy solidarity. if one country is cut off from the energy supply by another, then everyone else has to help. that is why it is important that this treaty be ratified. i'm sorry to say this, but the contract is very important for energy issues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. despite great efforts and worldwide initiatives to bring justice to the former yukos owners mikhail khodorkovsky and platon lebedev, their fate remains unchanged. freedom is better than no freedom, said the newly elected president medvedev. this should be the basis for russia in the future, as should a reform of the judicial system and the necessary improvement of prison conditions. but unfortunately, the recent decision in the khodorkovsky case shows that the hopes for more rule of law in russia are not being fulfilled. the recent military policy decisions regarding georgia and nato indicate that the new putin-medvedev power duo has ushered in a new ice age not only in domestic politics but also in foreign policy. we have to be careful!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. after yesterday's sunday service in my hometown, our indian priest reported a terrible crime in his homeland. for a week now, christians in the eastern indian state of orissa have been persecuted, humiliated, abused and murdered. by the end of last week, there were 26 dead, 41 churches destroyed, four monasteries burned and many christian homes destroyed. people are hiding in the forest, hoping the hindu fanatics won't find them. this is not the first attack on christians, which is why there are now about 60,000 christians in orissa on the run. the current conflict was triggered by the assassination of a spiritual leader of the world hindutva on august 23. father saji from my village called the congregation to prayer. we can do more. i condemn this crime against humanity in the strongest terms. the european parliament must call on the indian state to guarantee the right to life and liberty of the christians in orissa.
acting president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to speak before you today and to tell you of my deep attachment to the values of the european union. at the heart of these values is, of course, justice. you have wished to open your plenary session with a joint debate on justice issues, which is a sign of the interest your assembly takes in european judicial cooperation and the protection of fundamental rights. i am all the more sensitive to that and i thank you for it. as you said, madam president, three texts are on the agenda today: the decision on the european judicial network, the decision on eurojust and the framework decision on the enforcement of judgments in default. these three texts will advance judicial cooperation within the european union, and they will also change the way the member states work. these three initiatives are also awaited by those who are at the service of justice in our countries. the jha council meeting of 25 july reached political agreement on the draft decisions on the european judicial network and the strengthening of eurojust. the joint efforts of the slovenian and french presidencies have made it possible to achieve this in less than a year. these two draft decisions are aimed at greater protection of european citizens and at strengthening judicial cooperation in criminal matters. it is a sign of a european union which acts and progresses taking into account fundamental freedoms and rights. as regards the european judicial network, the draft decision which should replace the 1998 joint action clarifies the obligations of eurojust and the network. it takes account of the wish of the member states to maintain its two structures and to strengthen their complementarity. the secure communication channels between eurojust and the judicial network will allow for effective judicial cooperation and greater mutual trust. the european judicial network is a well-known and recognised tool, it has proved its usefulness in promoting contacts between the actors on the ground, and the report by your colleague, sylvia kaufmann, emphasises the usefulness of the network and its success. it highlights the adaptability of the network to the needs of, in particular, the judiciary. the report also stresses the need to maintain this flexibility and the decentralised way of operating. madam president, you have taken up and supported the main lines of the original proposal, and i thank you for that. you also mention some concerns. you have rightly said that the security of telecommunications must be done in strict compliance with the protection of personal data, and we agree. i can assure you that the council will be very attentive to the proposals which your parliament will adopt. this streamlining of the functioning of the european judicial network goes hand in hand with the strengthening of eurojust. one doesn't go without the other. after six years of operation of eurojust, experience shows that there is a need to improve the functioning of this judicial cooperation unit. eurojust is not sufficiently informed, particularly in the field of terrorism. the powers of the national members are not harmonised and eurojust's operational capacity is not sufficiently developed. the text on which a comprehensive political agreement was reached on 25 july is an essential step in the construction of the european judicial area. as you know, the fight against all forms of serious crime is a priority for the european union. for example, eurojust received 14 cases of trafficking in human beings in 2004 and 71 in 2007. this is proof that we must have effective tools to combat trafficking of unprecedented proportions, which is affecting thousands of our fellow citizens. eurojust must also become a leading unit of european judicial cooperation. this text, which the jha council agreed on, will make eurojust more operational and responsive, and is therefore an important step forward for us. i would like to pay particular tribute to the work done by your colleague, renate weber, and thank her for her support. i know his commitment and his desire to make this proposal work. with the strengthening of eurojust, the prerogatives of the national members will be strengthened. an emergency coordination mechanism will be established and the transmission of information will be improved to better respond to the challenges posed by new forms of crime. some would have liked an even more ambitious approach. the institutional framework does not allow this, so all possibilities must be used to strengthen eurojust, at all times, without delay. some of your concerns have also been addressed. the information your parliament receives in connection with the operation of eurojust in this capacity will be carefully considered. as regards the application of the principle of mutual recognition, which is also one of the cornerstones of the construction of an area of justice, freedom and security, the framework decision on the enforcement of judgments in default will strengthen existing instruments, such as the european arrest warrant. a judgment given in the absence of the person by a member state must be enforceable throughout the european union. the framework decision will also be accompanied by a strengthening of the procedural rights of individuals. it is a question of being able to execute default sentences while respecting the rights of the defence. the aim of this framework decision is not to amend national regulations, however, but of course to improve the enforcement of judgments in default. your report, mr france, stresses the need to harmonize the existing instruments, the right to be heard during the procedure must be guaranteed. the diversity of legal systems must be respected, i am thinking, for example, of the manner in which the summons is issued. the council therefore shares these concerns and this project is therefore a relaunch of the joint reflection on strengthening the fundamental guarantees within the european union. i know that this is a matter which is very close to your parliament. the council will examine your proposals, most of which are in line with the text which was the subject of political agreement in the council. this is particularly the case with the proposals concerning representation by a lawyer and the right to a new trial. these amendments are undoubtedly improvements on the original proposal. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the council is very attentive to the opinions which will be adopted this week and i want to assure you once again of the willingness of the presidency to work with your parliament. we must go hand in hand, and i do not forget that you are the representatives of the peoples of europe. through these three texts, judicial cooperation in criminal matters is advancing and the common good is advancing in europe.
vice-president of the commission. - as you have just said, madam minister, we are now taking an essential step in the constitution of the european judicial area we so much want, and the european parliament is making a very valuable contribution to this. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mrs kaufmann, mrs weber and mr france, for their excellent reports on the three initiatives. these documents show that the european parliament supports the proposals put forward by the member states and i am also pleased, madam minister, that the council meeting of 25 july was so fruitful, with political agreement on the three texts. the commission supports these three initiatives and we have endeavoured to contribute constructively to the council's work. as regards eurojust and the european judicial network, the member states which took as their starting point our october 2007 communication on the subject have shown this concern for convergence. a number of proposals have been incorporated into the two member states' initiatives: harmonisation of the powers of the national members of eurojust, strengthening of the role of the college in cases of conflict of competence, improvement of the flow of information from the national level to eurojust and the possibility of seconding eurojust liaison magistrates to third countries. many of the amendments proposed in the very useful reports by mrs kaufmann and mrs weber have already been taken up in the council's discussions. amendment no 32 to the eurojust decision, contained in mrs weber's report, aims to improve the level of data protection in third countries cooperating with eurojust. this cooperation will be evaluated not only at the time of the conclusion of the agreement but also after its entry into force. the commission suggested that this idea be taken up and the draft decision was amended accordingly. it states that the cooperation agreement must include provisions on monitoring its application, including the application of data protection provisions. i will give another example: amendment no 38 to the decision on the european judicial network, which is set out in mrs kaufmann's report. as mrs rachida dati has pointed out, the purpose of this amendment is to inform the european parliament every two years about the activities of the european judicial network. this amendment was supported by the commission and is part of the text of the draft decision. as you know, the council reached political agreement on the initiatives relating to eurojust and the network. i hope that the council will soon formally adopt these instruments and, just as importantly, that the member states will take the necessary steps to fully implement the decisions in their national legal systems. as regards the french report on the implementation of decisions taken in default, i note that most of the amendments, in their wording, or at least in their spirit, correspond to the text adopted by the jha council on 5 and 6 june. these are some of the comments, madam president, and i shall of course be very attentive to all the suggestions made by parliament. but i am very pleased that we are starting this session with extremely positive work for the future of the european judicial area.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to take all my speaking time right now. i am glad that the president of the council and the vice-president of the commission are here. the committee unanimously adopted my report on the judicial network. there has been very constructive cooperation and i would like to thank everyone for it, in particular mr popa, mrs gebhardt and mrs weber, the eurojust rapporteur. the european judicial network ejn has now been in existence for ten years. it's been proven in practice. it has continued to be important since the creation of eurojust in 2002. the ejn is not concerned with coordinating investigations, but with providing direct contacts, assistance in legal aid procedures and information. it is therefore important to leave the flexible decentralised structure of the ejn intact. changes should be made only where necessary or where they are the result of the practice of recent years. an example of this is the establishment of national contact points, which perform coordinating functions within their member state and are responsible for liaising with the ejn secretariat. an important innovation is the establishment of secure telecommunications links. i was pleased to hear that the president-in-office of the council had also raised this question. personal data, such as sensitive data such as fingerprints, are exchanged between the authorities of the member states in the context of a european arrest warrant. in order to ensure security, secure telecommunications channels are needed, since such data cannot be transmitted by fax, for example. the ejn was established in 1998 with the aim of creating a secure telecommunications system, but the details were not agreed, apparently also for cost reasons. the report proposes that secure telecommunications be introduced initially only for the contact points. however, in order to ensure that all contacts between competent authorities are as direct as possible, a second step should also consider the possibility of involving all competent authorities responsible for legal aid in their respective member states in the secure telecommunications. the report makes reference to the relevant data protection provisions because of the sensitivity of the data, and i would like to stress once again the importance of a strong framework decision on the protection of personal data in the context of the third pillar. this would apply to the exchange of data between the member states' respective contact points. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a framework decision on the protection of personal data. the functioning of the ejn depends to a large extent on the contact points. therefore, guidelines were developed to ensure that the selection of contact points should be based on certain criteria. those acting as contact points should have a good command of at least one other language of the european union and experience both in the field of international cooperation in criminal matters and in the judicial, prosecutorial or other judicial field. it is important that member states follow these guidelines and, of course, they must also ensure that the contact points have sufficient resources. in order to improve cooperation between the ejn and eurojust and to coordinate their activities, members of eurojust should be able to attend the meetings of the ejn upon invitation and vice versa. the eurojust decision sets out the timing of the notification of cases by the judicial authorities of the member states, including the ejn contact points. this decision complements this obligation by requiring both the ejn and eurojust to inform each other of all cases where they consider that the other body is better placed to deal with the specific case. this flexible and needs-based system aims to avoid excessive notification by national authorities to eurojust and at the same time to 'flood' eurojust with information that the authority cannot process. finally, as regards reporting on the management and operation of the network, this should be done by the ejn itself, not only to the council and commission, of course, but also to parliament. i am glad that the commission is expressly supporting this. this decision adapts the european judicial network to developments in recent years and further defines its relationship with eurojust. in this way, the european judicial network will be able to cope with the task of judicial cooperation in criminal matters, including and in particular in the event that the treaty of lisbon may still enter into force, thereby bringing the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters into the community.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i am very pleased that we can discuss such an important package together today and that we will probably take decisions tomorrow by a very large majority. i would like to thank in particular my two rapporteurs, for whom i was a shadow rapporteur, mrs kaufmann and mrs weber, for their excellent cooperation, because this is a basic condition for us to be able to do a good job. this good work is very important in this area and i am also pleased that the european judicial network has succeeded in ensuring that the work being done there is actually being continued. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european centre for the development of vocational training. and that's what we wanted. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, as more and more data is exchanged, of course, data protection becomes more and more important, and so does the security of telecommunications and the exchange of this data. i am therefore very pleased that parliament, the commission and the council have reached an agreement, which is very important and which i can only welcome. i am also very pleased that we will be able to have a very large majority in all the reports tomorrow. the extension we have proposed, which i hope the council and the commission will agree to, the addition by parliament, which we owe to mrs weber, of the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography to the list of facts which have not been included so far, is, in my view, a very important issue in our society, which i would like to stress once again. what is particularly important for us social democrats in this context - but i think a solution has also been found - is that we ensure that this area is not just about organised crime, but serious crime. because it's important that we don't have to prove first that it's organized crime, but that we can, through the sharing of information, prove that maybe there is organized crime somewhere. that cannot be a prerequisite. i think that was a small misunderstanding between the groups and i wanted to clarify it again. i hope and i am sure that we can move forward in a good, positive way, which i very much welcome.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also believe that we have received an excellent result from our rapporteur, which ensures safety on the one hand and practicality on the other. but we also heard today that, if we look to the future, one of the big issues is the overstayers, people who come in with a legal visa and then just stay here and disappear. i would therefore like to bring the following into the debate: if the entry and exit system is to work in the long term, then we will not be able to get around systematic checks. we must therefore deal with this issue at the external borders of europe.
this debate will continue after the debate on georgia.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in georgia.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you have kindly waited until the extraordinary european council has finished and i am in a hurry to come and present the results. we wanted - the french presidency wanted - that you be immediately informed of the decisions taken, not only because we want to keep a constant record of our work, but also because the european parliament has been extremely active on the georgian question for several months. thank you, commissioner. we wanted to thank you for this and to tell you what happened, as you know, at the council meeting on 13 august and at the foreign affairs committee meeting on 20 august, where jean-pierre jouyet came to present our provisional conclusions. i would remind you that the conflict began 20 years ago, in 1991/92, but the last phase of the conflict began on the night of 7/8 august. it would be good to look back at this very special beginning, and it would be necessary for journalists and historians to look at the facts, at the way in which they took place in ossetia and more particularly in tskhinvali, the capital of south ossetia. so the battle raged through the night, then on 9 and 10 august, and we decided with my colleague alexander stubb, the finnish foreign minister, who is also the chairman of the osce, to meet in tbilisi from sunday 10 august. we have proposed to president saakashvili a ceasefire agreement, which he has accepted. of course, i'm going over quickly, but it was important, about what we found there, what we saw in gori, on the roads, in that painful episode of the entry and rapid penetration of russian troops. at the moment, the first thing to say is that we feared the arrival of russian troops in tbilisi. the troops were in gori, which is 45 or 50 kilometers from tbilisi. the road was straight and there weren't many obstacles. and so we thought, and we had some reason to think, that the purpose of the russian troops was, as they said, to respond to the provocation and liberate south ossetia, but also to go to tbilisi and impose a change of government. so it was absolutely necessary, or at least we thought it was, that the troops stop and the ceasefire should come as soon as possible. we wanted to see a ceasefire as soon as possible. i joined president sarkozy in moscow the next day, but before that, after speaking with refugees on the georgian side and with the victims i met in the gori hospital, i held out, the presidency of the european union wanted to go and listen to the story of the refugees on the other side, in north ossetia, who came from south ossetia after the bombing of tskhinvali on the night of 7 to 8 august. and i've heard stories that, unfortunately, were similar in terms of suffering but, obviously, had very different interpretations. we met with president sarkozy in moscow, where there were long talks, for five hours, between president medvedev, prime minister putin, the minister of foreign affairs, sergey lavrov, president sarkozy and myself. at the end of these rather tough discussions, there was a press conference, during which president sarkozy and president medvedev explained the six points that made up the french protocol of agreement, a protocol that had to be brought back to tbilisi for acceptance, since changes had taken place between this first round trip and what was to be our last stay in tbilisi the next day. two amendments were accepted by president medvedev and in particular one point on the final status, which he understandably did not want to be included in the text. the ceasefire agreement was accepted by president saakashvili and thanks to this mediation, which you can at least recognize that, even if it was not perfect - because nothing is perfect in a situation like this - it was quick. this mediation has thus brought about an effective ceasefire, with a few sad exceptions. on the ground the russian troops because it was the second of the six points of the document began to withdraw on august 21, that is to say in reality almost eight days later. but there were movements that were interpreted differently, as is always the case, because tanks came in one direction and then also came in the other. today, this withdrawal is not complete. i don't know if it's finished, but it's definitely not done in full. the war ended rather quickly, because on 10 and 11 august the major operations of the war, the operations of the war, were actually completed, according to a number of observers, including our french ambassador, eric fournier, who is here. but what was not finished, and what caused the damage, were the actions of the militias of ossetia, abkhazia, who, behind the russian troops, of course, looted and sometimes killed, although, i must say with great caution, the damage was not considerable. i mean, the damage from the bombing wasn't that extensive. they are still far too serious, far too large, they have caused far too many casualties, but compared to what we were told, the damage was not as great as we feared, which is a good thing. what we didn't see, and what we should have seen, and the accounts were very partial, is what had happened in ossetia. because if it was possible to see, quite quickly, things in georgia, it was not possible to enter ossetia, at least not easily, and only a few managed to do so. in fact, the accounts of each of them differed greatly. so the ceasefire and this was the first of the six points was immediate and effective. there was a temporary ceasefire and a permanent ceasefire. the second point was the withdrawal of troops. it was specified that the withdrawal concerned, for the georgian troops, the withdrawal to their barracks and, for the russian troops, the withdrawal beyond the lines that prevailed before the crisis. there were a number of other points including access to humanitarian aid for all victims. the specific points which were problematic were point 5 and point 6. we had agreed in our negotiations to a zone around the border between south ossetia and georgia so that, temporarily, while waiting for the osce or eu volunteer observers, russian patrols would be tolerated. after that, it was necessary to write a specific letter from president sarkozy, which was published, in agreement with president saakashvili, to specify that it was in the immediate vicinity of the border. the border is in some places two kilometers from the main road that crosses georgia, so it is not easy. so there were a few points that had been agreed upon while waiting - it was very specific in the text - for the arrival of the international observers. we have put "observers" not "peace keepers", all of this will obviously have to be clarified. and then, point 6, which was, in some ways, the most important, concerned the political settlement and the discussions, the international negotiations, which were to preside over the political settlement. so this memorandum of understanding, which was signed by president saakashvili, through, incidentally, mrs condoleezza rice - because the first document was signed but it was amended - then the document with mr medvedev, finally the third and last document with president saakashvili, we did not have it signed. it was midnight or one o'clock in the morning, there was a big demonstration. finally, we did not have it signed, it had to be signed afterwards, after some corrections, and it was mrs condoleezza rice who came to meet us in paris and to whom we handed the document so that it - the document, if i may say so, final in six points - could be signed by president saakashvili. the immediate result was a ceasefire! the less immediate but still extremely rapid result was the incomplete withdrawal of russian troops. and then the other points will now be the subject of our full attention, the attention of the 27 countries that make up the european union, and of this parliament in particular, since the document has just been accepted. i would remind you that the conclusions of the first extraordinary council, the first council of foreign ministers, had already been accepted by the 27 countries and provided for our presence, the physical presence of the european union on the ground. and since then we have entrusted javier solana with the task of guiding this part of the cfsp. observers, two or four frenchmen, have already been sent, i think, in the framework of the osce, which was present, or in a wider framework, which i hope will be accepted since yesterday, in a conversation between president sarkozy and president medvedev, he indicated that he would accept or even wish that there should be observers from the european union, and we are working towards that. so a horribly quick result: in three days a ceasefire, troops stopped, which still threatened tbilisi, but after a few days, roughly eight days, with some movements before the end of those eight days, the russian troops withdrew towards ossetia and towards abkhazia. now i am quite ready to answer all your questions, but as there are twenty-five thousand, it will take us a very long time, which i did not think i would do, with the real happiness that will be mine. i would like to say a word to you from the document accepted now. of course, this extraordinary council, i remind you, has a precedent, convened in august 2003, namely the situation in iraq. the unity of the european union was undermined, to say the least, at this extraordinary council. there, in 2008, unity prevailed and it was not as difficult as we thought to propose a text and get it accepted, between those who absolutely wanted sanctions - what sanctions? what for? - and those who absolutely wanted to maintain, and without sanctions, the dialogue with russia. and you will see that this text is firm on condemnation but leaves the door open and that we did not wish to have a cold war exercise, as some people suggest. we wanted to maintain the links so that a political negotiation could begin, which was essential for us. so we have called this european council because the president of the french republic, the president of the union, has considered that the georgian crisis is serious and concerns europeans first and foremost. georgia is not in the european union, nor is ukraine, i remind you. but several member states have also requested this meeting and it is on our doorstep. i think we were well inspired because nobody outside the european union, in our view, would have been able to do that. the european union was to take over the whole file. this does not mean that we were cut off from other forces - which was not the case, of course - but it was up to us to show initiative, it was up to us to show that the european union was reactive, especially, moreover, in a situation where the institutional difficulties are not resolved. the european union has thus demonstrated at the highest level that it is united and that it is willing to assume its responsibilities fully. i think that compared to the previous one in 2003, this is an improvement. what are the main results of this council? of course, and you will see in the text the condemnation of the military actions and the disproportionate nature of the russian response. some wanted the series of provocations, which probably preceded the bombing of tskhinvali, to be denounced. it is very easy to denounce both sides, but what is important, when we want to carry out a peace mission, is that both sides agree to stop fighting. so, the russian overreaction has been highlighted and again, we'll need those who were there to tell us how it really went down. it is certainly not a success on the part of georgia, which had been warned very widely, and especially by the americans, to have provoked this outburst, even if it was a provocation, that this outburst itself is very prepared, which i deeply ignore. when i went to see the russian refugees on the other side, in north ossetia, i saw huge convoys, big convoys, with tanks and military cars, etc. heading towards the border. were they predisposed, were they not? i'll leave it to you to investigate for yourselves, but it seems that they were not far away after all. the condemnation, therefore, of the military actions and their disproportionate nature, the unanimous condemnation by the heads of state and government of the 27 member states of the recognition of the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia and the recall of the european union's attachment to the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia, as recognised by international law and the resolutions of the united nations security council. the reaffirmation, as the only central document, of the six-point agreement reached on 12 august, which the european council called for to be fully implemented. we have made a firm commitment to implement this roadmap. the european union's willingness to participate in the international monitoring mechanism provided for in paragraph 5 of this agreement, which i have mentioned to you, both in the context of an osce mission and through a commitment under the european security and defence policy, the terms of which will have to be defined, and which are, moreover, on the right track, not only to be defined, but, i believe, things are moving very fast. i will not go into all the positions of the two sides, but again, they were not fundamentally different. the nuances: is the reference to international law and the prohibition of changing the borders of a neighbouring country by force a sanction? no, it's not a punishment, it's a basic one. so there were not many differences, there were, or there were not, and we accepted them in the end, requests to include because you know that on the 9th there is a meeting between the european union and ukraine, and it is the 8th that we are going to meet in moscow with mr barroso, javier solana and president sarkozy - so we included this concern. so we have a meeting on the 8th in moscow and on the 8th in tbilisi, moscow and then tbilisi, to see, and we hope that the finding will be positive, that the russian troops have withdrawn behind the lines assigned to them, that is, beyond the border between ossetia and georgia and that the remaining points around the port of poti, the "checkpoints", the remaining points around the border of ossetia and georgia inside georgian territory, have been replaced or will be able to be replaced immediately, by international observers. that's what we're waiting for. everyone has accepted this meeting, which would therefore complete the implementation of the six points of the memorandum of understanding, and it is on this basis that we will judge the goodwill and political follow-up, with a conference that we will propose at that time, an international conference, with, why not - since for almost twenty years the united nations has been involved in this matter, rather in abkhazia than in ossetia for that matter - the involvement of a number of partners so that political negotiations can begin. mr medvedev also agreed, which is a very good point, that the refugees can return. and not just the refugees who left since these recent events, which is less than a month ago, but the refugees who left since the 1990s. you will tell me that this is, after all, extremely questionable, since, where are they, whether they will be able to return, whether they need to return, whether they have the desire to return, etc. but in any case, if we are to speak of self-determination of peoples, it was necessary to point out that all these refugees came either from abkhazia or from ossetia. this has been accepted, and we shall see to what extent this agreement can be implemented. i'll give you a few points and then i think we can just talk. i will give you the points which have been amended or slightly changed, because for the rest you can imagine: "seriously concerned about the conflict"... etc. it recalled that the european council strongly condemned russia's unilateral decision to recognise the independence of abkhazia and south ossetia, that this decision was unacceptable and called on the other states not to recognise this proclaimed independence and asked the commission to examine the practical consequences. it recalled that a peaceful and lasting solution to the conflict in georgia must be based on full respect for the principles of independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity recognised by international law, the final act of the helsinki conference on security and cooperation in europe and the three security council resolutions. it stresses that each state in europe has the right to determine its foreign policy and alliances, etc., freely. welcomes the fact that the six-point agreement reached on 12 august, based on the mediation efforts of the european union, has led to a ceasefire, better delivery of humanitarian aid and a substantial withdrawal of russian military forces. the implementation of this plan must be complete, etc. this has not been discussed. jean-pierre, you were saying something about the british amendment on georgia, and i said: the european union has already provided urgent aid, it is prepared to provide aid for reconstruction in georgia, including in the areas of south ossetia and abkhazia; is ready to support confidence-building measures and the development of regional cooperation; decides also to consider strengthening its relationship with georgia, including through visa facilitation and the possible establishment of a full and deep free trade area as soon as the conditions are met; the european union will take the initiative of convening an international conference to assist the reconstruction of georgia at an early date and asks the council and the commission to begin preparations for it. an additional point: the impact of the current crisis on the whole region, regional cooperation. point 8: the european council decides on the appointment of a european union special representative for the crisis in georgia and requests the council to take the necessary measures to this end. and let me add: recent events illustrate the need for europe to step up its efforts in the field of energy security; the european council invites the council, in cooperation with the commission, to examine the initiatives to be taken to this end, in particular as regards the diversification of energy sources and supply routes. and finally, at the request of the germans, the poles and a number of other countries, the final text reads: 'we call on russia to make this fundamental choice with us of mutual interest, understanding and cooperation. we are convinced that it is in its own interests not to isolate itself from europe. the european union, for its part, has shown itself to be willing to cooperate and to cooperate in accordance with the principles and values which underpin it. we expect russia to behave responsibly and to be true to all its commitments. the union will remain vigilant, the european council calls on the council, together with the commission, to examine carefully and in depth the situation and the various dimensions of the eu-russia relationship. this evaluation must be initiated now and continued. the european council gives its president a mandate to continue discussions with a view to the full implementation of the six-point agreement. to this end, the president of the european council will travel to moscow on 8 september, accompanied by the president of the commission and the high representative. until the withdrawal of troops from their pre-august 7 positions is completed, the meetings for the negotiation of the partnership agreement are postponed. " and there is a small addition to point 3: 'the council expects results for the forthcoming eu-ukraine summit. pending the outcome of this summit, our institutional cooperation with ukraine will be intensified and accelerated. " (applause) " i'm going to go with the
member of the commission. - mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to welcome the political commitment of the european parliament to georgia and i would also like to begin by welcoming the efforts of the french presidency and, above all, the rapidity of the actions taken at the time of the crisis. it is true that the european union, with the negotiation of a ceasefire and the prompt implementation of humanitarian aid, in particular by the commission, has shown its effectiveness. the european council today was, i believe, very important and in the face of the complexity of the issues raised by this conflict, the european union must, and should, react collectively and define by common accord the answers to be given to them. i'll be brief because a lot has already been said. our meeting today has, i think, sent a very clear message about georgia, and to georgia, as well as to russia, about our capacity to respond to crisis situations and the unity of the european union. that's what we've always asked for. secondly, our unity has also been expressed in defending our values. as i have already said, from the beginning of the crisis the commission has contributed to the european union's efforts to stabilise the humanitarian and security situation in georgia in a way that i believe is quite significant. humanitarian aid: we have immediately made available eur 6 million to meet the immediate needs of all the civilian populations affected by the conflict. to this must be added almost nine million euros made available in the meantime by the member states. we have thus been able to cover all the humanitarian needs of the first response. as regards reconstruction aid, we sent a mission of commission experts last week to carry out an initial assessment of needs and, according to our initial assessments, which do not include the areas under russian control, the material damage is considerably less than forecast. some 15 million euros are needed for reconstruction and rehabilitation. but the most important need is the fate of the 22,000 people who have recently been displaced by the conflict. some €110 million would be needed to meet the needs. it is important that the union shows itself ready to provide real support to georgia, which is a sign of our political determination to deepen our relations. firstly, the council has decided to consider a substantial increase in our financial aid to georgia, particularly for reconstruction, as i have just mentioned, and for refugees. we are currently assessing the reserves that could be mobilised quickly from the 2008 budget allocations. but it is certain that without an extraordinary budgetary allocation we will not be able to mobilise the necessary funds. i welcome the general political support we have received today from president pöttering in this regard. an international donor conference will also be necessary to give a strong signal of confidence to investors. it also seems to me more important than ever to strengthen the instruments of the neighbourhood policy to stabilise georgia. and on the basis of the conclusions of the european council, we will accelerate our efforts to prepare, once the conditions are met, for the creation of a free trade area and the facilitation of the issuing of short-stay visas. the latter will of course also be linked to a readmission agreement and it remains essential to encourage georgia's commitments to democracy, the rule of law and freedom of expression, and it is crucial to accelerate democratic reforms and political pluralism. as regards security stabilisation and implementation of the armistice agreement, we do indeed support the civilian esdp observation mission which has already been mentioned, which must be closely linked to other union actions, such as reconstruction. now a word on relations with russia. russia's actions raise wider questions about the nature of our relations in both the short and long term. its failure to date to honour the six-point plan brokered by the presidency and its decision to recognise abkhazia and south ossetia are against the basic principles that underpin international relations. we have been seeking to rework our relations into a modern partnership to reflect our growing economic integration. i think fundamental mutual interests are at stake economic interdependence, the need to find common approaches on non-proliferation or counterterrorism or many other international issues so keeping channels of communication open with russia was and is vital. however, relations with russia cannot remain business as usual in light of recent events. therefore it was important to strike the right balance between maintaining channels of communication and sending a clear signal to russia. i think the right approach is for our existing joint work and dialogues to continue but for new initiatives to be put on hold. therefore the commission will now review all new initiatives under way to deepen our relations, which will then allow the council to draw conclusions ahead of the nice summit in november. regarding longterm implications, recent events will give new importance to some areas of policy. our commitment in june to developing an eastern partnership and a european neighbourhood policy does indeed demonstrate the eu's legitimate interests in the region. these policies underline the fact that we will not accept new dividing lines in europe and that partners like georgia, ukraine and moldova can count on our support for their territorial integrity and sovereignty. we are ready to accelerate and also to submit as soon as possible new proposals for a new eastern partnership, certainly before the end of the year but maybe even in the late autumn. secondly - and this is my last point - energy is at the heart of our relations with russia. what we do on energy inside europe will directly shape our relations with russia, so we must keep up the momentum to develop a coherent and strategic energy policy for europe. in conclusion, recent events have posed a real challenge to the european union. in the coming months, i think we will need to continue to show that we can rise together to the tasks ahead. today has been a very important marker. only through coherent strategy, united positions and concerted action can we defend european interests and values. i applaud parliament's commitment, and trust that we will all play our parts in ensuring that the union maintains a strong and a united front.
i would now like to say to the next speaker that we will be dealing with which group is next in the conference of presidents next time, because there is already an objection. we shall do so today, so that it is now mr szymański's turn for the union for a europe of nations. we shall deal with this question on thursday, because no one can tell me why this is so. the question must be settled systematically.
acting president of the council. - i understand that my great fault, mr. watson, was to have spoken of this podium. if that's all you have to blame me for, i'll make amends, because the last time i came here, i spoke from this podium and i wasn't head of state. well, everybody can be wrong. there are a number of questions i could try to answer and others, really, for which i will be unable to. it is obvious, mr daul, that we all want, and this crisis is one of the priorities of the french presidency, that a european defence policy be successfully implemented. what does "well" mean? in any case, let us start again with the process which, starting from saint-malo, has enabled us to have at least one agreement, and then to build all this, joint training, etc. we're going to do it, i hope. in any case, it is necessary, but not because this crisis deserved a military response. no, not at all! because that would have been worse than thinking of responding to the russian invasion of georgia with a military response. i do not think that the ships that have arrived in the black sea have been a real answer, some have missiles, the ships too, etc. i don't think that's the right thing to do. the french presidency believes the opposite. but on the other hand, in order to have a strong european defence, and we need it, the treaty of lisbon must be accepted, and that brings us back to our institutional difficulties. yes, it is absolutely essential that we find a way out of this institutional crisis. nato, frankly, i don't think that's the answer right now. that is a false answer, because if we had voted for the map in bucharest, it would have made no difference at all, because i do not think anyone was prepared to go to war for georgia. i say this without cynicism. i say this because it was the reasoning which, at the origin of all the meetings and conversations we have had, has been truly unanimous. this does not mean - as we have said - that neither georgia nor ukraine have the right to become members of nato. but there's something else to consider. it is difficult to say now, so i will be extremely discreet about this, but there is a country, russia, which for the last twenty years has felt that it has been treated badly. i think that on the one hand, particularly here with the european union, it was a little bit true. we have not found the language to speak to russia. we may not have succeeded, but i think that, in any case, we have not seen enough that changes have taken place, because after all, georgia, twenty years ago, was also in the soviet orbit, it was also a communist country. and on both sides, there is a truly unfinished exercise in democracy. i think that, as with all countries, the problem will arise later for ukraine and georgia, but i do not think that would have been the answer. on the other hand, you are right, we must strengthen our relations with ukraine, as is mentioned in this paper and which, incidentally, also applies to georgia. we'll talk about the privileged partnership later. i would like to say to mr swoboda that i was determined to go and see stalin's house in gori because it is in gori. he was born in this place. so we can say that he drew on the map the little red circles to mark that there were possible autonomy, at least communities that were not. he knew the area well and already ossetia and abkhazia, did not get along with the georgians or with the rest of the environment. we didn't wait for this crisis to see that there were conflicts. what's worse than the balkans? the caucasus. what's worse than the caucasus? the balkans. i do not know, but what is happening there is still very rich and if we go a little further, since we think about what happened in chechnya, which i deeply deplore, we realize that the chechens' allies were the abkhaz against georgia. let's leave all that in history, but it may be necessary to return to it. nothing justifies, you said it and i agree with that, nothing justifies this reaction, nothing. but we'll have to see how this succession of provocations unfolded, because, frankly, the accounts are so divergent that we're very embarrassed. when we're in moscow and we're negotiating this document, we say, "how?" should we have let our people die and allowed the bombing? remember the first few digits. i'm not discussing them because i really have no way of checking, but the russians immediately said 1,000 to 2,000 dead, which is probably not true, because the only people who went there, that is human rights watch, said a few hundred. they've reported hundreds, even dozens. i don't know, man. anyway, it was a reaction that, theoretically, was justified by the very high number of victims and once again, i went to listen to the refugees in north ossetia and the accounts were frightening. the grenades in the basement where the kids were hiding, i didn't invent them. maybe it wasn't true, but still, there's an accent that doesn't go wrong. refugees, i've seen a lot of them in my life. they were completely scared, they had walked, for two days, this way through the tunnel. this must also be checked. so a neighbourhood policy, you are quite right, but that is what the turks are trying to do at the moment. the turks have set up what they call a regional platform and they want to be talked to by russia, which has already accepted, azerbaijan, armenia, and - they are in charge of this - obviously georgia and turkey. i think it is a good idea and i have agreed, on behalf of the presidency, to meet them very soon. mr babachan was supposed to be here today so that we could see how we could exchange our experiences, but i really do share your analysis of the need for a neighbourhood policy. i need to get mrs. benita ferrero-waldner to approve of me, too. it's the right thing to do. he's our great neighbor. and if we are not able to find ways of dialogue with russia, we will have a very difficult time, especially since you heard mr medvedev say yesterday that sanctions can be applied in both directions and that he too knew how to do it. the sanctions, when on the one hand you supply the gas and on the other hand you do not want to receive it, are not exactly the same. so we have to be realistic about this. he's the one who turns the tap, not us. mr watson, i share your sentiment on the figures you have given. what did mr saakashvili do? when we had a little chat with him, since i saw him twice, he said that he had - well, let's not get into that discussion, because i would certainly be biased and i don't have enough information - but he said that he had been forced to respond to provocations. he saw the others across the street preparing the batteries, and especially the grad rockets. they arrived and settled in the georgian villages around the capital of ossetia. who to believe? i don't know, man. at any rate, some advisers said it didn't happen at all the way the international press is reporting. not a lot of people are credible in this case, really. as an observer, you know the problem is not solved. we tried and javier solana says we should call them observers, so we call them observers and in the text, it's marked observers. the peacekeepers are another matter, because that would require the russians to completely withdraw those who took part in the battle, but in the resolutions both in abkhazia and ossetia there were two-thirds, one-third in all. and two-thirds were peacekeepers, russian peacekeepers and the rest georgians and each other accusing, accusing the peacekeepers who were decided by the osce and the un, of having participated on both sides, from the beginning of the battle. so it seems to me that it can't go on like this and sending peacekeepers is a more difficult operation that we will try to put together, of course, but for the moment it's going to be difficult. international conference to resolve frozen conflicts well, for now, let's try to have a conference on ossetia, which is the most urgent, and then abkhazia. on passports, i don't know who brought up this passport issue. yes, passports are distributed, were distributed really very very widely, and so the people i saw, the ossetian refugees felt like russian citizens, which is obviously very perverse. they felt they were russian citizens, they were welcomed into russia and they were defended as russian citizens. when we know that this is apparently happening in the same way in crimea, we can only be very worried. so we're going to have to approach this problem with the russians in an extremely subtle and determined way. they're distributing to populations they think are russian. but we cannot say that without remembering that the borders of russia were drawn rather arbitrarily between mr gorbachev and mr yeltsin, at a leisurely pace and without regard to history. so i will not go into this problem, i do not want to dwell on the fact that kiev was the capital of russia after all and that crimea is the access to warm seas. but if we thought that the russians would abandon the only tunnel that runs between north ossetia and south ossetia, that is, that crosses the caucasus, it was a mistake. we must understand these contradictions of history and these contradictions of geography too, not at all to give satisfaction to one or the other. the presidency of the european union has not made a moral judgment on either side. it was said that this was excessive, that this was not the way to solve the problem, that the city should not be bombed at night and that such a heavy attack should not be retaliated against. but again, we'll have to know a little bit about how it happened. mr. szymański, you said no more than three points. that's pretty good, no one's tried to make one of those except us. so there were three points, and these are the three most important: the ceasefire, the withdrawal of troops and the access of humanitarian aid. we would have done that, we wouldn't have been too embarrassed. for the other three, let's wait, of course, let's wait for the 8th, because from then on, nothing will be prohibited in terms of pressure. we will all decide together, the 27 countries in the council, parliament, which we have since become accustomed to consulting - and jean-pierre and i have become accustomed to consulting with you and being with you at all times - we will decide what we have to do. nothing is certain. if the 8th, we find that really the movement is practically started, okay. but if nothing is done, we'll have to revise our entire copy. it's perfectly clear. aggression cannot pay off. of course, she can't pay, but who's gonna make her pay? i like lecturers who say, about the russian army: what are you waiting for? what was to be done? i see that the most determined people and a number of people who are visiting georgia right now, and tomorrow, and who were very determined in thunderous retaliation, are not going to do anything at all. and i think, like francis wurtz, that for a very long time, georgia was encouraged to show itself, how should i say, robust, virile. i think that was not a good advice because to encourage a country to be vindictive, or at least determined to resist, when we don't give it the means, it doesn't seem right to me and i felt with the government there, that not only were they obviously very unhappy, and then there were victims and georgians were on the street and didn't know to which saint to dedicate themselves, but that there was also something like a sense of abandonment in them. they were promised so much, they were promised so much, and they didn't keep much. for the nabucco pipeline, of course there are explanations like that. it's an oil pipeline, actually. oil is flowing through it. of course, all of this must be taken into account in one way or another. and by the way, that brings us back to what you said. i would point out to you that, in reality, mr daul, this is not the only priority of the french presidency, there is also energy and this is one way of really strengthening - it is in the text - our attention to energy, to renewable energies, of course. mr cohn-bendit, what do we do now? we did what we could, which was to try to stop the war. it turns out that it was not perfect, that the document is not perfect at all, that it was even written quickly and that it took a fight between the two delegations to achieve a kind of coherence. she's not perfect at all. well, it worked, for now. it's not enough, but it worked. so, i completely agree, there are other difficult places, nagorny karabakh, nakhchivan, and others. there are many places - and i do not think that the russians are interested in this in the same way - i am talking about nagorny karabakh, but other places certainly, and in particular crimea. there's no doubt about it. and it's not an insult to the russians to say that we're paying attention to what's going on there. it's really our duty. i will say something very cautious about nato. when we had the six founding countries of europe vote against at the bucharest summit, we did not vote, we did not even have to vote, because unanimity was required, we did not have to vote. the explanation was really very difficult and the six founding countries said it is our neighbour, we must consider that we have not been able to maintain or build sufficient relations with this great country and that we do not have to give it the full feeling of siege, a kind of permanent siege. and i think we were right. now we can talk about the anti-missile batteries installed in poland, in the czech republic as well. it is true that this is not a way of dialogue either, although they are not directed towards russia, but what is important, probably more on the side of iran and our policy towards iran, that is to say the absolute keeping of the six together, it is with russia that can be conducted, and this is very important, because i believe that we would have much to lose if we did not maintain these channels of partnership. how can we control mr saakashvili's actions? i don't know, but you don't bomb a city at night. yeah, i guess you don't bomb a city at night. again, i don't know what the level of this bombing was, but how could we expect any other reaction from russia having committed this? i don't know what you mean. i would just like to make a very small comment on the quote by françois mitterrand. françois mitterrand said: "a little nationalism is culture and that makes a nation. too much nationalism is war". i wanted to rectify that. i would like to return to francis wurtz's use of the word 'cold war', which he did not use and which he used as a repellent, because each time we have heard a lot of people ask, 'so is this a return to the cold war?' but this cannot be a return to the cold war. firstly, because the historical circumstances are not the same at all. there may be animosity, but i agree that this expression must be absolutely condemned. on the other hand, we have been opposed to the need not to talk but to put two blocs against each other. and that is what a number of members of this noble assembly, at least their countries, were thinking about. we had to find that head-on collision. i absolutely disagree with that. indeed, it is the opposite of what should be done, and it would obviously look, less ideologically, like the cold war. this does not mean that we should accept all hyper-nationalist demonstrations as we have done. we need to find a way to talk to each other and maintain those channels. that's what we're trying to do. i remind francis that many of the proposals are those of mr. medvedev, in the security treaty you quoted. well, he doesn't seem to be putting that into practice right away. maybe he will later. he offered it to all of you on june 5th. he was told that it was interesting and that he should take it at its word. but then we were caught up in a little bit of panic. the union would need a policy independent of the united states, a great independent country. mr. wojciechowski, that's what we did. the european union needs a policy independent of the united states, independent of russia, a policy of the union. that's what we've been trying to do. the first reaction of our american friends when we decided to intervene was not very pleasant. they thought we shouldn't do it and very quickly they realized that on the contrary, because they are very pragmatic, it was the right thing to do. and then they were, since it was mrs condoleezza rice herself who had the six-point protocol signed, they were, shall we say, cooperative. then they were extremely critical, not of the six-point document but of the fact that the russians had not respected it, of course. i can understand that. we've been critical, too. the last point: pandora's box and kosovo. that's what i wanted to talk to you about. look, there's an intellectual facility to compare kosovo to ossetia, an intellectual facility that i really, really don't approve of. so if we say that there is a small people who feel by i do not know what nationalist pruritus the need to emancipate and that it is the same thing. no, you can't! first, in the caucasus, people have been used to tearing each other down really very violently with great profit for murder for centuries. this is not the case at all between kosovo and serbia, but what was different in kosovo and serbia was the unanimity of a group, 98 percent of kosovars, and above all the international decision. it was not because we bombed serbia with nato - it was after almost two years of the contact group, which included russia and a rambouillet conference, which lasted more than a month, and in which everyone agreed except mr milosevic. what triggered the whole thing, and i will end with this, was mr milošević's decision in 1999 at the "camp of the sea lions" in obilić to declare that there was no longer any autonomy, to expel the kosovars from the whole administration and to bring in serbs from belgrade to replace them, so that mr ibrahim rugovar of the democratic league of kosovo had to build underground schools and clandestine hospitals. it's not the same thing. the process was accepted by international opinion because there had been a whole international process. the finnish president, martti ahtisaari, made a document that everyone accepted at the un and it said "they can't get along". and i'm ending it because there are hatreds that cannot be overcome. and i'm sorry, i felt - i'm very careful what i say - in the speeches of the ossetians against the georgians something that resembled this inextinguishable hatred, which was based on decades and, probably, centuries of opposition. that doesn't mean that one day we won't be able to do it, but it takes time and i think generations.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the nationalism is the war! that is the exact quote from françois mitterrand's speech in the european parliament, without any limitation. i believe that we can learn from this, and that is the european unity, that we no longer want to settle accounts with the past, but that we want to make a new beginning, to make war and dictatorship in europe impossible in the long term. i would like to thank the french presidency very warmly for its swift intervention to end the war and for bringing about a decision by the european council today, thus expressing unity. the unit is the most important signal. we have expressed our unity in rejecting the violation of international law, in rejecting war and the encroachment of foreign powers, in rejecting the destabilisation of democratically elected governments and the encroachment and occupation of a country. it is therefore important to say that the pka will not be negotiated until point 5 of the ceasefire agreement is respected, namely the withdrawal to the positions before 7 august, and that by the november summit it will be examined whether the ceasefire has been implemented and respected with all six points. it is important that we make it clear that we do not accept things, but so that we do not get into an escalation loop that we also make it clear that we need to keep channels of dialogue open. the european union has a duty to help the people of georgia, and the european union has a duty to help the people of georgia, and the european union has a duty to help the people of georgia. this means participating in peacekeeping missions in georgia and in actions that are possible within the framework of the osce and the united nations. we must make it clear that negotiating a free trade agreement is the right way forward, as our proposals in parliament, in line with the polish-swedish proposal, or our proposal for a european economic area plus show. this is not only true of georgia, but also of countries such as moldova and, in particular, ukraine. i think these are clear signals that we are doing something positive. if we were able to realise that we could do this much better ourselves, if we did not always have to fill the soup that others have made for us, but had a european foreign policy, the treaty of lisbon with the appropriate mechanisms and preventive powers, so that such a situation would not arise, then this would be a policy that we should be promoting. this crisis should make it clear that we as the european union are becoming stronger if we want to prevent war and move towards a happy future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to begin by thanking you for the substance of this debate, which is greater than that of the special meeting of the committee on foreign affairs on 20 august. let's get this straight. georgian president saakashvili has ordered a military attack. this has started the war itself, and a spiral of violence has been set in motion. to remain silent is to deny the beginning of the actual war. the attacks, particularly on the civilian population in tskhinvali, are clearly to be condemned. at the same time, the military response, especially the form of the russian military response and the attacks on the civilian population, particularly in the town of gori, must be clearly condemned. the use of cluster bombs has also been carried out by both sides in this conflict. this is unbearable. international humanitarian law, the law of war, has been clearly violated by both sides in the conflict. however, i have heard very often that russia alone is responsible for the current situation. that is not the case and i am glad that the french presidency has taken a more balanced position on this. and i 'm not going to change my mind . the recognition of south ossetia and abkhazia is comparable to the recognition of kosovo under international law. the western countries have done this and have opened a pandora's box. the west, nato and the european union are heavily involved in the escalation of this conflict and in this war in georgia. the us has brought georgian troops from iraq to georgia, and a number of western countries - nato countries, eu countries - have armed georgia. israel has also been arming georgia, and the military deployment of nato naval forces in the black sea is not necessarily a sign of peace. we know that geopolitical interests are at stake in this war. i'm just saying the oil pipelines. the conflict must not be misused to promote the militarization of the european union. the eu has been successful as a civil actor. if you take sides now, you'll discredit yourself as a mediator. we are on the verge of a cold war, and the decision of which way it will go is open. and we have september 1st. september 1 is celebrated as anti-war day. it is important to remember that war cannot be and cannot be supported directly or indirectly by states within the european union.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the draft common reference framework has reached a preliminary culmination in the work on a european civil law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the aim of this debate is therefore to open a broad legal policy debate on the future of european private law. the european parliament wants to ensure that all interested parties participate in this discussion. however, this requires the academic draft, which is currently only available in english, to be translated into other official languages. commissioner, the funds for translations for 2008 have not yet been fully used. the translations are necessary to enable a genuine european dialogue to be held on the future of european civil law. it is not enough, therefore, to translate only the forthcoming commission document, since this is a matter of course. the commission has initiated an internal selection process to filter out the rules of the academic framework for inclusion in the forthcoming commission document. we welcome the participation of all relevant dgs in this selection process. however, i would like to emphasise that the 'european contract law' project should be run by the justice and home affairs dg as a lead project. the reference framework does not only cover consumer contract law but is intended to facilitate, in particular, the cross-border design of contracts between smes and other economic operators who are not consumers. the commission has organised workshops on selected problem areas in the b2b sector in recent months, precisely because the reference framework is also intended to take account of the interests of smes. the results of these workshops must also be incorporated in the future commission document. the resolution also makes it clear that the final academic framework can serve as a toolbox. he has it in his possession because of his publication. the community legislators will have to base future community private law legislation on the reference framework. the common reference framework may be transformed into a so-called optional instrument at a later stage. the parties should be able to choose voluntarily an alternative civil law system for their legal relationship. this is the way forward if we are to solve the problems which are clearly still present in the internal market. however, in order to give a new impetus to the operation of the internal market, an optional instrument must go beyond general contractual arrangements. it must therefore, for example, contain, in addition to rules on the conclusion of a contract of sale, provisions on the transfer of ownership and rules on the recovery of unlawful transfers of assets i.e. the right of enrichment . parliament is particularly concerned that it is fully consulted and regularly involved by the commission throughout the selection process. we certainly need to think about how we can take greater account of the importance of this project in the future, particularly in the legal affairs committee. the european commission must, however, already now consider mechanisms for adapting the future commission document to new developments. the commission must already take into account in its planning for the ongoing selection process the changes that will be included in the final academic reference framework. all this shows that with the reference framework we are breaking new ground in european contract law. the european parliament, the commission and the council must make a clear commitment to this, perhaps the most important project of the next legislature. this project will benefit everyone: consumers, because they will soon be able to shop across europe on the basis of european contract law, and businesses, because they will be able to serve new markets with increased legal certainty and significant cost savings through a single set of rules.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i have just listened to the debate with great interest and sometimes i had the impression that the various meetings jointly organized by the legal affairs committee and the internal market committee had not taken place at all. in fact, mrs van den burg, we have also found it extremely difficult, even among our colleagues in the committees, to arouse the appropriate interest at the relevant events, which would be necessary for this important legal policy shift in europe. i therefore believe that it is not only the commission's task but also the task of members of parliament, the associations concerned, the trade unions concerned, workers and small and mediumsized enterprises to involve them in these discussions as early as possible. but i also believe - and i would like to expressly support mr mayer in this - that this early involvement of the various stakeholders will only be successful if the legal bases are available in all languages. their answer was not surprising, because they retreated to the fact that the prefabricated academic documents are actually only technical foundations for the white paper positioning you have developed. but in this difficult process, commissioner, i think it is necessary to translate the basis on which you will then make your white paper recommendation, because only in this way can an effective discussion take place. i therefore believe that the proposal is going in the right direction and i ask you, commissioner, to give your support here.
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of my colleague commissioner charlie mccreevy, let me first of all congratulate the internal market and consumer protection committee and the legal affairs committee, and in particular mr mladenov and mr gargani, for their work in producing a thorough and consistent report on a number of specific motor insurance issues. mr mladenov, i cannot agree more with you that this is also a consumer issue. the commission welcomes your support for the conclusions we draw in our motor insurance report of 2007. allow me to address briefly some issues covered in this report. let me start with national penalties introduced in respect of the reasoned offer procedure. the commission welcomes the clear position you have taken in the report on this issue. indeed, your report seems to confirm our stance on the matter, namely that national penalty provisions, although not equivalent, produce the desired effect and therefore no harmonisation at eu level is needed in this respect. the commission will stay vigilant and take steps, if necessary, against those member states which do not fully comply with the directive’s provisions in question. therefore we can only welcome your call upon the commission to further closely monitor the functioning of the mechanism introduced by the eu motor insurance directives. the motor insurance expert group, set up by my services a year ago, brings member states’ representatives and stakeholders together and has proven to be a very useful tool to this end. in line with your suggestion, the commission will involve consumer organisations representing traffic accident victims in the process of assessing the effectiveness of the systems existing in the member states. let me now turn to a second point: the legal expenses, which are very important for the consumers and for insurers as well. your report considers several pros and cons of a system where legal expenses would be compulsorily covered, eu-wide, by the motor insurance policy of the liable party. as stated in the commission report of 2007, we are convinced that such a solution would be very unlikely to provide clear benefits for road traffic accident victims; it might even lead to a distortion of well-established national systems of motor claims settlement. in addition, premiums are likely to increase in those countries where either no or limited reimbursement of legal costs has been the practice so far. i am pleased to see that your report reflects some of these concerns and that it gives preference to market-led solutions, such as the use of voluntary legal expenses insurance. it seems to be evident, though, that in some markets this type of insurance cover is hardly used, and that better promotion is needed. this is a mission the market should accomplish itself, as the commission should not promote particular insurance products or particular lines of insurance business. finally, let me address the issue of the awareness of tools and mechanisms under the eu motor insurance directives. the commission agrees that there is room for improvement, especially in relation to the new member states, as regards the degree of citizens’ awareness of the tools created by the eu motor insurance directives, such as the claims representative mechanism or the existence of national information centres. the insurance industry can and should play a major role in this area. the commission has contributed to the information need of both traffic accident victims and motorists through the publication of a number of motor insurance leaflets placed on the ‘your europe’ portal. many other information sources exist at national level, such as automobile clubs, motor insurance bureaux, claims settlement agencies and others. in conclusion: over the last years, regular reporting to the european parliament on motor insurance issues has become a well-established practice and i am looking forward to our continued good cooperation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, nickolay mladenov, for this really outstanding work on a very difficult subject. the report he has presented covers all the main problems in an excellent way. i would also like to point out that this report is just one small part of the many elements that citizens experience in their daily interactions with the european union. it is true that mr karas rightly pointed out that very few road accidents are of a crossborder nature and that, as a rule, most of them are settled out of court. but a major german weekly newspaper last week ran an article about how a simple citizen wants to re-register a car from germany to italy and after eight months fails and finds that it simply cannot be done. the citizens who are faced with such a problem in individual cases are extremely dissatisfied. the report is therefore a good way of encouraging voluntary schemes. but member states are still invited to consider whether the harmonisation of the law on compensation in the european union would not be a much more pleasant and citizen-friendly way forward for citizens in the long term. we have been dealing here in parliament and especially in the legal affairs committee with non-contractual liability for damage on several occasions in recent months - for example, in rome ii - and member states are still being asked to consider what alternative solutions they see if it is not possible to harmonize liability for damage on this point and to include legal costs as a liability because of the competence of this house. that will be a question we have to answer in the future. that is why the proposal that mr mladenov is making here is excellent and deserves our support.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank the european parliament and, in particular, the rapporteur, mrs bowles, for its very constructive report on a coordinated strategy to improve the fight against fiscal fraud. in may 2006, the commission presented a communication aimed at launching a broad debate on the different elements to be taken into account in an anti-fraud strategy in the community. i am pleased that the european parliament recognises and supports the initiatives taken and the approach chosen by the commission in its communication. equally, i am pleased to see that the european parliament invites the commission to submit further proposals. the report is a very useful and comprehensive contribution to the ongoing discussion about the fight against fiscal fraud. the commission fully agrees that fraud is not a problem that can be combated successfully at national level alone. the commission will take account of the numerous comments and suggestions made by the european parliament in the context of its work on the current and forthcoming legislative proposals for conventional measures to combat tax fraud. as far as actions foreseen in 2008 are concerned, i can confirm that the commission is planning to present three sets of legislative proposals – one in october, the second in november and the third in december 2008. those sets of measures include improved procedures for registration and de-registration of persons liable for vat in order to ensure the swift detection and de-registration of fake taxable persons and to give more security to honest business. the legislative proposals will also cover traders’ joint and several liability, the creation of a european network (eurofisc) aimed at improving cooperation in order to detect fraudsters at an early stage, fixing conditions for vat exemption at importation, mutual assistance in recovery, automated access to data, confirmation of the name and address of taxpayers in the vat information exchange system database and shared responsibility for the protection of all member states’ revenues. by october, the commission will present a communication setting out the coherence of the approach it will present, together with a timetable for further actions. the communication will also address issues relating to a long-term approach, notably the necessity to examine the better use of modern technologies, which has also been underlined in your report. the commission is still open to examining alternative systems to the current vat system, provided that certain conditions are met. the report mentions, in this context, a reverse-charge mechanism and the taxation of intra-community supplies. the commission has offered both of these radical options for consideration to the ecofin council, but so far member states have not shown the political will to take such far-reaching measures. regarding direct taxes, the commission is working on the review of the savings taxation directive, and intends to present the report on the operation of the directive before the end of september, as requested by the ecofin council of 14 may 2008. during the review process, we have been carefully analysing the current scope of the directive and the need for amendments in order to enhance its efficiency. the report will be followed by a proposal for such amendments to the savings taxation directive that prove necessary and appropriate. the commission has also carefully taken note of the ecofin council conclusions of the same date, emphasising the importance of promoting the principles of good governance in the tax area – that is transparency, exchange of information and fair tax competition – and the inclusion of related provisions in agreements with third countries and third country groupings. thanks to close cooperation with the member states in the anti-tax fraud strategy expert group of the commission, the idea of an anti-fraud strategy at eu level is taking concrete form. the announced measures will be a big step forward, even if further efforts will have to be made. concerning your discussion on tax competition, you will know that we have been working in the code of conduct group on abolishing harmful business tax regimes in the eu. all in all, the code of conduct group assessed over 400 measures by the present 27 member states and their dependencies and overseas territories, of which over a hundred were considered harmful. almost all of those hundred have already been abolished and the remainder are set to be abolished, subject to the transitional arrangements. the work conducted under the code has been successful. it has led to the dismantling of almost all harmful tax measures in the member states and their dependent or associated territories. in conclusion, i would like to thank the european parliament for its constructive contribution to the debate on the coordinated strategy to improve the fight against fiscal fraud.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would like to join the rapporteur in congratulating her. the fight against tax fraud has been a constant theme here for years, and the commissioner has unfortunately not yet achieved the necessary successes despite many initiatives and many forms of support from parliament, because the member states are more or less blocking. the member states should have a great interest in this, because with a sum of over 200 billion euros a year - more than the budget of the european union - there is a lot of money to be made by fighting tax fraud without further increasing tax rates for honest taxpayers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the adoption of the report was a little difficult because we had problems in the committee on one point at the beginning; we have rectified that. mrs bowles has also shown a very high degree of cooperation. we have had a difficult time with this report because there was an amendment which we cannot accept. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. whether or not this makes sense and leads to new cases remains to be seen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i predict: we shall otherwise give our full support to mrs bowles' report. however, if motion no 4, which calls for the abolition of the interest rate directive, receives a majority, we shall reject the overall report.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you are on the right track: 2008 will be the year of the revival of social europe. all of this sounds good, but the reality is more bitter. the reality is different! the reality is that there is enormous social inequality in the european union! there's more and more enormously rising profits with stagnant wages. the income gap is widening. the loss of purchasing power of the ordinary people in the european union is a real impoverishment programme in the face of the dramatic increases in energy prices! this is the problem we must tackle in social europe, and not with fancy words! what you're doing, mr. spidla, is beautiful. we welcome that. we shall be discussing in detail what we say about the various proposals. i would like to make a few general comments on what we expect from social europe. fifteen years ago, when people in the european union - no matter in which country - felt that something was wrong, that some standard that had been developed in the national framework was in danger, people said: europe must regulate this, we must regulate this at european level, because people at that time believed that european regulations in the european framework provide protection across national borders. fifteen years later, they must say to someone: 'we will take care of this in europe'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if you look at the irish referendum and the voting behaviour of young people, these young people say: europe is a great idea. but the way it is organized and set up today, it's not well organized, it's not well set up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and where does the pessimism come from today? we must say as social democrats: europe is governed by the right! you make a beautiful social democratic speech, mr minister. what you say is wonderful! but how did your government behave in the council on the working time directive? (applause from the centre) its governing party is a member of the european people's party. the european people's party represents the majority of the heads of government in the european union. they represent the absolute majority of the commissioners in the commission, they represent the president of the commission. you are the strongest group in this house, but if you are listened to, you have nothing whatsoever to do with the social misdevelopment in europe. europe is being governed by the right, and in the wrong direction, and this must be corrected in the european elections! (applause from the centre) you will have a good chance of putting into practice what you have just said. the social europe is a key issue for us, you said. for our group, yes! what is the real threat to people in the european union? uncontrolled financial markets! uncontrolled hedge funds and private equity firms that buy any companies, blackmail the workers, put them on the street just to maximize the investors' profits. my colleague paul nyrup rasmussen has presented a very good report. we need a qualified majority here so that the commission can take an initiative to control hedge funds, to control private equity firms. who's denying consent to this? you, the epp, your members of the economic affairs committee are against it! the fight for a social europe is therefore also a fight for a concept. you have rightly said, mr bertrand, that the european union has been a model of success because it has combined economic progress with social progress. that has always been the philosophy, and by the way, so have the christian democrats in europe. for decades, these were two sides of the same coin, until the neoliberal mainstream in the early 1990s started telling us that lower wages, longer working hours and less corporate ownership were the basic prerequisites for more growth. for decades people - even in the commission, they are still sitting around in bright crowds, people who care more about horse racing than social europe, but who are responsible for the internal market here - have told us and still tell us today - mr trichet, in advance at every press conference - that wages in europe are too high - perhaps for the executive board members of the european central bank, but not for ordinary workers in europe! we must therefore ensure that there is also a change in the political direction, a change in direction so that the european social model actually returns to where you want it to be, mr bertrand, that is, that every economic progress achieved by the european union also becomes a social added value for the citizens of the european union. of course, in the face of global competition from beijing to brisbane - you are right - the eu can only survive if we develop this single market. we want that: we want a capable internal market. we want a european continent that is efficient and competitive. but we want it so that value is created that benefits everyone, not just the investors of the big corporations, the big stock companies, the big banks. if there is a philosophy in europe that people are getting european prices, saying at press conferences about the balance of their company: we have made billions in profits throughout europe, for which we do not pay taxes in europe because we make them european and not national and therefore not taxed at national level; we are not going to let the european parliament, the council and the commission, or the commission, or the council, or the commission, or the commission, or the council, or the commission, or the commission, or the council, or the commission, or the commission, or the council, or the commission, or the commission, or the council, or the commission, or the commission, or the council, or the commission, or the commission, or the council, or the commission, or the commission, or the council, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the council, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the council, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the commission, or the but we want to stabilize the european idea, to advance integration! that is why a social europe is measured by your actions. that is true of you in the council, mr bertrand, and of you in this parliament, mr daul.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i have three thoughts in mind from this discussion. the first is the proposal by minister of the interior bertrand to make 2008 the year of the revival of social security. then there is the statement by commissioner spidla that the social package meets the expectations of the citizens of the european union, and mr schulz, your statement that europe is governed by the right. i think all three sentences are very critically questionable. firstly, how can a french presidency declare that 2008 will be the year of the social revival if you refuse to mention this as a priority for the french presidency? the social package does not, in my view, correspond in any way to the expectations of the citizens, because it does not overcome the social divisions within the european union at all, and it does not even do anything to stop these social divisions, not even to freeze them, but it will go on with this package. and thirdly, mr schulz, i'm happy to give you back the card. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. so we would expect you to explain: after lisbon 2010, there will be a new construct, a new strategy, which clearly puts the defence of the european social model at the forefront and sets priorities differently. the social package itself is not up to par. we want to finally get out of the situation where the number of jobs that people cannot live off is decreasing. the european union must finally stop using this as a criterion, and give priority to affordable work. the social package does not contain any promise that a social progress clause will be included in all the european treaties where it is necessary. and there is no answer to the fact that the directive on a european works council gives those who are the main partners in the defence of social rights in the european union more tools, more means of combating unemployment. the only thing that is being said is that we are going to keep everything as it is and that we are not going to put any more money on it. we reject this package in its vagueness and in its lack of development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs has contributed to more and better jobs - a success questioned by those who find it difficult to navigate the europe of change, outsourcing, rationalisation, takeover. for those who feel that they can be replaced at any time, the export boom of our economy is far away. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the present package is so large that it is not possible to implement it by 2009. this weakens the credibility of the positive approach. commissioner špidla, this cannot be about actionism. it's about sustainability. but it cannot be about what mr schulz has just celebrated, namely a pure election campaign. but he's already left the room. we have a responsibility to ensure that people are not excluded, that they do not retreat into parallel societies or virtual worlds. it starts in schools: the alarmingly high rate of school drop-outs must be significantly reduced to prevent the gap between the unqualified and the qualified from widening. so we need motivational lessons. skills and talents must be nurtured from an early age - an investment that is worthwhile in any case. our concept of lifelong learning will then bring the european added value that mr schulz has been missing. the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the european economy. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the small and mediumsized enterprises have the largest number of jobs, they have the training places to provide. but you also have to work to ensure that they don't stop investing in continuing education and training. otherwise, we're going to run out of innovation. one resource is still penally empty: the older workers. their wealth of experience, creativity and resilience must finally be put to use. they are still far behind in the demographic labour force statistics. finally, the cohesion of society must be strengthened. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we will do our part in this in the committee on employment. we also need the balance between the regions, and for that we provide the european social fund, the regional fund, the globalisation fund. but we still consider one area to be highly critical, namely the issue of non-discrimination. we in the epp group reject the horizontal directive. the legal uncertainty which already exists will continue to increase, and the possibilities for national action will continue to be restricted. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council. there is a need for more effective coordination and communication at national, regional and local level, and good practice needs to be adopted, not just looked at or questioned. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the social dialogue.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is only the 'no' vote in ireland, the victory of the opponents of a common europe, that seems to have roused the commission. the commission's neoliberal policies have long since moved away from the interests of the citizens of the union. the demand for a more social europe has long been on the agenda. it is simply embarrassing when, at the end of a term of office, the failures of the past few years are finally brought to the table. i think it is also very bold to sell the whole thing under the full title of a renewed social agenda. the july files are long overdue. the commission has not yet learned its lesson. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. on the contrary, the neoliberal basic attitude is also predominantly found there. the commission calls for greater mobility of workers. at the same time, it reinforces court decisions which undermine the protection of posted workers. in retrospect, she says, "we'll solve this problem in a forum". the workers need protection, not a forum! do you really think it helps those who don't get paid on a daily basis to discuss their problems in a forum first? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. parliament must improve considerably on this. for example, there are no sanction mechanisms. but let us move on to the issue of solidarity. the health directive, despite criticism, opens the door to more marketable health services and thus interferes with the solidarity systems of the member states. it is a threat to solidarity, not a support for it. there are few dossiers in the package which really symbolize the progressive policy towards social europe that the citizens want. i would like to mention in particular the new directive on discrimination outside employment. however, it had been announced since 2004. it is only after pressure from parliament that the commission finally put it forward. it will be quite clear that parliament will support this directive by a majority. however, it also needs to be improved in many areas, particularly with regard to the rights of disabled people. the name 'social package' is a complete fraud. the commission's social record is, in my view, a record of poverty.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe is more than a common market! europe is not only an economy but also a community of values. i see europe as the answer to globalisation. in a globalised world, a certain social framework at european level provides the necessary protection. that is the idea of a social europe, which i also support. on the other hand, we must also compete internationally. in the lisbon strategy, we emphasise our aim of developing the union into the most competitive knowledge-based economic framework in the world. we must focus our attention in particular on small and mediumsized enterprises, because they are the pillars of economic development. we must also ask ourselves: how do regulations affect these farms? the anti-discrimination policy is a good example of this. i'm against discrimination, obviously. but a comprehensive framework directive is not the way forward, in my view and in the view of 261 other meps, especially not to protect those affected. we are doing the opposite, and we are more likely to exclude these people. there is a great deal of legal uncertainty on the part of the member states and european citizens. the commission has already adopted a number of measures to combat fraud, in particular the introduction of a new system of national accounts. we should first implement the existing law before we create new regulations. the new framework directive on anti-discrimination will not give us the clarity that commissioner špidla has promised. the new regulations raise many questions. who can claim, for example, the characteristic religion/worldview also scientology or right-wing extremist groups? does every restaurant, even a small one, have to have a wheelchair ramp to ensure barrier-free access? the directive does provide for an exception in the event of a measure being disproportionate, but who determines these measures, a member state regulation or a court decision? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. that is not the idea of a social europe. it's not gonna work like that.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by addressing two points in the debate. firstly, europe is not governed by the right, but by the bourgeois and liberal. in my country, i would point out that we had a social democratic government which ended up with a balance sheet of five million unemployed. today we have 3 million unemployed, that is to say 2 million people are now looking for work again. this is real social policy, this is social. secondly, as a member of this house, i am personally annoyed that we speak so badly of our european idea. europe is now a social project. when i think of the fact that the internal market creates millions of jobs, creates wealth and future prospects for people, and when i point out that we are putting billions of dollars into the hands of the cohesion policy and the european social fund to act in european solidarity and to be in european solidarity, i ask you not to speak ill of our own project, despite all the problems. i would like to deal with the question of discrimination in particular, because we are dealing with it in the committee on the interior. everyone says no to discrimination. it is poison to our society and europe must set an example in the fight against discrimination. i hope that everyone in this house will emphasize that. but you're also allowed to ask questions. first, is it proportionate? the question of small and mediumsized enterprises has already been raised. secondly, what is the situation with regard to the implementation of the existing legal situation? evaluation on paper has been carried out. but what is the practical situation with regard to the implementation of the existing directives? you have to ask for them before you create new ones. thirdly, do we really have any shortcomings in european legislation? is this a matter for europe alone? all eu member states are democracies, all eu member states have structures of the rule of law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i cannot hide my disappointment at the statements made by the council and the commission. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens and mutagens is a very important one. but when the protection of workers' rights becomes very concrete, the council and the commission will be in a bind. the president of the council has at least mentioned the compromise on temporary agency work which was agreed in june, but somehow - i think out of shame - the council and the commission have agreed on the working time directive. the council's decision in june is not a glorious achievement for social europe. i was a doctor employed in a hospital before i came to parliament and i know that many doctors employed and many other workers were initially pleased that the ecj had established that standby time was working time. now i also know that there are difficulties in implementation and that you may have to weigh up the time of readiness and the cost and the different burden. but what the council has done, namely to reverse the ecj judgment practically completely and to ignore even those aspects where the commission proposal still provided for some improvements over the previous legal situation, is not possible. we need a compromise, and parliament has already set the course here at first reading, for example, that we can take a quota. but if you are in hospital, for example, and a very sick patient whose life is in danger can come in at any minute, then you cannot call that a rest period, as would be possible under the council compromise. so we must improve this, otherwise all this talk about social europe will be of no use to us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just have questions to ask: why so late, and why so slow? why did we declare 2008 the year of social policy last september, but not include it among the priorities of the council presidency? why has the right to the services directive fought for years against social rights, if today it claims that we are all social? why did my committee vote against the hamon report and for the handzlik report in july, which is the exact opposite of what has been stated here today? why is that? i would like to ask you to be honest and to tell us what you are doing instead of telling the citizens the opposite. that's why i'm asking you, it's really necessary. but why is that? simply because you right wingers have the wrong philosophy. you assume that people are there for the economy. we social democrats say the opposite is true: the economy is for the people, and that is how we must shape policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the social agenda - i cannot help but say this - is missing all the blood of my heart. not a single hot iron is handled convincingly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also not possible that there is no willingness to reform the posting of workers directive. the commission's failure to take a clear position on working time in a social agenda proves once again that this commission too is not going to back down from 65 hours a week. the social europe which my group, the social democrats, want has nothing to do with this. and i say to the council: it is intolerable the way you are putting pressure on the social partners in the reform of the directive on european works councils - to put it nicely. my group will not play this game. if we are not to see european workers turning their backs on europe, we must protect them better from the effects of globalisation and also quickly pave the way for crossborder collective agreements.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i had already indicated before the vote that there was an oral compromise amendment which i had discussed with mrs weber and mr demetriou - a compromise between amendments nos 37 and 39. this compromise would read as follows: 'other forms of offences where there are factual indications that a criminal organisation or serious crimes are involved.' that is what the compromise would be, and that would cover both amendments nos 37 and 19.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the bowles report rightly includes the problem of vat fraud - after all, it amounts to 20 billion euros a year. i support the proposals that have been made in this connection. however, it is important to point out that we need a change of system, a structural reform in this area. the commission's response to this is always to say that we want to strengthen cooperation between the member states on this matter and that we want to carry out evaluations, research, etc. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is also a call to mr kovács to reconsider his position. i hope that we will receive a proposal on this during this parliamentary term and that the proposals of the states of austria and germany will be supported.
the next item is the debate on the presentation by the council of the draft general budget for the financial year 2009. i would like to welcome mr eric woerth, as the representative of the presidency of the council.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is both an honour and a pleasure for me to address you today for two reasons: firstly, because your assembly represents the heart of european democracy. the french presidency is very respectful of your action in the service of european construction and the best proof of our willingness to move forward together in the construction of europe was given by the president of the french republic in his speech in strasbourg in july. i am encouraged by this attitude and my colleagues in the french government share it. secondly, because the draft budget for the financial year 2009, which i am presenting to you today, was unanimously adopted by the council on 17 july. this unanimity proves that this draft budget is balanced and allows all the governments of the european union to recognize it. our first contacts laid a solid foundation for the budgetary procedure. the trilogue and the consultation took place in a constructive atmosphere. we have already agreed on six declarations and i am confident that we will be able to reach agreement on many other matters of common interest. i can assure you that the council is ready to continue this high-quality dialogue in order to reach an agreement on the 2009 budget that is satisfactory to all. this agreement will have to meet three principles: ensuring the financing of the political priorities of the european union and we have defined a financial framework for the period 2007 to 2013, which we must implement in order to achieve our objectives in terms of competitiveness, cohesion and growth. secondly, to respect the rules of budgetary discipline and sound financial management laid down in the interinstitutional agreement. expenditure must remain within the limits set by this agreement and sufficient margins must be maintained under the ceilings of the various headings. finally, appropriations must be adjusted to the strict reality of the needs. in particular, lessons should be drawn from past executions to determine the actual capacity to implement sectoral policies. since the financial perspective was introduced in 1988, the community budget has consistently been under-implemented in payment appropriations. implementation is improving thanks to the action of commissioner dalia grybauskaite, but uncertainties for 2009 are still obviously high and there is no indication at this stage that 2009 will be any different from previous years. it is also important to safeguard the interests of european taxpayers - this is all the more so in the present economic context - and therefore any credit that cannot be used should be avoided as far as possible. the objective of a realistic and balanced budget has therefore been the guiding principle of the council's work. before i present the result, i would like to say a word about the ease of responding to the soaring food prices in developing countries. this will be the focus of our discussions over the next few weeks. the european council of 19 and 20 june gave a strong political impetus by welcoming the commission's intention to submit a proposal for a new fund to support agriculture in developing countries. but the mandate of the european council on this subject is very clear: a solution must be found in strict compliance with the current financial perspective. i know that this view is not shared by the european parliament today. the council will, however, follow this line of reasoning when examining the proposal adopted by the commission on 18 july. finally, i would remind you that the european council recently reaffirmed its willingness to support the reconstruction of georgia, including the areas of south ossetia and abkhazia, in addition to the eur 6 million in emergency aid already released. the union will therefore take the initiative of convening an international conference at the earliest opportunity to assist in the reconstruction of georgia. the european council of yesterday finally asked the council and the commission to start preparing it. i would now like to present the main lines of the draft budget for 2009 drawn up by the council. we are proposing a budget of eur 134 billion in commitment appropriations, which is a reduction of eur 469 million compared with the preliminary draft budget. the increase in commitment appropriations compared with 2008 is therefore 2.8% and the union's commitment capacity is therefore fully preserved. as regards payment appropriations, the council made a limited adjustment of eur 1.7 billion compared with the preliminary draft budget. as you have requested in previous years, the council has not made blind cuts across all the headings. this reduction is based on a detailed analysis of implementation in 2007 and 2008 and on a realistic approach to the implementation and execution capacities of community programmes. the draft budget therefore amounts to eur 115 billion in payment appropriations. the decline in the level of payment appropriations in 2009 is not - i would like to stress this point - a surprise. it had been anticipated since the adoption of the 2007-2013 financial framework. the ceiling for payment appropriations for 2009 is therefore considerably lower than that for 2008 and 2010, in particular because of the evolution of cohesion policy appropriations, which will be marked in 2009 by the end of the 2000-2006 programming period and a gradual increase in the 2007-2013 programming period. we have no indication that new programmes will be started any sooner. on the contrary, the monitoring system for the adoption of management and control systems and major projects shows the delays affecting their launch. thus, out of 433 programmes, only two in hungary have received interim payments. the level of payment appropriations in our draft budget is therefore realistic and adapted to the needs of the union. some points should be emphasized under each heading. on the competitiveness for growth and employment front, the council attaches great importance to the implementation of the lisbon strategy. it has therefore ensured that adequate funding is provided, in particular for research and technological development programmes, trans-european networks and the improvement of the quality of education and lifelong learning. the council has limited the increase in commitment appropriations on the basis of an analysis of the capacity to implement the programmes, as i said. i would like to stress, however, that in this context the increase in commitment appropriations for priority programmes remains very strong. the research framework programme is up 10% compared with 2008, the programme for innovation and competitiveness is up 16% and the programme for lifelong learning, which is essential for european citizens, is up 6%. these examples illustrate the targeted strategy adopted by the council. the council also reduced payment appropriations (eur 471 million) by reducing the appropriations for several targeted lines in order to draw the consequences of implementation. under heading 1b 'cohesion for growth and jobs', the council accepted the amount of commitment appropriations proposed by the commission in the preliminary draft budget. as regards payment appropriations, we have taken a balanced approach, increasing them by eur 50 million for the convergence countries and regions and reducing them by eur 300 million for regional competitiveness. this leads to a reasonable overall reduction of eur 250 million in payment appropriations and i am pleased that we have reached a joint declaration on the structural and cohesion funds and on the rural development programmes. under the heading 'conservation and management of natural resources', the council decided to reduce the appropriations for commitments by eur 382 million and those for payments by eur 497 million. it mainly concerns budget lines related to market interventions and clearance of accounts and, to a reasonable extent, rural development. i would point out that the line on the food programme, free distribution of fruit and vegetables, milk for schoolchildren and promotion measures has been preserved. we have also maintained the amounts proposed by the commission for environmental policies. under heading 3 'citizenship, freedom, security and justice', the council increased the margins available under the ceilings slightly to reach an overall level of eur 76 million by making targeted cuts of eur 20 million in commitment appropriations. i would like to stress in this context the importance which the french presidency attaches to the immigration programme. the amount proposed in the preliminary draft budget for the frontex agency has thus been taken over. on heading 4 'the european union as a global partner', we wanted to anticipate the needs of palestine and kosovo without waiting for the commission's letter of amendment, which is due to be adopted next week. we have therefore set aside an additional amount compared with the preliminary draft budget of eur 100 million for palestine and eur 60 million for kosovo. as regards the cfsp, the council accepted on a provisional basis the commitment and payment appropriations entered in the preliminary draft budget which are in line with the amounts provided for in the institutional agreement of 17 may 2006. the reduction in payment appropriations amounts to 393 million, but half of this reduction is in the reserve for emergency aid and, as you know, the council believes that the financing of this reserve can be obtained by redeploying payment appropriations, as has been the case in recent years. finally, on the administrative item, the council decided on a controlled increase in administrative appropriations of 3.8%, which it considered compatible with the proper functioning of the institutions. the margin available for heading 5 therefore amounts to eur 224 million. the council of course accepted the 250 posts linked to the 2007 enlargement. we have also made targeted cuts based on past implementation, rather than the almost traditional horizontal cuts. finally, a final point on decentralised agencies: we have taken account of the life cycle of agencies. we cannot treat the agencies in the cruise industry in the same way as those whose competence is being developed, i.e. those in the development phase, and we have taken account of the surpluses generated by some agencies in previous years. this is the case for frontex and eurojust, two agencies which are among our priorities. in conclusion, it seems to me that this draft budget for 2009 represents a point of balance between the ambition we all have, of course, for our european union and the fair budgeting we owe to the citizens. this is of course essential to share the necessary confidence in the european project. the perception of your house will probably be different, but we are only at the beginning of the budgetary procedure and we have time to reconcile our views on the architecture of the 2009 budget and to respond to the challenges posed by the new commission proposals. i am sure that the three institutions will therefore do their utmost to reach a comprehensive agreement on all these matters by the november consultation, which is two months away, and i hope that this agreement will be the best possible compromise for both the institutions and the european citizens. you can of course count on my full commitment to this prospect.
i would like to thank you very much, mr woerth. they deserved a little more of our presence here. but we decide a lot of things with the quality of the members. today we are discussing the first of these matters, and a former minister who once held your office is also here.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! you have just said that we are at the beginning of the budgetary procedure. that is not the case for parliament. we started the budgetary procedure and the discussion on the budgetary procedure and our 2009 budget at the beginning of the year. so we've come a long way since then. we in parliament are also, above all, agreed that neither the commission with its preliminary draft budget nor the council with its draft budget, which has even reduced the commission's preliminary draft budget, both in terms of commitment appropriations and in terms of payment appropriations. we do not think that this is an ambitious budget that meets the requirements that are placed on us as the european union in all sorts of policy areas. in particular, parliament has its own problems with the fact that we always and everywhere talk about wanting to fight climate change, but that is not reflected in the budget. we as a parliament - you can see this from the vote that the plenary gave to the negotiating team of the committee on budgets in july by an overwhelming majority - will ensure that the fight against climate change can be strengthened in many areas of the budget, with european funds. we do not think that the gap between commitment appropriations and payment appropriations, as proposed by the commission - namely 15%, which the council has then increased - can remain as wide as it is. we shall therefore be taking steps to ensure that we have a budget which is more in line with budgetary truth and clarity. i think that in the autumn we will certainly have some contentious discussion. but i am hopeful that we will get good results if we agree on certain things together.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to recall the very good atmosphere of our negotiations which we began in the spring, finalising them before the summer vacation. i hope that we will be able to proceed in this manner throughout the whole procedure. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that we will have four main blocks of problems in our negotiations. the first one concerns the level of the payment appropriations, which have been cut by the council by eur 1.8 billion. in the evaluation of the commission’s proposal, parliament thinks it is too modest and the council thinks it is too ambitious; so i hope that we will be able to find a compromise and a proper budget for europe by the final stage of our negotiations. the second block of problems is concentrated in heading 4, and here i would like to mention three elements: additional resources for kosovo and palestine; the emergency aid reserve, especially as there will be needs requiring a fast response this year and next year; and of course the upcoming donors’ conference to help georgia, and here – at least today – we do not yet have a decision on the table. the third block which the commission sees as a problem concerns administrative expenditure, where as usual the council approves posts but cuts the financial funding. this means that for the commission, at this stage and with these proposals, it will not be possible to recruit additional staff, although 250 enlargement-related posts have been approved. the fourth block concerns the food facility. at the council’s prompting, we made a proposal which has not yet at this stage been approved as an instrument by the parliament. so this is the fourth block of our negotiations which i see as problematic. so, in general, there are only these four points which may cause difficulties. for the rest it is very well prepared and very well calculated, and i think that for the most part we can very rapidly reach agreement. if we maintain the spirit of cooperation which we have today, i hope that we will solve all our problems.
acting president of the council. - mr president, first of all, thank you for these talks. i would like to say to mrs haug that this budget is clearly ambitious, even if the levels are not exactly the same when you talk about the different headings. but we naturally share the same ambition and we obviously need to bring our audiences together. we now have two months to do it. secondly, mr lewandowski, as regards your comments on the consequences of the lisbon treaty, we share your wish that the ratification process should not be considered to have been completed and that it is therefore wise not to enter this expenditure in the budget. i think we share the same opinion, of course, on this point. you mentioned georgia. the european commissioner has indeed mentioned it in the main points we have to deal with, and the council has spoken on it. we must therefore now work to bring to life the political lines set out yesterday afternoon. mr virrankoski, you say that the draft is already very restricted and that we are actually restricting it even more. i'm sure you do. but first, we must distinguish between commitment appropriations and payment appropriations. in commitment appropriations, there is an increase of just under 3% compared to 2008. i think it's a sign of ambition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i tried to explain that we had carried out a very detailed analysis and that this was not the result of an anonymous, blind method of reducing payment appropriations. it is simply the result of an accurate, realistic consumption analysis of policies. i tried to explain, section by section. on heading 1, to come back to it quickly, it is true that there is a reduction, but at the same time, within this reduction, there is an increase of eur 50 million for the convergence countries and regions, i would like to point out. and on heading 4, the european commissioner said, there is an increase in appropriations for palestine and kosovo and half of the reduction in appropriations in the draft budget is for the emergency reserve which can be financed, as has been the case so far, by redeployment. we have, of course, until november to have a very thorough discussion on specific, clearly defined and circumscribed points, and we will endeavour to find the best compromise, that is to say a compromise which will, of course, make progress.
that was an important interim debate on the budget. they all took up the crisis and the war in georgia very quickly. i have made a statement on this yesterday before the european council and i feel that my statement yesterday is in agreement with all the european institutions. thank you very much.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by catherine trautmann, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on access to and interconnection of electronic communications networks and associated facilities and directive 2002/20/ec on the authorisation of electronic communications networks and services (com (2007) 0697) c6-0427/2007 2007/0247 (cod)) (a6-0321/2008), the report by pilar del castillo vera, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the establishment of the european electronic communications markets authority (com (2007) 0669) c6-0428/2007 2007/0249 (cod)) (a6-0316/2008), the report by patrizia toia, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the exploitation of the digital divide in europe: a common approach to the protection of consumers (com (2007) 0697) regulation (ec) no 2006/207 c6-0427/2007 2007/0248 (cod)) on the protection of individuals with regard to free movement of goods and services (com (2007) 0269) and the regulation (ec) no 2007-03308248 (cod) on the protection of individuals with regard to the free movement of goods and services (com (2007) 02680) and the report by malcolm harbourbourbour (com (2007) 0268) on the report by the committee on the use of the digital dividends in the digital single market: axis in europe: a single consumer digital single market: awarenessment for the protection of consumption of consumption of consumption of consumption of digital consumption of consumption of consumption (com (com/2008) (com/2008) (com (com (2008) 0260) ) (com (2008) 024
president of the council. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to appreciate the strategic importance of telecommunications and new information technologies for europe, one need only look at a few figures: telecommunications technologies alone account for a quarter of european growth and 40% of our productivity gains. and if you look at a number of studies, you see that the growth gap between the united states and europe over the last 12 years is half related to the differential development of our information and communication technologies. it is therefore necessary for our continent, for our countries, to invest sustainably in this sector. the rapid revision of our european regulatory framework for electronic communications is therefore of major importance to foster competitiveness, growth of the european economy. as i said at my hearing before the itre committee, the aim of the french presidency is to reach a political agreement at the council meeting on 27 november, the content of which will of course have to be based as much as possible on the european parliament's positions. to this end, the council has scheduled some 15 working meetings throughout the second half of 2008. i should therefore like to share with you in a few minutes the prevailing position today at council level on the main issues raised by the three rapporteurs, mrs trautmann, mrs del castillo and mr harbour. my colleague, eric besson, will be dealing with mrs toia's report on the digital dividend issue. i would like to commend the very considerable work done by the three rapporteurs whose topics i will be discussing. i think they clarify the situation and allow the council to start its discussions on a new basis, and i would like to stress the convergence of views between our two institutions, parliament and the council. i would first like to congratulate mrs catherine trautmann on the work she has done so far as rapporteur on the directive amending the framework directives on access and authorization. i would like to welcome its willingness to take account of the challenge of deploying the next generation networks, which is a concern shared by all the players in the sector and by the member states. the council's view is that your report, madam president, stresses the need to continue to promote competition, particularly competition through infrastructure. your report suggests that geographical segmentation of markets should be used more frequently so that ex ante obligations can be lifted where competition is effective. this second point is the subject of more debate in the council. the commission's proposal to extend the commission's veto power to remedies proposed by regulators. the commission is also proposing a co-regulation mechanism to bring the renewed group of regulators to court, for example, where the remedies proposed by one of the regulators are challenged by the commission. the rapporteur of the parliament is thus seeking a compromise between the status quo and the veto power which was originally proposed by the commission and which - as you know - is opposed by a number of member states. it is a real step forward from the original text on a subject which is extremely sensitive for the council and which does not seem at present to be fully prepared to give the commission such power. another hotly debated topic is functional separation. the report by mrs trautmann proposes to maintain the introduction of functional separation as an exceptional remedy for national regulatory authorities. this exceptional remedy would be more closely linked to its application, since the commission's prior agreement would be required with a favourable opinion from bert. in general, the approach adopted by the rapporteur seems to be in line with the compromise reached in the council on this subject, namely to maintain the introduction of this remedy while avoiding its trivialization. finally, another important point in this negotiation is the management of frequencies. your rapporteur, like the council, is in favour of a gradual approach to the evolution of spectrum management which reconciles the principles of neutrality put forward by the commission with the complexity of managing this rare resource. the report from the itre committee votes also introduces a new element by recommending the creation of a radio spectrum policy committee (rspc) to advise both the european parliament, the council and the commission on spectrum policy. this committee would be responsible for establishing a strategic legislative programme on spectrum use. on this point, i think the council has taken up the legitimate request of the european parliament to be better associated with the definition of broad guidelines for frequency management, but you know that the council is also committed to not multiplying the bodies responsible for this resource and to preserving the reactivity that is necessary on these markets and on this resource which is strategic for innovation. the report by mrs pilar del castillo on european authority, whose quality i would like to commend, is a very sensitive report and one which shows that parliament and the council are still in agreement. the report, madam member, concludes that the european authority, in the form originally proposed, is not the appropriate solution to strengthen cooperation between regulators and promote harmonization of practices, and that is also the council's position. you oppose the creation of a european super-regulator and propose the establishment of an entity closer to the regulators, the bert, more independent of the european commission and with a simpler organisation and governance than those originally proposed. the council is sensitive to all these arguments, but as you know, a majority of member states are still reluctant to the principle of the creation of a community entity. the council will therefore have to strike a balance in the coming weeks between two options: the institutionalisation of a private law entity bringing together european regulators or the creation of a community entity whose independence must be guaranteed. finally, mr president, my final comments will be on the report by mr malcolm harbour, whom i would like to thank for the quality of his work, and i particularly welcome the fact that it takes into account the fundamental interest of consumers. parliament, like the council, supports the commission's initiatives to strengthen consumer protection, a subject which has recently gained momentum with the growth of the communications service in the lives of our citizens. the report by mr harbour proposes, in particular, to specify the information to be included in contracts, to strengthen the measures to be taken by the member states in favour of disabled users and to reduce the portability time in order to strengthen competition. the council broadly endorses all these provisions. the issue of privacy, which was dealt with in enhanced cooperation with mr alvaro in the committee on civil liberties, also seems to me an important point to be addressed and i welcome, for example, the consideration of unsolicited communications via sms. finally, on the specific issue of copyright, mr harbour's report proposes to maintain a general obligation for the providers of electronic communications networks to inform subscribers about illegal uses of networks and services. it also proposes to encourage cooperation between stakeholders in order to promote the dissemination of legal tenders. these provisions seem to be balanced but the great sensitivity of this subject must be borne in mind, both for your assembly and for the council. in conclusion, mr president, before i give the floor to my friend eric besson on the digital dividends, on the subjects for which i am responsible, we feel that the positions of parliament and the council are converging with, it is true, a number of nuances on the degree of precision to be given within this directive. we will naturally endeavour to continue close cooperation in order to make compromises in the three institutions possible as quickly as possible.
thank you, mr chatel. mr chatel is a state secretary in the ministry of economic affairs. it is a first that we are hearing a second representative of the council today, namely mr eric besson, secretary of state to the prime minister.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the committee on budgets is concerned, of course, with the part of the legislation on electronic communications, the so-called telecom package, which is supposed to cost money to the european budget. we are therefore dealing with the agency as the authority for electronic communications markets proposed by the commission and amended by the colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection to the body of european telecommunications regulators (bert). to be clear, we simply do not have enough money for either of the two types of construction in category 1a. we therefore welcome the fact that the honourable members have taken our amendments on board in their report and that they are making a design proposal which is less burdensome for our budget. but we must all work together to ensure that bert is a european body and that we, as the european parliament, retain control over bert. i would also remind you that article 47 of the interinstitutional agreement requires parliament and the council to agree on the financing of bert.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. - mr president, i have to say something. as the author of the opinion on the first part of better regulation in econ, i refer to my report, but three points are particularly important to me: firstly, the promotion and expansion of fibre networks the so-called next generation networks: in order to promote these ngns, account must be taken, inter alia, of risk-cost sharing and duct-sharing. in addition to the tc companies, public companies must also be involved in ductsharing. secondly, the commission's efforts to centralize - as has already been suggested - by means of authority, veto power and comitology procedures should be clearly rejected. thirdly, the exact allocation of frequencies should not be decided until a number of preliminary questions have been settled: is the eu competent? where's she in charge? what is the true extent of the digital dividend? and what are the implications of concrete allocation models? the secondary services, such as wireless microphone systems, which are responsible for large-scale broadcasts such as those of the olympic games, must not be compromised. therefore, the results of the ongoing investigations by the expert panels must be incorporated into the policy decision-making on the allocation of spectrum. i hope that we will then be able to achieve european added value for all those involved.
draft opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. if you give me the speaking time of the three speakers, it will not be so wrong. and by the way, i thought i had two and a half minutes. but in order not to waste it, i would like to thank colleagues malcolm harbour, catherine trautmann and pilar del castillo vera for the really excellent cooperation. malcolm just brought that up. we have approached this matter very smoothly and with confidence, through enhanced cooperation. the structural deficit of combining the two directives is unfortunately no longer remediable. however, in the short term: i am very pleased that the commission has addressed the issue of data protection as a whole, albeit somewhat in a stepmotherly way. because, commissioner, you probably wouldn't give me your credit card details, your phone number and your address, even if i asked nicely. the problem is, when you're online, a lot of this stuff is probably already out there, where you don't want it to be, and where you don't want it to be. i am therefore glad that i have been able to work with other groups and with colleagues to ensure that this right of the consumer to the confidentiality of his data and the protection of personal systems is incorporated here. i see that time is running out, but i hope that we will still have opportunities to discuss some of these issues. so, thank you again for the good cooperation, and maybe we will develop further consumer-friendly data protection for europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to begin by thanking our rapporteurs, mrs trautmann, mr harbour, mrs del castillo and mrs toia, and all the shadow rapporteurs, for the good work they have all done and for the good cooperation they have had with those who were not so involved in the dossier. the last legal framework for market liberalisation was adopted in 2002. the importance of the market has already been stressed today. after all, if i may recall one more figure, over 300 billion euros have been invested in the telecommunications sector in the european union alone. thousands of jobs depend on this market, and it is therefore important that we develop the regulatory framework that has worked well since 2002 in a way that this success story can be continued in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. i would like to highlight two points which are particularly important to me personally in my short time. the first is investment in high-tech infrastructure in europe. the challenge for europe is to invest as much as possible in these new high-speed broadband networks as soon as possible. this is a basic prerequisite for making europe competitive. we must create the legal conditions for these investments to be worthwhile. on the other hand, we must not create new monopolies and cement markets. we in the committee have foreseen that there will be a fair distribution of the risks involved in the construction of the new networks and that this distribution of risks will have to be taken into account by the regulatory authorities in future. we have also dealt extensively with the subject of radio spectrum policy. we are in favour of a more flexible radio policy in europe. i think there will also be a good solution to split the digital dividend, on the one hand to take account of the legitimate interests of broadcasters, but still to provide as much flexibility for new services.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to make two points. i would like to begin with the point that we have some matters to settle with our colleague pilar del castillo vera. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the small agencies. there are very different ideas. i would like to hear from the council how the council is debating this and how the council would like to see both the structure of the secretariat or bert - depending on which name you use - guaranteed and how the council - i think the commissioner was quite right in her remark that we want a european structure and do not want to set up structures that are not in line with the european legal system - is imagining how the funding should be. there are two ways of discussing this: on the one hand, the mixed financing proposed by the honourable member and, on the other hand, the proposal i have made, which my group supports, that we take funding from the community budget. but it is interesting to hear how the council, which has been the subject of intense controversy, and the national regulators are now taking this issue. my second question, also to the council, concerns the question of financing the new networks. we have also adopted various proposals - including one of my own, which was put to the vote in the committee on industry, research and energy - which once again dealt in a little more detail with the question of how risk sharing could be achieved if firms were to make the appropriate investments and competitors were to have access to the networks from the outset. i understand that the council has a different view on this and does not want to go into too much detail and give the companies any assurance that there can be any risk sharing. i would be grateful if you would comment on this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to add one very special one from my point of view to the many 'thanks'. i was responsible for the framework directive in the committee on industry, and it is thanks to catherine trautmann's special media policy instincts and also her ability to work in a very structured and systematic way that we as a parliament have been able to prevent a misdirection in media policy through the report on the framework directive. we'll see about that. commissioner, i believe that we as a parliament have made crucial changes to the framework directive both in terms of competition law and in particular in terms of spectrum trading. i found that your first proposals for the framework directive were purely market-oriented and greatly exaggerated the digital dividend. thank god that this has not had a positive response from the members of the committee on culture and then from the committee on industry. on the contrary, my colleagues have put public cultural and political interests and the common good at the centre of their deliberations, and this is reflected in the trautmann report, in my view, in particular in the following points: radio frequencies are defined as public goods and remain the responsibility of the member states. priority is given to broadcasting in particular, but also to opinion-forming services. your attempt to force the broadcaster into a defensive role has failed, commissioner. the introduction of pan-european services will be facilitated - that is good, we can certainly agree. the further harmonisation of frequencies is also primarily the responsibility of the member states. if there are difficulties, the commission does not decide alone, but parliament is involved. bert is a big part of this. the fact that the funding must be european is a matter of course for me. i hope we can make it. i would like to say a few words about two other reports, in addition to the framework directive and the point on frequencies. first of all, the harbour report. mr harbour, there is indeed something very well done in your report for consumers and consumer interests. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of disabled people are better taken into account in future. i also think that you are contributing to media pluralism by imposing mandatory coverage. but my group does not agree with the attempt to include copyright in this report. we don't think anything of it. we do not support the french model - which is also not aimed at the council presidency - or the three strikes model. on the contrary! we're concerned, as we look at this, about both copyright and privacy, the protection of privacy on the internet. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that at the moment, as you suggest in your speeches, there is no consistent line, for example, on protecting ip addresses. the experience of the telecoms scandal and the trade in addresses via call centres shows that ip addresses need to be protected to the fullest, and i hope that we will agree on this in the next 14 days.
i have to say, madam president, this gives me the unexpected opportunity to respond to mrs harms's contribution, which i do with the greatest pleasure. the difference between suggestion and fact is, i think, quite clear in the report. we have implemented a federal constitutional court ruling that has created a new fundamental right. the right to confidentiality and integrity of information technology systems was the first to be included in this legislative act. we have been faster than any other member state, let alone my own. publicly accessible private networks have been included, things like facebook, bebo, etc., which until now were completely outside the scope of this directive. will there be no more cookies, similar software or other applications that transmit user data to the home without the consumer's prior consent? we have, in principle, the prior consent of the consumer for everything on his computer, mobile phone or other third-party applications or access options. in the future, location data can only be collected anonymously or with the prior consent of the consumer. unwanted marketing, annoying text messages, stupid emails, other things - all of these are clearly excluded by this directive. in future, notification to data protection authorities will be mandatory whenever any authority requests personal data from anyone. last but not least, we have given a clearer framework to the notification obligation in the event of security breaches and data loss than was the case until now. but since we were just in suggestion, i don't want to discourage us from thinking about how we deal with ip addresses, because ip addresses -- and this is not to be confused -- are not this data that's being traded -- it's personal data, credit card data, etc. -- and even if it were -- just to put it in a nutshell -- an ip address is not necessarily a personal attribute, at least not when your fridge is running at home. (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs vergnaud, for the report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr harbour, for the report. universal access to these services is a very important issue and cannot be stressed enough. this is a matter which my group fully supports, and i can assure you of that, mr harbour. there are parts, however, that need to be reworked. that's right. mrs reding, you said in your opening remarks that you were surprised that the european parliament wanted to reduce data protection. i would like to say that this does not apply to parliament, because parliament will not vote for two weeks, and only then will we see what parliament's position is on these questions. until then, we'll be working on all the things that are still in the way. i promise you that there will be no reduction in data protection with our group. if there is no satisfactory agreement in parliament on data protection, access to the net and net neutrality, my group will not be able to agree, and then we will see how we go.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs for their really excellent work. but i would like to make two points. the european union is not only an economic community but also a community of values, and therefore the protection of personal data is a key concern. but at the same time, technical progress and the protection of cultural and creative works must not be in conflict. both are crucial competitive factors for the future. i therefore join many of the colleagues who have spoken today in urging that the position of rights holders, those who want to protect their copyright, be strengthened. the other countries do not need this protection, which is why we have introduced cooperation models with the internet service providers. the convergence of technology, and the convergence of copyright enforcement, is a step in this direction.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i shall address the commissioner first. commissioner, this morning you tried to explain to us what a great programme of good work and a social face of the eu the commission has for the citizens of europe. but when it comes to taking concrete action, the commission is weak. in the present case, it is only a complaint by a german doctor and the action taken to respond to it. it was simply a question of at least reviewing the existing minimum standards for working time in the european union. the commission cannot even do that. her reaction was anything but what you'd expect from a guardian of the treaties. you keep quiet for years, and then you give in to the standards. this is what the citizens feel is a betrayal of their rights. they have done a massive damage to the european union project by their silence and by the changes to the working time directive. that is something that needs to be established at this point.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in 2004, the european network and information security agency, known as enisa for short, was launched. its main task is to improve network and information security in the european union and to intensify cooperation between the member states. the task for enisa is extremely complex. computer viruses, spam, phishing and trojans are real threats in a virtual data world. hacking attacks threaten private and public networks. the damage to our modern communication society is immense. security is the achilles' heel of our computer systems. we're vulnerable here, and when i put it this way, you'll understand how important this agency is to us. on the other hand, this agency does not have many employees, but it has this veritable mammoth task to perform. the question therefore rightly arises as to whether enisa, in the form in which it currently operates, can actually fulfil its tasks. we have discussed here many times, both in parliament and in other bodies, how enisa might be developed further. the commission's most recent proposal was to merge enisa with the planned european telecommunications market authority. this proposal has not been taken up by parliament, nor by the council. the council and parliament decided, before the summer break, to extend the mandate of enisa for three years. the commission is now being asked to structure this debate over the next three years. we have also asked for a report on the situation in the community, and we have asked for a report on the situation in the community. can enisa in its current form fulfil the expected tasks? is the commission considering replacing enisa with another organisation? do the tasks necessarily have to be carried out by an eu agency? what changes in general do the commission consider should be considered in the area of enisa structure? i look forward to the commissioner's reply. i am curious to see how far the commission's deliberations have progressed. we are also called upon, as a parliament, to form an opinion on what the future of enisa should look like.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. network security and network security that sounds like expertise. but network security is increasingly affecting other areas of our daily lives: mobile communications, the internet, which is like a crack in the wall, spreading to other areas of our daily lives, ambient intelligence, the environment and intelligence that is transferred to the environment, whether it is to help the elderly or to control complex work processes. all of this tells us is that we are becoming more and more dependent on these modern technologies. they determine our lives, the growth of our economy. the extent of our dependence has recently been shown by the example of estonia. you said that georgia was also affected. people haven't figured that out. but if we needed a more striking example than estonia, here it is: we saw how a modern, networked economy was suddenly dependent on this factor, on this technology, and was attacked and security was really very threatened. that is why the commission, then under commissioner liikanen, rightly recognised that we need a network agency. so we were surprised when suddenly, after only one year, enisa was evaluated without being properly and legally equipped, and then enisa was questioned. that is why i am very glad that we are having this debate. why have we questioned this agency after a year? how do you intend, how do we intend to equip enisa's mandate so that it can operate as an agency on a par with the agencies that exist in the united states, japan and china? i would like to thank you for the recognition you have given to enisa after the further evaluation. nevertheless, we here in parliament are discussing day by day this cultural change, this climate change, which is affecting our economy, the transition of our economies away from fossil fuels to others. everybody here is excited about it every day. we all know that this can only be done by changing systems. and that's why we need smart solutions, and that's why we need network security, because security comes first. so i'm grateful that we're having this debate as a building block, in terms of a more robust enisa and better network security.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not gender equality is a value and a goal of the european union. the eu wants to achieve this equality in all areas. it is not possible that the important field of advertising is exempt from this. i therefore welcome the report by my colleague, mrs svensson, who has taken up this important subject and has presented a balanced report. thank you very much. advertising affects us unconsciously. one important factor is the spread of gender stereotypes. discrimination in advertising is contrary to the goal of equality. the eu is not doing enough to tackle sexism and discrimination in the media. we must therefore make it clear that europe is also a europe of values. we do not want any anti-women advertising, any advertising which degrades women into objects, which celebrates crude stereotypes about women. the same, of course, applies to advertising about men. i would be glad if advertising, on the contrary, helped to shake up our fixed role models, our images of men and women. but unfortunately, the advertising industry has taken a stand against something that should be taken for granted, namely respect, especially respect for women. i can't believe the advertising industry is making a fuss over this. i call it a storm in a teacup precisely because it is obvious that many of my colleagues have heard it. we can agree on the following principles: we need to bring more attention to discrimination in the media. we also need national monitoring bodies to which complaints can be made. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. that's why i don't understand all the excitement. i would have liked to have gone further in this report. i hope, therefore, that we can really agree on what is now before us. i am not going to go into the details of the report, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the report.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs sartori, on behalf of my colleague, mr stavros dimas, for the intensive work on this difficult proposal. but this intensive work has made it possible to reach an agreement with the council at first reading, which the commission expressly welcomes. it is again about chemicals and the protection of people and the environment from their potentially dangerous effects. chemicals are not a european problem, not a european monopoly. they are produced, traded and consumed worldwide, and the risks associated with their use are the same everywhere. it is therefore obvious that we have sought to establish a globally valid system for describing and labelling these hazards. what we are going to adopt today is the basis for uniform environmental, health and safety information on potentially hazardous chemicals worldwide. only by using uniform standards to identify and label the hazards of chemicals will the protection of health and the environment be made transparent and comparable worldwide. the economic benefits should not be underestimated. european companies will save costs by not having to assess the hazard statements for chemicals, which are required in all countries, according to different criteria and in different systems. at the same time, professional users of chemicals and consumers worldwide will also benefit from such harmonisation. so as a user of chemicals, you will not need to know about multiple systems to know what hazards a chemical might pose. the compromise proposed by the rapporteur is balanced and takes account in particular of the practicability and clarity of the provisions. the amendments proposed by the co-legislators are numerous, but they do not change anything substantial in the basic idea or structure of the original commission proposal. the commission is therefore happy to follow these proposals. the commission has already taken care, when drawing up the proposal, to maintain the very high level of protection of human health and the environment which already exists. i am very pleased that parliament and the council share our basic conviction. the close and constructive cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission has been very beneficial to the negotiating process and, as i said, we can therefore agree to all the compromise proposals put forward by the rapporteur, mrs sartori.
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. first of all, i should like to say that the compromise tabled by mrs sartori for the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is very much welcomed by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. we believe that this solution represents a very good compromise and a very good solution both for the chemical companies in the european single market - which are generally active worldwide - and for consumers, and that we have struck a very good balance in this area, especially for sensitive consumers. this was only possible because we had a very friendly and reliable cooperation between the rapporteurs. i should like to thank mrs sartori in particular for her way of conducting the negotiations, including the trilogue, which was certainly decisive in the end for a solution that met all expectations. i am pleased with the result because i believe that from the point of view of the internal market, from the point of view of companies and especially chemical companies, which have not always had a positive experience with reach at european level, ghs as a global regulation, which was first discussed by the un, can be implemented in the european internal market in a very unbureaucratic and practical way. this will, firstly, directly bring competitive advantages to companies operating in the european single market, because the single mark was a significant step forward compared to the existing system, which is still different in some peripheral areas. mr verheugen, we also briefly discussed in the trilogue that the transport law for these consumer goods is still not uniformly regulated and that we should consider whether we should focus on the transport law for the transport of chemical goods in the coming months. secondly, it was right - and i would like to join mrs laperrouze of the liberal, democratic and reformist group, with whom we have also had very good cooperation - not to open the annexes, because this move has enabled us to avoid a discussion like that on reach. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but i think in retrospect, it was the right thing to do. i would like to expressly support the wish of mrs laperrouze that a transitional period be introduced in annex 6 for the substances which have been changed there, substances which were so unforeseeable to us at the beginning of the discussions when we were scrambling to find this solution. i would be very grateful if you could say a few words in your reply, commissioner verheugen. users of chemical consumables are generally not familiar with the composition of these goods. this is why we have made it a priority in our consultation of ghs to ensure that we can also achieve a practical implementation for consumers. here we have found a solution - although not all individual cases could be examined in detail - at least for the common consumer goods such as detergents and dishwashing detergents, which on the one hand achieves the objective of informing consumers about the amounts of chemicals found there, but at the same time also allows the usual handling of these products in the future in the same way as in the past. i should like to give you an example: the use of detergents used to be possible only if you used several litres of bottles. the increasingly environmentally friendly techniques of manufacturing and using these products have reduced the quantities of these detergents, and today we have only 0.3 or 0.5 litre containers stored in the kitchen. no doubt the concentration of chemicals in these products has naturally increased. but this is quite acceptable to consumers with the present solution of the ghs because we know that consumers deal with these products on a daily basis and therefore overclassification at this point could be avoided. i have thus covered all the points which are important for the internal market and i thank you for your attention.
i have to say, madam president, we all know that chemicals are produced and marketed worldwide, but the dangers, the risks, are also global. we need guidelines in the form of clear classifications and labels that are global in scope. i would have liked the european union to act as a driving force for very clear labelling and strong consumer protection. but i have heard a lot of speeches here that the eu should not be a locomotive but a brake-boat. i can live with this political agreement, but i am not entirely happy with it. we have achieved an important step towards greater safety for people and the environment. i am also pleased that, despite the overly industry-friendly report by the envi committee on the thresholds for labelling, the damage limitation approach has been successfully pursued in the negotiations with the council and the commission. i am glad that there is no longer a quantitative threshold for mandatory labelling and no longer any accepted loopholes for industry and that the proposed classification system is paving the way for alternatives to animal testing. but i also wish that the labelling of hard-to-degrade bioaccumulative and toxic substances had been improved, that we had introduced a new category of acute toxicity, because this is something that is really topical, where we would have had to show willingness to act. so i think we have sent an important signal today for greater safety for people and the environment. but these are not laurels to rest on. i therefore believe that this will be an issue for the future, and that there is a lot to be improved.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the car of the future is once again on the agenda - a subject which the european parliament has already been dealing with very intensively in another context this week. today we're talking about a technology that could help us solve the environmental problems caused by motor vehicles. i repeat, one possibility that could help us. we do not know whether this possibility can be realised on a global scale, but we should take advantage of the opportunity. that's what this is about. we all agree that sustainable mobility is one of the key challenges we will have to solve in the coming years. we do not want to restrict the right of individual mobility of european citizens. on the other hand, there can be no doubt that this right to individual mobility - that is to say, in plain language, the right to drive, to own and use a car - must be used in a way that does not destroy our environment, that is, we need cars that are environmentally friendly. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce this directive into the directive. the traditional combustion engine is out of date because it consumes so much fuel and we have to do everything we can to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels wherever they are used. so in this context, the question is: can we facilitate the development of hydrogen-powered motor vehicles? the commission's proposal, namely a regulation on the type-approval of hydrogen-powered motor vehicles, follows this basic idea. i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mrs weisgerber, for her constructive and successful work on this proposal. i am very pleased that this work by mrs weisgerber has made it possible to reach an agreement at first reading. we do not yet know what the best technology is for sustainable mobility. if you open the newspapers and watch the television programs, you are confronted with a different discovery every day. some talk about fuel cells, others talk about electric cars, still others talk about new types of high-performance batteries. there are many options that compete with hydrogen propulsion, especially electric motors and fuel cells. our task is to define the necessary safety standards for promising technologies, while strictly respecting technological neutrality. that includes hydrogen. hydrogen can replace conventional fuels and significantly reduce the adverse environmental impact of road transport. but i would like to add, in parentheses, that all of these considerations only make sense if we can produce hydrogen in an environmentally friendly way. if hydrogen is produced with dirty energy, we are only shifting the problem. the proposed regulation integrates hydrogen-powered vehicles into the european type-approval system. in this way, hydrogen vehicles are treated like conventional motor vehicles, so that a single authorisation for the whole of the european union is sufficient. this approval process is less cumbersome and much cheaper. manufacturers can complete all formalities at a single point of contact, thus achieving significant savings. this will boost the competitiveness of european industry and reduce administrative burdens. hydrogen has different properties than conventional fuels such as gasoline and diesel. the proposal therefore sets out above all the necessary safety requirements. in particular, we must ensure that the storage of hydrogen in the vehicle is absolutely safe. this regulation aims to ensure that all hydrogen-powered motor vehicles on the road in the european union are as safe as conventional vehicles. this should also help to build public confidence in an unfamiliar new technology. the proposal also introduces a vehicle identification system to enable emergency services to easily identify hydrogen vehicles. the close cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission had a positive effect on the outcome of the negotiations. i can therefore only agree with all the amendments tabled by your rapporteur, mrs weisgerber.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the fossil fuels are finally gone. demand is rising, and so are prices. we see this every day at the gas station. the expectation that oil, natural gas and coal will run out in the future is one reason for rising prices. we must therefore explore technologies today which can replace fossil fuels in the future. one of these alternatives - and commissioner verheugen has rightly emphasized this - is hydrogen technology. of course, hydrogen vehicles are not yet ready for the market. but there are various funding projects under way to change this. the eu highways project has just concluded with an encouraging report. in february, eu research ministers agreed on a long-term public-private partnership for research. the aim is to achieve market maturity of hydrogen and fuel cell technology between 2015 and 2025. the total investment in this research programme over the coming years is expected to be around eur 940 million, half of which will be provided by public authorities and half by private investors. we see that all the signs are in place for the market readiness of hydrogen vehicles. the current high prices for fuel cells cannot be a valid argument against hydrogen technology. this is the case with all future technologies: the first digital camera with 0.5 megapixels was developed for space years ago and cost about 10 million euros. today, almost everyone has a digital camera. this regulation will provide for the first time harmonised technical requirements for the registration of hydrogen-powered vehicles throughout europe. uniform criteria are necessary to promote the spread of this technology while ensuring a high level of safety and environmental protection. hydrogen vehicles are not currently covered by the ec type-approval system. therefore, member states may grant individual authorisations for such vehicles. in some member states this is the case, in others it is completely unknown. this practice of authorization is liable to create the risk that each member state will impose its own conditions of authorization and to disrupt the internal market. this would lead to high costs for manufacturers and safety risks. hydrogen is one of the energy sources of the future. it is therefore our task - which we are fulfilling today by adopting this regulation - to define the political framework for the use of this future technology by means of uniform authorisation criteria. i am glad that we were able to reach agreement on the first reading across the political groups and that we also had such excellent cooperation with the council and the commission. i would therefore like to thank the shadow rapporteurs - mr bulfon and mr manders - in particular for their excellent cooperation. this made it possible to reach an agreement at first reading. the main focus of our work was on the issue of the labelling of hydrogen vehicles. hydrogen-powered vehicles are as safe as diesel or petrol-powered cars. the regulation requires them to pass the same rigorous safety tests as all other vehicles. but it makes sense that when rescuers are on the scene, they know they're dealing with a hydrogen vehicle. then they can take into account certain specificities. however, this must not unjustifiably put hydrogen vehicles on the spot. because, as i said, hydrogen cars are just as safe as vehicles with other fuels. that is an important message that i would like to convey. we therefore propose that hydrogen vehicles should first be given a discreet marking on the hydrogen-carrying components. but we have also improved the commission text once again, together with the commission and the council, and replaced the word 'labelling' with 'identification', because in the long term this labelling should and could be replaced by electronic identification. it is an intelligent emergency call system called ecall. other questions have been raised. i shall perhaps end by briefly returning to the question of hydrogen refuelling infrastructure. i look forward to the lively discussion and to your speeches.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report by mrs weisgerber is a good example of how european policy is adapting to changing markets and creating early, proactive standards and legal bases for technological innovation. the council intends to deal with the issue of standardization in the next few months and draw conclusions. the question of how quickly standards respond to technological progress, how quickly legislators respond to technological progress and how quickly standards adapt to economic reality will also play a role in this discussion. i believe that with this report on the type-approval of hydrogen vehicles, europe can be a pioneer in a single regulatory platform for the development of hydrogen vehicles. it has rightly been pointed out that it is not clear at this stage whether the use of hydrogen as a fuel for motor vehicles will ultimately be sustainable and environmentally sustainable. but this cannot be ruled out today. i therefore believe that this report provides a good basis for further research by the leading research institutes in the european single market and, above all, by the leading companies. this is particularly important in the context of the debate on co2 policy in motor vehicles and the desire to achieve a better understanding of the different technologies in order to know in the end which vehicle, which engine technology is best suited to the environment and to people. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles with compression-ignition engines is a very good one. it has also been pointed out earlier that, of course, a worldwide type-approval should also be based on this. we hope we can do that. good luck to you.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think this is a good example of the ability of policy to act, because in the future type approval for hydrogen vehicles will be possible, even though the technology is not yet available. we talk a lot about co2 savings in transport, and specifically in motor vehicles. this could be a way to reduce co2 emissions. but the important thing is that - i am a member of the environment committee and was the shadow rapporteur there - we will then generate the hydrogen from renewable energy. this also provides a way to store energy from renewable energy sources. we could then use this in the transport sector, and that would be a good way. it's important that we keep that in mind in the future. but it will also be important that we create an infrastructure at the gas stations. we see it in the cng vehicles, where the infrastructure is still very hollow. the vehicles are available, but the customers, the motorists are still reluctant to buy these vehicles because the availability is not guaranteed. we should definitely keep that in mind in future discussions.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a position on the proposal for a directive. i am very pleased to note that this debate has indeed shown a broad consensus in several respects: firstly, a broad consensus that hydrogen technology is an interesting potential contribution to solving our energy problems; secondly, a consensus that hydrogen technology is also a potentially interesting option in road transport; and thirdly, a very broad consensus that the whole of hydrogen technology only makes sense if it has a positive ecological balance, i.e. if it produces hydrogen from clean energy sources. this is a very important result. i would also like to inform you that the commission has placed particular emphasis on the development of hydrogen technology in the seventh framework programme for research. in a joint technology initiative, €800 million is available for research into hydrogen technology - not just for vehicles. i would like to avoid the impression that we are spending 800 million euros to have hydrogen researched as a fuel technology. this is only part of the project. overall, the project aims to provide a clear basis for how hydrogen can indeed help to drastically reduce co2 emissions in our society. i myself have had the privilege - as has the president of the house, mr pöttering - of being able to use a hydrogen-powered vehicle for a period of time. my personal impression was that the technical problems associated with the use of hydrogen in vehicles had been essentially solved. so the technology is there. you can do it. what is completely lacking - and this has been pointed out here on several occasions - is the infrastructure. i would imagine that, after the adoption of this proposal and the encouragement it gives to industry, we will have to deal in future with the question - which was also raised in this debate by mr bulfon - whether those who operate large fleets, for example, such as parliaments, this parliament, national parliaments, governments, including the european commission, which are used mainly in local transport, should not, as soon as the possibilities allow, set a good example and facilitate the introduction of such vehicles on the market by means of an appropriate procurement policy. it's still future music for the moment, but it's something to think about at the time. i would like to thank the rapporteur once again for her really excellent work and all the speakers from the groups and committees who have shown that we have a common vision here of what the future of the motor vehicle in europe could look like.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you for the very interesting talks. i would also like to express my sincere thanks to the shadow rapporteurs, the commission, the council representatives and also to the staff for their excellent cooperation. this is the only way to achieve political agreement at first reading. we've seen that hydrogen is a technology of the future. hydrogen can be part of the answer to the challenges of climate change and reducing emissions. hydrogen is a clean alternative to fossil fuels, and the use of hydrogen is only sustainable if it is derived from renewable energy sources or nuclear energy. this is the direction we must take in the years ahead. i'm fascinated by the idea of having the really completely carbon-free hydrogen cycle, where hydrogen is ultimately extracted from renewable energy and then evaporated into water. it's a really fascinating thing. i have supported this technology before my time in the european parliament, and i have been a volunteer for a long time. we've set the legal course today. we have created the necessary conditions for us to finally have a uniform regulation on authorization. we have thus also shown the way to an international marketing regulation. the research and development programme is now well under way. the technology is there, as commissioner verheugen rightly said. now we have to sort out the other infrastructure issues. the issue of petrol station infrastructure is also being addressed in a public-private partnership. and then maybe we can make it so that it's not too far in the future that hydrogen vehicles are not just prototypes on our roads. thank you again for your cooperation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the resolution we have drawn up is the old text, which does not quite match the wording of the european council meeting. i would therefore suggest that the second part of the text should read: 'and therefore welcomes the decision of the european council to deploy'. so far, our text says that we are asking the council to do it. he's already done it by now. that is why we should adapt the wording accordingly.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not my group had a very intensive debate yesterday on this compromise resolution. it departs in essential points from the text which we, the socialist group, originally tabled here. i do not wish to call into question the negotiations and to diminish the success of our negotiators in reaching a compromise with the other groups, but there is one element which we have not been able to achieve here, but which plays a special role in our resolution. although this element, which i shall mention shortly, is no longer in the text, our group has decided to support the compromise resolution because we believe that a common signal from the european parliament is important. but i want to make it clear: we would have liked to see the aggressive attitude of president saakashvili recorded and also that it was recorded that at the beginning of the conflict a totally inappropriate ... (protests from the right and applause from the left) we would like to see what happened at the beginning included in this resolution. the only reason for this is to make it clear that those who are shouting here are also those who want the escalation of conflicts, not their reduction. (applause from the left and protest from the right)
i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. mr president of the republic of costa rica, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the european parliament, i should like to extend a very warm welcome to you, mr president arias. mr president, your visit is a milestone in the relations between the european parliament, the european union, costa rica and latin america. dr oscar arias, you were already president of costa rica from 1986 to 1990 and were re-elected in 2006 for another four years. we know you as the recipient of the nobel peace prize, which was awarded to you in 1987. this was in recognition of your enormous efforts in finding ways to bring peace to central america. the efforts of president arias in his role as international mediator resulted in the esquipulas agreements, signed on 7 august 1987 by all the presidents of the central american countries. the european union has given its full support to these efforts. the president of costa rica thus sets an example for people everywhere. he once said that it is necessary to have values, principles and ideals and to fight for them. you have done this, mr president, with dedication over the years. the citizens of costa rica have recognized your great merits with your re-election two years ago. at the 5th eu-latin america/caribbean summit in lima in may this year, i emphasized in my speech the fundamental importance of regional integration for the 21st century. as one of the founding fathers of the european union, jean monnet, put it succinctly, the eu is not about bringing states together, but about bringing people together. mr president, you too have committed yourself to this ideal and have actively worked for it. the european parliament would like to see the association agreement - i said so in lima - between central america and the european union concluded as soon as possible, and i would like to add that we have just discussed this in our discussion: if war breaks out somewhere, billions of dollars or euros or whatever currency are immediately available. but when it comes to stabilizing peace, we are fighting for a few million. we must give peace a chance! (applause from the centre) that is our message to the other european institutions today. mr president, let me conclude by saying that we believe that costa rica and you, mr president arias, will continue to play a crucial role in bringing these negotiations to a successful conclusion. i would like to welcome you once again on behalf of all the members of the european parliament. i hope that your visit will give us the opportunity to strengthen the bonds of friendship between europe, costa rica and latin america. ladies and gentlemen, let me add something off the record. it is a good thing that the president of costa rica is here, and it is a beautiful coincidence - for once, i am allowed to mention the age - that the member of the european commission responsible for foreign policy, commissioner benita ferrero-waldner, is turning 60 today. this is also a cause for joy and a reason for our warmest congratulations. (applause from the centre)
president of the republic of costa rica. mr president, i greet you on behalf of a small american republic, in which a little over four and a half million people dare to live and dream every day; in which the ideal of a society without an army has been made possible, and in which we will soon be celebrating 110 years of democracy. i greet you on behalf of a small american republic which in the second half of the 20th century witnessed the parade of the most abominable dictatorships around it, without ever being the scene of oppression; which refused to be a pawn in the chess game of the cold war, and refrained from using arms to achieve peace. i greet you on behalf of the republic of costa rica. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, two events precede me today, separated by centuries and decades, but as close to the present as the dawn of this morning. 225 years ago today, the american war of independence came to an end, with the signing of the treaty of paris, the first wave of the independence movement of virtually the entire american continent. and also 69 years ago today, world war ii began, with the declaration of war on germany by france and the united kingdom, and the emergence of the allied bloc in which much of america would participate. i am noting these facts because, as i approach this podium, a symbol of communion between different peoples, i am aware of the historical baggage i carry on my shoulders, and which you also carry in the past of each of the nations you represent. we are not here to establish relations between our two continents, but to recognize that these relations have existed for a long time, and that any attempt to improve them must start from an attempt to understand them in their entirety. with the frankness that must prevail among friends, we must recognize that the genesis of our common history is the domination of one civilization by another. america knew europe by its strength, rather than its ideas. fear characterized the conquest, indignation characterized the colony. and yet, we couldn't help but admire this millennial culture. despite the struggles we faced, it is undeniable that europe lit the light of reason in our land, and that it instilled in us an attachment to the best causes of humanity, causes that we did not abandon with independence. twenty-one years ago, those were the causes that brought me to europe, during my first administration as president of costa rica. i came to ask for the strength of this continent in the search for peace in central america, where five nations were struggling for life and death in the midst of civil war. threads of blood divided our villages, and pitted brother against brother. in a cruel experiment, the powers of the time used us as a test ground for the demonstration of their power: they put the weapons, we put the dead. the death toll was, by some estimates, 350,000. that's the equivalent, proportionally, of almost four million americans dying today in the iraq war. only by achieving peace could we secure a future for our region. europe was then the answer to our prayers. the moral support of this continent legitimized our efforts to find a diplomatic solution to the conflict, a central american solution to the central american problems. the international aid you gave us in those days was wide and generous, and it was a symbol of the true european will to assist the progress of the central american nations. twenty-one years later, i'm back in europe, and like brother luis de león coming out of his four years of imprisonment, i feel compelled to start with a "we said yesterday"..., because in many ways, we have to pick up where we left off. the relationship between europe and central america, so intense in times of war, became distant in times of peace. the aid from europe to central america, which was so abundant in times of oppression, became more moderate in times of freedom. we never imagined that by crossing the threshold of peace, we would enter the realm of oblivion. i would like to think that this will be the time to show that the friends who supported us in dark days, also know how to do it in light days, and precisely because the day is light. today i would like to propose three courses of action with which we can deepen our relations and fight, shoulder to shoulder, in building the utopias that you yourselves taught us to pursue: the signing of the association agreement between central america and the european union, the consensus of costa rica and peace with nature. i know this room is full of all kinds of opinions about free trade. but i also know that those opinions are expressed from the head of someone who has the good fortune of living in a developed nation. i'd like to give you the view from the plain today. for a country like mine, one of the smallest in the world, there is no possibility of producing all that we consume. we are doomed to be the phoenicians of modernity. in times of globalization, the choice facing developing nations is as stark as it is simple: if we are not able to export more and more goods and services, we will end up exporting more and more people. it is clear that europe must look after the interests of europeans. but it is also clear that the interest of europeans, and of every race in the world, is increasingly determined by the common destiny of human beings. no nation can remain calm while hunger, ignorance, violence and disease are rampant beyond its borders. as long as the disparities between our nations remain so wide, a global diaspora will continue to take thousands of human beings across oceans, rivers, walls, to seek opportunities that they could not find in their own countries. the association agreement between central america and the european union, the first region-to-region agreement that the european union could conclude, is the closest, clearest and most immediate opportunity for europe to strengthen its presence in latin america. since the creation of the central american common market, few initiatives have harbored greater potential to accelerate the economic growth of the central american isthmus, to modernize our institutions and to provide new opportunities to those central americans who still live in poverty. the agreement would mean that europe would regain the leadership it had lost and take the vacant position at the forefront of the struggle for the development of our latin america. yesterday we were allies in peace, today we can be partners in development. central america and europe, however, have colossal differences that must be considered. the first is the difference between our two models of integration: europe must accept that central american integration takes place in the form and to the extent that our institutional evolution allows. we are already the most integrated region in the developing world, and therefore we consider it unfair that conditions should be imposed on us in terms of our integration in order to make progress in the negotiations; conditions which central america can hardly meet, and which, moreover, are not demanded of other regions of the world. the second difference between our regions, and perhaps the most important, is the difference between our levels of development: it is crucial that the trade component of the agreement should grant asymmetrical treatment in favour of central america, and above all avoid the painful practice of maintaining barriers in areas where it is precisely central america that has comparative advantages. if we reach an understanding on the basis of these assumptions, europe would be making a giant leap for the benefit of central americans, but also for europeans, because in times of international crisis this continent could benefit greatly from an economy which has been growing at about twice the european rate for the last five years. europe can start a new role in the developing world, but first it must ensure that this role is in the interests of development. goethe said that "nothing does more harm to a new truth than an old error". we cannot enter a new stage of international cooperation bearing the burden of the past, particularly the burden of military spending which is, in and of itself, a real insult to the almost 200 million latin americans who languish in poverty. it is time for the international financial community to learn to separate the chaff from the wheat, and to recognize, with evidence in hand, which expenditures translate into a better standard of living for human beings, and which do not. it is no badge of honour that in 2007 military spending in latin america amounted to 36 billion dollars, in a region which - with the sole exception of colombia - is not currently experiencing any armed conflict. with the money spent on a single sukhoi su-30k aircraft, about 200,000 computers from the mit media lab xo could be bought for our students. with the money spent on a single black hawk helicopter, a $100 scholarship per month could be paid to 5,000 latin american youth for a year. the developed nations of the world cannot support, with aid and resources, the decision of those who would rather open their soldiers than educate their children. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, my government has announced the costa rican consensus, an initiative to create mechanisms to forgive debts and to provide financial support to developing countries that invest more and more in environmental protection, education, health and housing for their people, and less and less in arms and soldiers. i hope that the costa rican consensus, with your support, can one day become a reality. i also hope that we can approve a very related draft: the arms transfer treaty that costa rica has proposed in the united nations, which prohibits countries from transferring arms to states, groups or individuals, when there is sufficient reason to believe that these weapons will be used to violate human rights or international law. i don't know how much longer we can survive without realizing that killing many, little by little, every day, is as reprehensible as killing many, in a single day. the destructive power of the 640 million small arms and light weapons in the world, 74% of which are in civilian hands, has proven to be more lethal than nuclear bombs, and is one of the main drivers of civil insecurity at both national and international level. fear of death cannot be the key to writing the future of our peoples. today we can do something to ensure that this is not the case. there is only one issue that i have left to mention to you, and it is one that has to do, also, with violence and destruction, but not only against human beings, but against all forms of life. every forest we cut down, every ton of carbon dioxide we put into the air, every river we pollute, brings us one step closer to the gates of extinction for our species, at the threshold of which, like dante's gates of hell, we must abandon all hope. i refuse to witness the passage of humanity through those gates. sixty years ago, former costa rican president josé figueres had the vision to abolish the national army and thus declare peace to the world. we have now made the decision to declare peace with nature. we have set ourselves the goal of becoming a carbon neutral country by the year 2021, when we celebrate 200 years of independent life. last year, we became the country with the most trees per capita per square kilometer in the world, by planting five million trees. in 2008, we will plant 7 million more trees. we are leading an international crusade against global warming, and today i humbly ask you to join us. the increase in the planet's temperature has made it possible for olive trees to grow on the coasts of england, a truly alarming sign to the scientific community. contrary to the biblical story, this time the dove will not bring the olive tree as a sign of calm, but as a sign of danger. today i ask you to send that dove to the farthest corner of the globe, so that it returns bearing the will for change of all the nations of the world. only together will we succeed in founding a new covenant, no longer of god with man, but of man with god's creation. mr president, the great argentine writer jorge luis borges used to say that he was an exiled european, referring to the european ancestry of a large part of the population of our american continent. after centuries of interbreeding and exchange, it's likely that there are many americans in exile here as well. we are exiled by the geographical fate of an ocean, and the historical fate of a pendulum that unites and separates us as circumstances come. i think it's time to let go of that fixed pendulum of union, to go back to the path that the winds took 180 million years ago, before the earth suffered the original rift, when europe collided with america, and it would have been possible to walk from paris to new york. we are members of a single species, still able to harvest the best flowers from the garden of life. our dreams are our common heritage, and our decisions impact the lives of everyone else, whether we like it or not. i believe that, far from being a threat, it is a wonderful opportunity. i think, as the greatest costa rican poet, jorge debravo, would tell us, that "it is wonderful, above all, to know that we have the virtue of making the most distant things we touch come alive, of stretching our gaze and not finding edges, because all the things we look at become, with us, infinite". i have no doubt that we will be able to use this infinite virtue for the good of all, europeans and americans, and that we will follow side by side the star of a morning of greater justice and freedom. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.)
president arias! on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to thank you very much for this great and important speech. you said that you and your country stand for democracy and freedom, that you are committed to fighting violence, terrorism and dictatorship. if you say that costa rica is a small country, then i would like to say: it does not matter how many people a country has or how large a country is geographically. it depends on the spirit of a country and the spirit of a president. when you speak, people say that president arias and costa rica stand for freedom, stand for democracy. that's why costa rica is a great country on this earth. (applause from the centre) you are a man of peace, and for that you were awarded the nobel peace prize in 1987. but you didn't settle for that. 21 years have passed, and today you stand for peace between people and for peace with nature. and on these principles the european parliament stands with you. i would also like to extend a warm welcome to the ministers of your government who are accompanying you, namely mr stagno ugarte, minister for foreign affairs, and mr ruiz gutiérrez, minister for economic affairs, who are also present in the chamber, and to the many costa rican citizens who live here in brussels and in belgium. be proud of your country! i am not talking about nationalism, because that is what countries with dictatorships and rule by force would be proud of. no, be proud of your country, of costa rica, because you represent the right values: democracy, freedom and peace! thank you very much again. i am not sure that this is the right time to do so. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have great respect for mr schulz, but his statement today was unacceptable. president medvedev this morning described the democratically elected georgian president saakashvili as a political corpse. that would be an outrage from a democratic point of view. but when you consider that mr medvedev represents a regime which had its predecessor swiad gamsachurdia assassinated, which had the chechen president assassinated and which has now had an ingush civil rights activist assassinated, it is almost a physical threat. whether one likes mr saakashvili or not, we must support the elected representatives of the georgian people in this situation, who have been the victims of an imperialist act and who are currently being strangled. i therefore believe that it is urgently necessary that we go a step further and deploy european peacekeeping forces in georgia following our resolution, which i welcome. we do not need a un or osce mandate for this, because georgia is a sovereign country and has asked us for a european presence. we must also ensure that this country can survive in freedom, because russian troops as peacekeepers, as the un and the osce have done, that's the arsonist as a fire captain!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the resolution, albeit with some stomach ache. the russia-georgia war has made clear the difference in crisis management. georgia has several unresolved problems. russia, however, is acting in the time-honored tradition of semi-basiatic despotism with cunning, provocation and military brutality. this is not just a danger to the caucasus or to ukraine, but to ourselves. our strengths are human rights, democracy, the rule of law and freedom, which we have won together, freedom from dependence and constraint. we must urgently defend these values through a common foreign and security policy.
in writing. - i voted against this own-initiative report because it interferes too much with freedom of expression and resembles censorship by dictatorial means. all questions of the admissibility and ethics of advertising are already adequately regulated at national level. the eu is not called upon to restrict the diversity of freedom of expression and freedom of advertising. fortunately, this is only an own-initiative report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the current debate on possible sanctions against russia in response to the caucasus conflict shows once again how lightly sanctions are sometimes handled. the legitimacy of the european social fund as a universal and undifferentiated instrument is questionable, and it is unclear when and how its effectiveness is actually guaranteed. the most important thing is to evaluate the effectiveness of eu sanctions correctly. they must not hit the wrong person, but rather they must be tailor-made. often, repressive governments are responsible. the criteria used for evaluation remain a key question, despite all efforts. when do sanctions actually lead to a change in behaviour? instead of ad hoc sanctions, i would like to see an eu strategy that leads to a coherent and sustainable sanctions policy. however, this would require a consensus on the optimal conditions for their use. the commission has not yet adopted a real sanctions strategy. this report is a step in the right direction. the european parliament is the most important promoter of human rights. eu sanctions should not be an aggressive political instrument but should be in the interest of the people on the ground. sanctions that target the civilian population are counterproductive and miss the point.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the latest statistics show that the mdg 5 has gone a long way overall, and maternal mortality has even increased in africa and south asia. each year 536,000 women die from the effects of pregnancy and childbirth. 99% of deaths occur in developing countries. one in 16 women in africa dies in pregnancy or childbirth. in developed countries, the likelihood is much lower. the most common causes of death are severe bleeding, infections and improperly performed abortions. an estimated 68,000 women die each year as a result of unsafe abortions, and millions suffer lifelong disabilities or other health damage as a result. 97% of all unsafe abortions are performed in developing countries. every minute a woman dies in the world from pregnancy and childbirth. we have the moral obligation and the ability to prevent this. in developing countries, and here particularly in rural areas, women urgently need universal access to universal health care, medical care and counselling for pregnancy and childbirth. i also call for family planning, including access to effective contraceptives and safe abortions. improving reproductive health and eliminating all forms of discrimination against women are essential and crucial prerequisites for achieving the millennium development goals by 2015.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report's consensus is the shared conviction that a multilateral system of rules and standards is important and necessary, that trade and development need not be opposites, and that the european union, given its economic weight, has a special responsibility in shaping international economic relations. the main differences, however, are in the approach. it is true that it is important to significantly improve access to, quality and choice of services worldwide, especially in developing countries. but a blanket approach of competition, liberalisation and privatisation will not achieve this, especially in the areas of public services: water, health, education, energy and passenger transport. the commission's strategy of opening up markets in multilateral and increasingly bilateral negotiations is far less the right way to promote sustainable development in the world, because it is aimed primarily at global access for european transnational companies and far too little at small and mediumsized enterprises. the european union is also seeking to conclude free trade agreements with countries such as china, korea, india, asean and the acp countries, including those relating to foreign investment. germany, on the other hand, is introducing a law which will limit the share of foreign voting shares in a german company to a maximum of 25%. when bolivia felt that the much higher share of foreign capital in its natural gas production had to be restricted, europe shouted zeter and mordio. my group believes that each country must decide for itself when, under what rules and to what extent it wants to open up to global competition. president arias said today that we need an asymmetrical approach. that's the key.
member of the commission. − mr president, the proposal the honourable members are debating today seeks to modernise rules adopted in 1989 on the market for the distribution of airline services. computerised reservation systems (crs) act as intermediaries between airlines and travel agents in the sales chain for air tickets. in the early 1990s, computerised reservation systems were practically the only channel for the sale of airline tickets. in addition, all the crs were controlled by airlines. the latter were therefore more tempted to abuse their position in the crs, for example, by biasing displays in their favour. the code of conduct for the use of crs establishes a number of safeguards to prevent abuse. it complements competition law since it adds measures to deal with sector-specific risks. it requires that all companies participating in the system are treated on a non-discriminatory basis. for example, the same fee is to be paid by all airlines. the code also lays down special obligations for parent carriers – i.e. those which own or control the crs. the code of conduct has been very effective in preventing all kinds of abuse. however, since the code of conduct was introduced, the market for the sale of air tickets has changed considerably as alternative sales channels have developed. today, nearly half of all reservations no longer go through a crs but are made on internet sites or through airline call centres. the competitive pressure of these alternative sales methods has significantly reduced the risk of abuse through a crs. the new situation also requires an adjustment of the code of conduct. the rules laid down in the code of conduct significantly restrict the margin for negotiation between the crs and airlines. the crs are therefore not genuinely in competition with each other, and the fees paid to them by airlines and passengers are escalating. the commission’s proposal seeks to allow for more negotiation and, in particular, the possibility to set prices as regards the fee for the use of a crs. this will enable airlines to negotiate the reduction of rates with the crs. boosting competition between the crs will help to reduce costs and to improve the quality of the services they provide. at the same time, the proposal maintains and strengthens the safeguards for the prevention of abuse and protection of consumers, and in particular the neutrality of information provided and the protection of personal data. in addition, the proposal continues to impose special obligations on crs parent carriers. the definition of ‘parent carrier’ has led to heated debates, since the obligations imposed on those companies are very burdensome. modernisation of the code of conduct will make it possible to reduce the cost of distribution of their services while guaranteeing the protection of consumers’ interests. this is urgently required from the viewpoint of the competitiveness of our industry, as our companies’ competitors already benefit from a liberalised environment and lower sales costs. i am therefore pleased at the speed with which parliament has taken up this issue. i wish to express my appreciation of the work performed by your rapporteur, tim kirkhope, and the tran committee, as well as the committees which expressed their opinions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. on behalf of my group, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr timothy kirkhope, very warmly. he has presented a very balanced report and worked very closely with the shadow rapporteurs. the text of the directive, which was negotiated with the french presidency, provides for better protection of consumers against fraudulent offers on air and rail transport, and ensures fair competition between rail and air transport companies, as a result of clear transparency rules. the new view also confirms that the epp-ed group was the first group to have rightly stopped the commission's attempt in 2005 to repeal this regulation as obsolete. we need it and we will prove it by our vote to protect consumers. although more and more travellers are actually booking their tickets directly with airlines or on the internet, the majority of consumers continue to rely on their travel agents, who in turn need to be able to rely on non-discriminatory, truthful and low-cost offers in the computerised reservation system. the prices must now include all costs, including fees, so that travel agencies can actually provide consumers with transparent and comparable offers. the commission has also proposed that the rules on the transparency and competition of parent companies should be strengthened to prevent the systems from giving preference to their offerings to the detriment of other airlines and consumers. i am glad that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to speak to the house. i believe that the text we have agreed with the french presidency on parent companies provides sufficient protection against the preferential treatment of certain airlines, and that is why amendment by the famous amendment no 48 is completely unnecessary, and if it were to be adopted tomorrow it would delay or even call into question the adoption of this whole complex. i appeal to you to make a clear, final decision tomorrow to protect consumers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to focus on the controversial issue of the definition of parent companies. the objective of the definition is to prevent airlines with shares in a crs from abusing their position in an anti-competitive manner. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the restructuring of the airline industry. the commission's practice of carrying out a case-by-case examination of suspected market abuse has proven to be effective. cases of improper influence have been investigated and punished. it's happened twice before. there is no reasonable reason to change this basic best practice. the definition of a parent company that has been found, based on the competition law term of decisive influence, is consistent with this best practice. the term has been around for 40 years. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be allowed to apply the principle of equal treatment to all airlines. for the air transport market, this means a massive and unnecessary intervention in the current competitive situation. the consumer would not benefit either. the laughing fours would be british airways, american airlines and others who would benefit from such a shift in the competitive situation. the only european computer reservation system would also have to face a competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis its us competitors in the highly competitive european market. i think that is politically inappropriate, even negligent, and i therefore recommend that we accept the compromise that has been reached.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 4 september, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142) '
the next item is the report by mr josu ortuondo larrea, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on a european port policy [2008/2007 (ini) ] (a6-0308/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 4 september.
the next item is the report by mr michael cramer, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the transport of goods in europe [2008/2008 (ini) ] (a6-0326/2008).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the shadow rapporteurs and the secretariat of the committee on transport and tourism, and in particular mr catot, for the report on 'freight transport in europe'. it was a fruitful cooperation, which was reflected in the fact that the report was adopted unanimously in the committee without a vote against and without abstentions. the citizens of europe are increasingly suffering from the burden of the growing freight traffic, especially on the road. my report is an attempt to overcome the truck plague. the eu commission is given clear targets for its action plan on freight transport, which it intends to present shortly. the independent rail freight network in europe is clearly rejected. although it is a beautiful dream, in most countries railways are home to mixed transport, i.e. freight and passenger trains running on the same track. the use of existing infrastructure must therefore be improved by all technical and logistical means available, and this infrastructure must of course be extended if necessary. the commission's idea of 'green corridors' has been given more substance in the report. transport should be shifted to environmentally friendly modes of transport in order to reduce not only accidents, congestion and noise, but also air pollution and landscape consumption. the report also calls for the development of a european energy policy to promote the use of renewable energy sources, with the emphasis on wind and solar energy. the report also sends a clear message to the debate on the eurovignette, by including the polluter pays principle, the user and polluter principle for all modes of transport: heavy goods vehicle transport, which is highly polluting, must no longer be subsidised, and the external costs must be fully internalised. (interception)... and above all with the plane. the shift of freight from road to rail remains a key objective. the report therefore calls for at least 40% of eu transport funding to be invested in rail. in europe, only about 17% of goods are transported by rail, while in the highway country of the usa the share is 40%. the eu will only be able to cope with the growth of freight transport if it improves its rail infrastructure. the transport ministers of the member states are urged to overcome national bias and to encourage the investment needed for europe in their countries. the link between modes of transport is also important. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the transport services provided by the community, such as the introduction of a single transport document for ships, railways, lorries and aircraft, a european maritime transport area without frontiers, a european but also a world standard for intermodal loading units and, in particular, better links between sea and inland ports and the road and rail network in the hinterland. despite the unanimous vote, my group has tabled amendments because some votes in committee were extremely close. the most important of these concerns the request to the commission to identify the main bottlenecks and problems in european rail freight transport. this is precisely the kind of analysis that is needed to quickly address the weaknesses in the railway network and thus create greater capacity. the european commission itself has very much welcomed this idea, and i hope that we will get a majority for this tomorrow at the plenary vote . i would like to thank all the members for their attention.
member of the commission. − madam president, in a set of four communications adopted in 2007 and 2008, the commission has developed its strategy for improving the performance of the systems of freight transport in europe. these communications are: firstly, the eu’s freight transport agenda, boosting the efficiency, integration and sustainability of freight transport in europe; secondly, the action plan for freight transport logistics; thirdly, towards a rail network giving priority to freight; and fourthly, the multiannual contract for rail infrastructure quality. i am particularly pleased to see that all of these communications have now become the subject of a motion for a resolution in your assembly, which indicates the importance parliament attaches to this matter. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr michael cramer, for the work that he has done, and all the members who have contributed to it. in terms of tonnes per kilometre, the white paper of 2001 foresaw a 50% growth in goods transport in europe between 2000 and 2020. the commission will update that estimate next year, but it is already clear that it was pretty accurate. the major challenges presented by this growth, the fight against congestion and climate change, reductions in pollutant emissions and guaranteed security of the energy supply are more topical now than ever they have been. the choice of means of transport should, therefore, be directed towards the least pollutant ones, although each means of transport, including road transport, should be used where it is most efficient and most suitable. there is also a need to improve the efficiency of the european transport system by implementing measures aimed at introducing information technology on a large scale, in administrative simplification as well as enhanced service quality. i welcome the fact that the draft report is encouraging the commission to pursue a goods transport policy that places a greater emphasis on sustainability. our wish is to create a transport system that is reliable, effective and viable, both financially and environmentally. to this end i am convinced that co-modality – that is, the rational and optimum use of all modes of transport on their own and in combination – must become one of the guiding rules behind our thinking and action. in addition, the various modes of transport must meet a number of performance criteria that are essential to competitiveness. in particular, punctuality, regularity, reliability, high quality, sufficient capacity, interoperability and transnational coordination on international corridors are some of the watchwords for an array of services that has the customer absolutely in mind. it is through specific, immediate action at a controlled cost such as those contained in the text of your resolution, together with other european initiatives such as the green paper on the future of the ten-t, that we will be able to increase the efficiency of the european transport system.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. my group supports the own-initiative report of the committee on transport with its various proposals for freight transport in europe. the framework for demand-driven and environmentally friendly freight transport is crucial for growth and employment in the european union. but i must also say that the european union and the member states are called upon to make a substantial effort to develop and build efficient transport structures. we will remind the commission of this when we make the mid-term review of the finances. it is not worth making a big deal of it if we do not provide the money to expand the transeuropean networks. the development of transport infrastructure is particularly important for rail transport. the most heavily used rail corridors should be developed as a matter of priority and equipped with the european transfrontier train guidance system ertms, so that we can rapidly shift freight from road to rail. but frankly, commissioner, when you drew up the list of proposals on freight services - i remember that neil kinnock already had a concept of rail networks for freight - you took it up again in the commission's proposal on the construction of a rail network primarily for freight. the commission has now stopped talking about this because you and we know that there is not enough money to provide a second railway network alongside a normal, reasonably developed, needs-based system. let us build up sensible networks for dual use: passenger trains primarily during the day and rail trains primarily at night, and then we must solve the problem of noise, because in german and other big cities and along the rhine the noise at night really bothers the citizens and prevents them from sleeping. so let us talk about concrete measures to reduce noise in the railway sector, about the transeuropean networks, about the dual use of the railway network. but more importantly, we need to be logistically sound. that, mr cramer, is a little too little in the report. it is important that member states and the eu work better with industry and service companies to make better use of freight logistics. of course, the application of logistics is a primary task of companies. you know best how to use logistics. but the european union and the member states can help to remove unnecessary government restrictions and - i agree with mr cramer - for example, to provide uniform customs documents, so that logistics can be used much better. so let's build infrastructure at the state level and let's work with the economy to make the best use of transportation logistics.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. of course, we have to take care of our own noses. we cannot talk about sustainable transport on sundays and do the opposite from monday to friday. the commission's figures show that 60% of the money that goes to transport goes to road co-financing and only 20% goes to environmentally friendly rail. it can be said that in europe transport is too cheap and environmentally friendly transport is too expensive. it is also due to the conditions of the environment. we have, for example, a mandatory railway toll for each member state. this applies to every locomotive on every kilometre of track, whereas the toll on environmentally harmful road traffic is voluntary and limited in height and applies only to motorways, usually only to lorries over 12 tonnes. you must change these unfair conditions or you will not solve the climate and transport problems. because traffic is forecast to increase. but why is it growing? because it's free. there are several examples that have been mentioned. let me give you an example from your own country. the united kingdom exports 1.5 million tonnes of pigmeat every year. if you look at the import balance, the united kingdom is also importing another 1.5 million tonnes of pigmeat. we could avoid that. we can avoid these transports and use the capacity that we need to do so. we must therefore avoid a lot of nonsense in europe about transport capacity, and then we must shift transport to environmentally friendly modes of transport and make it efficient so that we can safeguard mobility, the supply of goods to people as well, but also protect the environment, because that is the need of the hour. without a healthy environment, neither we nor our children and grandchildren have the future we all want.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 4 september. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i have to say, madam president, in short, some of the colleagues don't know anything yet. you have referred to the fact that it was decided yesterday to hold the next meeting in brussels. i hear there's a huge bed problem here in brussels because the hotel rooms are booked for a fair. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that would have been the best solution. with a little goodwill, you could have done that. the second point i would like to make is closely related to this: has the security situation in this building been checked? i hear there's a significant shortage of trees here. was this building here tested against the same criteria as the strasbourg building now?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it's half-time for the action plan, and so we're going to take stock. and we have to ask ourselves: are there visible results? the commission is sitting back and complacent. but if the air we breathe and the water we drink are making us sick, then it is high time that europe became the driving force behind the global new approach to these health risks. the action plan must therefore not be an addendum to existing eu policies, but must set new standards. i welcome the fact that the environment committee has taken a very critical position on the action plan and has called for significant improvements. it is our firm conviction that the action plan is doomed to failure unless it is based on an active preventive policy. and one thing must be clear: without clear quantitative objectives, it remains a toothless tiger. we are pleased that the environmental report also has a green handwriting, especially in the field of nanotechnology. it is clear that the action plan does not take sufficient account of the new risks which may arise. it is scandalous that the european commission continues to hide its head in the sand in the face of the risks of nanotechnology and to claim that existing legislation is sufficient. we know that the opposite is true. nanotechnology is practically taking place in a lawless space. electrosmog: again, we know that electromagnetic radiation is a big and growing problem. that is why we cannot, as the ep, water down the limits, which are already too high. and also indoor air quality: the eu has achieved milestones in protecting against particulate matter, but we spend most of our time indoors. the commission cannot continue to turn a blind eye to this. we call on the commission to come forward with clear legislative proposals to improve air quality in all relevant areas, from building projects to adhesives for furniture, etc. we are particularly concerned that the protection of particularly sensitive groups such as children and pregnant women should be given greater consideration, and that the precautionary principle should be the guiding principle in all questions. we would have liked more, of course, but we hope that the commission will not stop at this and that we will not come to a standstill but that we will be able to take a step forward.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the council representative has spoken of the fact that there is considerable disagreement within the council. there are also some in the european parliament. the background to these debates is: what is the best way to view soil - as a fertile place for plant nutrition and the basis of life in an organic farming system with high co2 capture or as a pure support substance for plants in an agro-industrial production, controlled by oil, chemicals and genetic engineering, with the most dangerous climate influences? these two tendencies are also present in the european union. and we also have land that is being taken out of agricultural production. the committee on agriculture and rural development has now delivered an opinion, which has also been the subject of controversy, because the rapporteur who was appointed wanted to reject a directive. the majority of the committee then made a statement in the spirit of sound economic policy, and this was incorporated in the report. the adoption of this directive would be very beneficial from an agricultural point of view. i cannot accept or understand the resistance of the traditional agricultural associations. they are making a point because historically farming has created the cultural landscapes and is also able to preserve them. i cannot assume that there will be too much red tape. mr mulder, you mentioned that this is already the case in some countries, including germany. no red tape, please. why should not these examples, of which you speak, be set out in a framework directive with a clear principle of subsidiarity, in which regional, cultural, social and climatic conditions can be taken into account, and then it is decided on the spot what is necessary and what is not?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. soil protection is a vital task for a healthy agriculture for future generations. i would like to emphasize everything that has been said in this connection. but none of these arguments proves that soil protection is a european task. not every problem in europe is a problem for europe. soil is a local, a local medium. soil pollution does not generally have any transboundary effects. there is therefore no argument at all that soil protection should be european or even have a european added value. a large number of european countries have functioning soil protection systems. and there is not the slightest reason to impose european rules on those who do not have them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that would be absurd. soil protection is a matter for the member states, and they can do it themselves, for reasons of subsidiarity. that is why the council was right to suspend this initiative, including that of your country. i very much hope that the french republic will maintain this position. i have no doubt that it would be useful to draw up a european soil protection strategy. i would also have no problem with europe contributing to the financing of soil protection where it is not yet fully implemented. but i am firmly opposed to the idea that, because of the lack of legislation on soil protection in some countries, harmonized legislation on soil protection is now being imposed on all of them, and that this legislation is also being financed by the community. that is not the meaning of europe. that would be a piece of highly unnecessary bureaucracy of the kind that drives citizens away. and they express that in elections and referendums. and this has to stop.
i am not going to go into detail. we have a very important vote today. since mr schulz is concerned by mr zaleski's statement, i give him the floor. but after that, we want to vote. we have also held the debate on georgia yesterday and drafted a resolution, so we do not want to repeat that today, but to vote on it at the same time. but since mr schulz is being asked, he will have the floor.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that mr zaleski may not have listened to me very carefully yesterday. i didn't accuse any people. it is not my intention to accuse any people. as regards the crimes of the germans against humanity in the second world war, i have more than once expressed my shame at the people in whose name these crimes were committed. i would like to repeat that here. i am one of the germans who want to make sure that this never happens again. but one thing is true. the european parliament has been a party to the peace process in the middle east, and it has been a party to the peace process in the middle east. that is also true of mr saakashvili. (applause from the centre)
i am not going to go into detail. this is a question that concerns us all very much. i do not want to describe my speech to the european council as a successful attempt to reconcile the different positions. but i would like to recommend this speech again, and i think most of you in this house will find yourselves in one of those speeches.
i would have made a statement at the end of the sitting because i would like to avoid having a debate on this now. (applause from the centre) can we agree that i will inform you at the end of the debate of the state of play of the resolution so that we can really come to a vote? you'll also receive a notification. open the e-mails that are delivered to you. but i'm going to have to make a statement at the end, and then you'll all be here.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. there are certain industries that are trying to prevent legislation in the interests of their companies. i can only say that we want to strengthen consumer rights with this code of conduct. we must strengthen consumer rights so that we can get fair deals from the computer systems. we are firmly opposed to the delaying tactics of the socialists, who are trying to destroy the compromise with the french government and thus to bring the whole thing to naught in this electoral period. i ask that you reject the transfer back.
- i'm not sure. i am extremely sorry that i did not take note of your message. i hope it won't happen again. submit your voting behavior here, and it will be recorded correctly, so that it will also be recorded in history, as you have decided.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
that is the way it is, ladies and gentlemen. the european parliament has already said that it will not vote on the report. the bureau of parliament considered the matter yesterday. some repair work is still being carried out in strasbourg. the bureau adopted a unanimous decision last night, also on a proposal from mr fazakas, which we intend to publish after the conference of presidents has been informed of it, which is precisely what has happened, so that the september ii meeting will also take place here in brussels. (applause from the centre) yes, don't get your hopes up too soon. it has been noted in this building that it is raining heavily in several places. that too is being examined. we want the same standard of security here in brussels as in strasbourg, and you can be sure that security is the priority in all cases. the final evaluation by the experts will take place on 22 september, as things stand at present. that leaves enough time to decide on the october meeting. i wish you a safe and pleasant stay here in brussels and, first of all, a good appetite for lunch!
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. once again, it is necessary to speak about human rights violations in iran, and to do so in the shortest possible time. three months ago we in this house drew up a resolution on executions in iran. unfortunately, things have not improved since then. on the contrary, in the shadow of the nuclear crisis, the murders of the mullah regime continue unabated. just a week ago, 18-year-old behnam saree was publicly executed. last week a 20-year-old man was hanged for a crime he committed when he was 15. the procedure is always the same: the young men are made to stand on a stool, the noose is placed around their necks, and when the executioner pushes the stool away, the noose pulls in mercilessly. i wonder, in the face of this barbaric act, whether there can be an increase in barbarism. i would like to conclude by saying that yes, ladies and gentlemen. the execution of minors is just such an increase. these death sentences pronounced and imposed on minors constitute a serious violation of the international obligations and commitments of the islamic republic of iran. iran is a party to international conventions and has accordingly undertaken not to execute juvenile offenders. it is already macabre and bordering on tasteless when iranian government officials respond to criticism of this practice by saying that they would wait until the age of majority to execute. iran is the country with the highest number of executions of minors, and holds the most shameful top spot. since 1990, according to amnesty international, nowhere else in the world has there been so many executions of minors. in 2007 and 2008 alone, 15 minors were murdered. the situation of juvenile offenders facing the death penalty has reached an unacceptably critical stage in iran. at least 132 juvenile offenders are on death row, but the actual number could be much higher. the situation in prisons is also dramatic: since 25 august, several hundred kurdish political prisoners have been on hunger strike in iranian prisons. they are protesting against the inhuman conditions, against torture and ill-treatment and against the death penalty. the international community must act urgently. we must insist relentlessly and persistently on iran's commitment to respect human rights. the situation is far too precarious to allow this matter to be postponed.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a colleague on the left has just abused the sad subject of the death penalty in iran and the terrible crimes that are taking place there to attack religion itself. he blamed the religious nature of the regime. i think this is absurd. it is an ordinary totalitarian regime which misuses the islamic religion for its own purposes. that is the problem, and we must condemn this regime forcefully, not islam or religion per se. the worst regimes in world history have been those which have called for national or international socialism, as china, which has been mentioned several times, does today. we must therefore be clear about this: we must not have ideological disputes here, not even with iran. this is not about ideology, this is about the universality of human rights. and this universality of human rights extends beyond ideological front lines. there are no asian human rights! there are no islamic human rights that are less secure for people and that perhaps in one way or another can tolerate the death penalty. we are radically against the death penalty, whether it is practiced in the usa, china or iran, without equating these countries. we must be clear about one thing: the iranian regime is a totalitarian regime and it must go.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, i would just like to say that our group is also against this oral amendment and believes that the agreement should continue to be mentioned as it was negotiated at the beginning of the week.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 4 september 2008. (the sitting was opened at 5 p.m.)
last night, the terrorist organization eta committed another murder. a 46-year-old military officer, luis conde de la cruz, has been killed by a car bomb in northern spain. it was the third car bomb to explode in spain in 24 hours. in the three attacks, several people were injured, one of them seriously. the european parliament condemns in the strongest terms this terrorist act and wishes to express its deep concern. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express my deepest condolences to the family and all the relatives of officer luis conde de la cruz and to express our solidarity with spain, its authorities and in particular the spanish security forces. i would also like to express our support and sincere sympathy to those injured in the attacks and their families. we must be very clear: terrorism is a direct attack on freedom, human rights and democracy. we cannot repeat often enough that there is no justification for terrorism. that is why we must always act together in our fight against terrorism on the basis of the rule of law and with the full force of the law. the european union is a community of solidarity. a terrorist attack in one of the member states of the european union is a terrorist attack against the whole of the european union, against each and every one of us. i ask the house to rise for a minute of silence. (parliament adopted the resolution)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 18 september 2008, in accordance with rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. monday, tuesday and thursday: no change wednesday:the liberal group requests that the deadline for tabling joint motions for resolutions and amendments to the european parliament's priorities for the commission's legislative and work programme be extended until tomorrow, tuesday 23 september 2008, at 10.00 a.m. the vote will take place on wednesday 24 september 2008.
i would like to thank mr cohn-bendit very much. i have been following this development very closely for some time. we must have absolute transparency about this, because the people who attack us demand transparency from us - so of course they must also submit themselves to these standards. we need absolute transparency as to how much money this organisation represented by mr ganley, libertas, has received and where the money comes from. we have heard from the irish media - i quote what we read in ireland last week - that mr ganley has claimed in the past that the donations came from ordinary citizens and that they were small donations. now he has admitted that he himself has provided his organisation with 200 000 euros from private funds, and it has now also been confirmed that mr ganley has concluded contracts with the pentagon for the execution of military orders of at least 200 million, i think, dollars. other scales go much further. we must pursue these matters with clarity and put them on the table. we cannot allow europe to suffer because people who demand transparency do not want to submit themselves to these standards. (applause from the centre) i would like to say very emphatically that i have great admiration for the irish minister for europe, dick roche, who has made it his personal concern to pursue these matters, and i would like to expressly support dick roche in continuing to pursue these matters with such consistency. ladies and gentlemen, i take from the applause you have given me that we stand with those who want absolute transparency on all these issues to avert damage to europe. (applause from the centre)
we shall reflect on this question again. i would ask the groups to contact each other again to see if there can be a solution. we are now taking note of this, as our colleague philip bushill-matthews has said.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
yes, thank you very much. all men have the same dignity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the new partnership agreement with russia must be based on the eu's key pillars of democracy, human rights, freedom and the rule of law. russia's actions in georgia have once again shown us that it is not prepared to respect the rule of law and international agreements, even under dmitri medvedev. the six-point plan for georgia calls for the restoration of the situation of august 7. this includes the withdrawal of russian forces to the front lines before the start of hostilities in south ossetia and not an additional contingent of 3,800 troops. in addition, human rights are being systematically trampled underfoot. the situation of political prisoners is intolerable, as the case of mikhail khodorkovsky shows. the same applies to the non-compliance with the energy charter, which was also signed by russia and should therefore be binding on russia.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. the debate is indeed taking place at the right time, albeit by chance. my report deals with the other side of the coin, so to speak. mr rasmussen had to deal in particular with the impact on the financial markets, and the legal affairs committee naturally dealt with the company law aspect in particular and, where appropriate, with the need to change european company law. we are all shocked by the events of the past few days! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the problem we see in practice at the moment is that profits are privatized, but losses are socialized. it is a joke of history that the us treasury secretary paulson, who used to be the head of goldman sachs himself, is now in a situation where he has to take $700 billion of taxpayers' money in his hands to fix and undo what his own industry has done. it's really sad. there are more and more examples of the public perception of the classic family business, which takes care of its employees, with its own responsibility, which is itself responsible, fading, and on the other hand, there is more and more the impression that we are governed, at least in the field of the economy, in part by pale top managers, by employees who are highly paid but who no longer have any responsibility. i think that this is a devastating impression that is being created for our market economy system, and that it is politically necessary that we take the necessary measures to restore order, to actually remove this devastating impression. in addition, it is not just the big ones that are affected, but now also the small investors, every taxpayer, all those who depend on public finances, because billions of public funds are needed to repair the damage. i admit - and this debate has shown this perfectly, and this is also undeniable - that one aspect that we originally focused on - the area of hedge funds and private equity - is not causative of the problems we are dealing with at the moment. but here too - and this has been shown by the debate in the house and the hearings in both committees - there are clearly gaps in the areas of harmonization and regulation. it has been rightly noted that these areas are also regulated by national rules, sometimes more or less strongly, depending on the tradition of the different nations and on the rules of the financial markets that prevail there. but at the same time it has also become clear that we need to harmonise and regulate at european level to ensure that these sectors, which have now reached critical mass, cannot pose a risk to financial markets. i would like to mention just a few of the points which were also mentioned in the draft report, which was adopted by the legal affairs committee in june, when no one was talking about the crisis we are now in. i'm thinking about stock lending and short selling. now we hear that a number of major financial market regulators have banned it, for good reason! we demanded then, and we demand now, that this should at least be investigated. the consequences of this must be drawn and legislative proposals made if necessary. it is a question of better identification of shareholders, of transparency, of tightening up the rules on transparency so that companies and also the managers of these companies should know who they really belong to, so that they can also act responsibly towards those who own them. the point is that in the context of lending certain risks are rationally examined, that they are also subject to reasonable, necessary consequences, so that huge levers cannot be moved with relatively small means, which in the end produce effects that are completely out of control and which subsequently cause harm to the general public and to others. the commission has already made a number of proposals for specific codes, for voluntary rules on how to behave. the very fact that such rules have been developed, even if they are currently voluntary, does however demonstrate that the industry itself seems to accept a certain need for regulation. so it makes perfect sense to look at this and see if we can't do something about it. asset flipping is another case to deal with. corporate law has to address this issue, because i believe that companies cannot be looted. we are waiting for a concrete proposal from the commission. this is a report under article 192 and the commission must react to it. we hope she will soon.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on legal affairs and in particular their rapporteurs, mr rasmussen and mr lehne, for the work done in the preparation of these two reports. few would have predicted one year ago that the situation in financial markets would be as serious as it is today. and the effects of the crisis will continue to be felt for some time. it started with reckless selling of mortgages in the united states, promoted by banks and others who did not care about lending standards because they could offload the loans to others through securitisation. credit-rating agencies then gave respectability to these high-risk products by assigning low credit-default risk to them. financial institutions around the world bought up these products without, it seems, doing any serious risk assessment of their own. in the light of events over the past year, it has been incredible to see how little understanding senior managers of financial institutions had of the risk they were taking on board. no doubt the size of the profits that were rolling in blunted serious risk analysis. supervisors seemed to have no better idea of the risk in these hugely complex products. things were so sliced up, diced up and repackaged that no one knew where the real risk was. one observer referred some months ago to this unfolding crisis as like watching a train crash in slow motion. last week the crisis went into hyper speed. the concerted actions of the world’s major central banks and the announcement of the support measures by the united states authorities have restored some calm to the markets. we must welcome this given the extreme situation faced by regulators. i also welcome that the united states authorities have shown recognition of the need to address in their proposals similar assets held by some non-us financial institutions. one thing we can be thankful for in europe is that we have not seen the same scale of destruction as has happened in the united states. although banks in the eu have been suffering from a similar lack of confidence in lending to each other, there has not been anything on the same scale as experienced in the united states. but no one is out of the woods yet. there are difficult trading conditions ahead. the downturn in economies will have its effects. vigilance and transparency are key if confidence is to be restored in markets. at eu level we must continue to improve our supervisory arrangements for cross-border supervisory financial institutions. there is a window of opportunity that must not be missed. all of this leads me to believe we are going to have a different financial services sector when this is all over and we will have a different regulatory framework as well. if moral hazard cannot be shown to work then the taxpayer cannot be expected to pick up the bill for the excess and irresponsible risk-taking of private institutions. the ultimate shape of whatever new regulatory approach will be adopted will be designed over the coming period as the lessons from this crisis and the appropriate responses become clearer. we need to continue to work closely with other regulatory authorities and to the extent possible dovetail our responses. as many of you will be aware, we have already been taking action. for a year now the commission has been working on a detailed road map agreed by the council of finance ministers and endorsed by the european council. we have been refining our response as the turmoil unfolds. we have already taken measures to improve convergence and cooperation between supervisors. a new memorandum of understanding was agreed by eu supervisory authorities, finance ministers and central banks setting out common principles including the establishment of cross-border stability groups. this is now being implemented. we have been reviewing enhancements of deposit guarantee schemes. a special group which will report by the end of this year has been set up to look at the pro-cyclicality effects of current instruments including basel 2 and ifrs. in close cooperation with the financial stability forum, the iasb has set up an advisory panel on fair valuation. work on off-balance-sheet items is also under way in the iasb. industry has come forward with valuable data which improves transparency for regulators of the securitisation market. the commission is pressing industry to refine this information so that transparency for regulators is improved. in the light of these activities, and others i will refer to, it should come as no surprise to members when i say that i can welcome many of the points set out in mr rasmussen’s report. what is important is that we are able to identify the key measures we should take now and get them implemented. as i said earlier, the market turmoil exposed failings in the risk management of large financial institutions. it also highlighted a number of areas of regulatory weakness. it is on these areas that regulatory attention must now be focused. mr rasmussen has flagged in his report many of the most pressing areas: conflicts of interest in credit-rating agencies, the need for improvement in the valuation of illiquid assets and the misalignment of incentives in the ‘originate and distribute’ model. over the past year i have kept members informed, both in plenary and particularly the committee on economic and monetary affairs, of the work we have been doing on improving capital requirements in banks, as well as my ideas for regulating credit-rating agencies. we all agree, i believe, on the need for a strengthening of capital requirements and an obligation for transparency and due diligence in regards to structured products. we have been working on changes to the capital requirements directive, which will improve the management of large exposures, improve quality of capital through harmonising treatment of hybrid capital. we have also been looking at strengthening the supervision of cross-banking groups. in the next few weeks i will be proposing to the commission two separate regulatory measures to deal with these and other issues: firstly, an amendment to the capital requirements directive and, secondly, a regulation on credit-rating agencies. i look forward to the support of the european parliament for these proposals which are very much in line with what you call for in this report. hedge funds and private equity feature in both reports. we have had some interesting exchanges over the years about the roles of hedge funds and private equity. one thing i believe we can agree on is that they were not the cause of the current turmoil. it has turned out that it was the regulated sector that had been allowed to run amok with little understood securitisation vehicles. i do not believe it is necessary at this stage to tar hedge funds and private equity with the same brush as we use for the regulated sector. the issues relating to the current turmoil are different. let us not forget that these funds are regulated in member states. hedge funds and private equity managers are authorised and supervised entities throughout europe. they are subject to the same market-abuse disciplines as other participants in financial markets. they are bound by similar transparency and consultation obligations when investing in public companies. exposure of the banking sector to hedge funds and private equity is subject to the capital requirements directive. but this does not mean that we are turning a blind eye to hedge funds and private equity. as these business models evolve and their role in financial markets changes, regulators around the world need to remain vigilant. the industries themselves must assume all the responsibilities that accompany a prominent role in european and global financial markets. several recent market initiatives indicate that this message is understood. our role should be to monitor closely these and other developments in the market and be ready to respond if and when necessary. i welcome the constructive suggestions for supporting the functioning of the single market. i would just like to mention at this stage that there is considerable work under way in the commission on private placement and venture capital. i agree with mr lehne that a sufficient degree of transparency is an essential condition for investor confidence. it is, therefore, indispensable if we want financial markets to function effectively. the report sets out a list of transparency rules that apply today to the different players in the financial markets in the eu. to my mind, what is important is that the market is provided with a sufficient degree of clear information that is useful. we need to find the balance between the need for confidentiality of the proprietary information of investment vehicles against the legitimate needs of investors, counterparties, regulators and investee firms. i am, therefore, pleased that the report puts an emphasis on the need to analyse the impact of the existing eu provisions and of additional member states’ rules in this field before one embarks on introducing any new legislation. the commission has already been very active in this field. we have held extensive consultations in the context of our shareholders’ rights initiative, where we looked at a number of issues that are touched upon in the report – stock lending, for example, and the question of the identification of shareholders. furthermore, we have recently published a call for tender for an outside study that will look at the implementation, in member states, of the transparency directive. this study should be available next year and will form the basis for a general evaluation of the directive, including the notification thresholds. as members will recall, the commission adopted, in spring of this year, a communication setting out its policy approach to sovereign wealth funds. we had come to the conclusion that these measures were appropriate but also sufficient to address the issues that currently are being discussed. this approach was endorsed by the european council; i see, though, that the committee on legal affairs does not entirely share this assessment. i shall make some brief remarks in this area. firstly, we should acknowledge that hedge funds and private equity in many senses are not unique – other institutional investors have similar objectives and nowadays use similar techniques. if in that situation we imposed special obligations on hedge funds and private equity, this would result in discrimination of these categories of investors. secondly, we should not make the mistake to perceive all activities of hedge funds as a threat to the market but we should also be aware of the positive effects that their activities have. let me be clear, the eu economy is going to need massive investment in the time ahead: without sovereign wealth funds, private equity and the like, europe’s recovery from today’s turmoil will be all the slower. thirdly, i agree that certain techniques, such as stock lending and the use of derivatives, do pose challenges to established models of governance. this is an area we, in conjunction with national supervisors, will be giving close attention to in the time ahead. in conclusion, these two reports will be significant contributions to our ongoing reflection. i commend members for these reports. the commission will examine your recommendations and report back to you as envisaged in the framework agreement. we remain fully committed to responding to this crisis with the measures necessary to restore confidence and stability.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this report was originally designed for hedge funds and private equity, but now it covers the entire financial system, which is completely messed up. the present crisis is the ugly aftereffect of a credit mania, namely the excessive expansion of debt. the federal reserve has kept interest rates too low for too long, essentially providing a subsidy on loans. we have adapted the report to the present situation and, in a joint effort with colleagues from the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, we have reached an agreement with mr rasmussen covering the whole financial system. we are grateful that this was almost unanimously passed in the economic committee. we can no longer rely on american standards and the setting of standards in the international financial system. we must create new european options of our own, and we have proposed to include a whole series of points in it and to leave them for consideration. first, we need to consider all financial institutions that use leverage in their respective risk assessment. we then say that in the global financial system, all players have to have risk-adjusted capital requirements. we should also set requirements for the initiators of packages and of syndicating packages, that they keep a piece away from these packages. the rating agencies have already been pointed out by mr rasmussen and mr lehne have to close information gaps and disclose conflicts of interest. we should consider whether we should not also hold the credit rating agencies liable for their ratings in the same way as auditors. we must then consider whether derivatives are not compulsory to be traded on the stock exchange, with the possible exception of interest rate swaps. and we demand that the supervisory boards of the banks ensure that the bonuses of the bankers are not only taken into account for the good deeds, but also for the eventual and final losses that may arise, that is to say that the incentives for the bankers apply in good and bad, not only in good. greed has been and is a poor adviser for financial strategies. we have had a reliable partner in the ecb in recent years, which has generally reacted somewhat more reasonably and more balancedly than the federal reserve - we can say that in retrospect. we also urgently need a european banking supervision for the euro area in the euro area, because we cannot continue to live with national supervision alone. that is to say, we expect that institutions will be created in europe, or voluntary associations, to better manage these issues that we are addressing, to prevent the next crisis of this magnitude.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have heard everything from the experts who drew up the report. it was an excellent piece of work and it has also received a great deal of support in our committee on economic and monetary affairs. in the last three years we have been asking, commissioner, to set up rules, to ask questions such as: how can we get more transparency in hedge funds, who gives more advice to the rating agencies and so on. you're from ireland, so you're an expert on horses. if the obstacles are high, the horses may become timid. but the fear of an obstacle is over now! we must now - and you promised that - come up with rules and make proposals. we must show that we have learned from all these crises and that we are going in new directions. you suggested it. i hope that you will send us the forms in october. i was in the vicinity of rome a few days ago at a large convention. the banking issue was, of course, the first subject discussed. it was in the paper on thursday, morgan stanley gives hope. and then on friday, the paper said, "morgan stanley is looking for protection". how can that be, in one day? there are transparency flaws and so on. if, after bear stearns, lehman brothers and merrill lynch, this investment bank is now sinking into the chaos of the financial markets, then there is an urgent need for remedies. i was in china recently. the chinese have said: our us model has failed, we must together - europe, china and others - find new ways. i hope that together we have the strength to walk these new paths, and that not only those who win are the laughing ones, but that those who lose are also taken back on board.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if i understood morgan stanley correctly in the last few days, they are less afraid of the stranglehold of their colleague martin schulz than of the hedge funds. and, commissioner, if i have understood anything from the discussion of the last few days, it is that the american consensus in this society, which has made many mistakes in dealing with the real estate and financial crisis, is that we no longer want to allow individual hard doors to take advantage of the freedom of the financial system and take advantage of the irregularity to bring the entire financial system to the wall. how long are we going to wait for not only the sick institutions but also the healthy ones to be given the red light, and for hedge funds and others to bet on their decline and then buy them back at cheap prices? that margin must be removed, and that is why i doubt whether what you have done here is enough. this is not the time to just commission new studies. this is not the time for further participatory observation. it's time to act! i have looked at a company in my constituency last week, a healthy company, a company which produces the new materials we need: the vacuum melting plant in hanau, near frankfurt. it was a healthy company until it was taken over by an american investor. the debt of the takeover is on the workforce, it is on the company. the company has now tried to leave the collective agreement and has been forced back into it by a hard strike. is this what we want all over europe? is this what we want, that the power of the european economy should be used for this kind of conflict, or are we going to come to our senses and fill the regulatory gap with european legislation? that is what is on the agenda. i have not seen, commissioner, in the last nine years, a debate on economic policy in this house in which you have been called upon to act so unanimously and so unanimously.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the transparency is so great that the highly endowed rating agencies, the even better endowed bank executives and the less well endowed regulators no longer knew what was going on. that's how much transparency there is. the need for action is obvious and needs no further justification. the commissioner has asked about the short sellers. it's not about whether the short sellers are the ones who end up with a loss themselves. it's about what they're moving and what damage that might do. so it's really about the consequences for others! this is precisely why the regulatory authorities of a number of countries have now reacted. it is a question - several colleagues have raised this - of the little man, the pensioner, the taxpayer. i would like to point out again that we are socializing the losses here, and that cannot be right. my report, like mr rasmussen's, contains a number of very specific proposals. i am particularly concerned with questions of company law. they are relatively easy to formulate and implement. basically, you just have to add to the existing rules. it is not at all about discriminating against any hedge fund. we have a situation in europe at the moment - this is undeniable - where these alternative financial market instruments are partly regulated by national rules, but partly very different. it is absolutely sensible to consolidate and regulate this in a common european financial market. to ask for further opinions now, after we have been discussing this for three years, there are inspection studies here in the house, the commission has dealt with the matter and we have held hearings on it, i think it is pointless, it is a waste of time. we really need to act now. the situation also calls for action. i would like to make one further comment on the question of public funds. we need state funds, and in the long run also investment by state funds from other countries, from third countries, because otherwise infrastructure expenditure in europe will probably not be financed in the long term. i am sure that the legal affairs committee will support you on this. but that is not directly related to the subject we are discussing today. we have always supported the initiatives taken by the commission in this respect and we will continue to do so.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i really hope that the fact that we're back in front of the camera tonight doesn't reflect back on what we really think of education. the bologna process is probably the most profound reform of higher education in recent years. in our day and age, knowledge is truly supposed to know no national boundaries. it is therefore in principle welcome that the countries and the universities have agreed to cooperate on this issue, regardless of the principle of subsidiarity which they otherwise always uphold. i appreciate that. but i also note that this has happened in every parliament. the european parliament was not contacted, nor were any of the 46 national parliaments. the bad thing is that we are constantly being asked as members of parliament about the bologna process. if something goes wrong, we're the ones who get the finger pointed at. but we have nothing to do with it, nor has the commission had anything to do with it! i am glad that the commissioner has now joined us and is helping to set up the bologna process in the context of our programmes in the field of education. well, the labor was hard, and it's not over yet. it would have been good to have involved the parliaments. we want to create a european higher education area by 2010. i can see that. students must have a wide range, a wide choice of courses of high quality. the bologna process sets out three priority areas for action: the introduction of the three-tier system of 'bachelor, master and doctorate', quality assurance and the recognition of qualifications and periods of study. the aim is to give high priority to student mobility and the quality of education. but the bologna process and the hot-button bachelor's process have led to - and this is what our hearings have shown - that fewer students dare to go abroad during their bachelor's degree and do part of their studies abroad, because this bachelor's degree has been overloaded with far too much material. you can't just shove five years of college into three years of a bachelor's degree. that is partly what has been done. and then it turns out that the students can't go out at all, so they can't take any study abroad. that's too bad! the erasmus programme is such a great programme, and all the opportunities beyond going abroad should be taken. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i don't think the credit system is working. it is not possible that in one country you get three points for a certain module and in another country only one point. there must be a european framework in which everyone is treated equally. in this respect, further work is needed. so i like the idea, but the execution is not very good. we should also ensure that universities do their utmost to exploit financial opportunities to facilitate mobility for all students who wish to do so. this is why universities often have to get out of their ivory tower and get in touch with business. how many large companies would consider it an honor to sponsor a doctoral or master's degree program? if there's a mercedes or a sony or something else on this master's program because of me, it should be on it. but the money that goes into it helps the students. it is not about anyone here dictating the content of the teaching, but it is about really finding sources of funding that make it possible for all those who are interested to study abroad. if we can get there with the help of the commission, we would all be very happy.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by roselyne lefrançois, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council framework decision amending framework decision 2002/475/jha on combating terrorism (com (2007) 0650 c6-0466/2007 2007/0236 ((cns)) (a6-0323/2008) and the report by martine roure, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the draft council framework decision on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters (re-consultation) (160/2007 c696-0010/2008 2005/0202 ((cns)) (a6-022/2008).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mrs lefrançois and mrs roure have done a great deal of work on both reports and i have had the pleasure of working with them during this period. we have achieved a great deal and we have moved a great deal. i regret that the report by martine roure is still pending in the council, even though we have revised it. i am a little bit disappointed by what mr jouyet said, namely that we take up issues and make them a priority. we have heard this many times recently from the german presidency. it has not been translated into action. in the long run, parliament cannot be satisfied with mere lip service. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it implies that we have here one of the rare cases where we harmonize substantive criminal law clearly outside the environmental field. this is something which goes far beyond what the european union has done so far. in civil law, we know it when it comes to cross-border points. but the fact that we are harmonizing substantive criminal law goes much further into the details of the matter than has been discussed here. the commission therefore understands why we are so intensely discussing public solicitation or incitement. incitement is a common term in the courts of all member states. the term 'invitation' was found by the member states of the council of europe in a compromise. there are countries like russia. i do not think we need to debate whether we all have a common legal basis for this. i have also made it clear in my talks with mrs lefrançois that, from my national perspective alone, i have a problem with the concept of incitement as it is formulated here, because it is foreign to our system that incitement can be punished without there being a deliberate, unlawful act. the paragraph provides for incitement or provocation, in so far as these two terms are, in the worst case, even pure mirror-fighting. both terms lack the intent of the perpetrator. it's up to the third party whether or not he perceives that what someone said could be a call to commit a serious terrorist offence. at this point, i'm wondering where you draw the line between the terrorist and the angry citizen at the table who's being denounced by his neighbor. we must therefore also act within the legal systems in force. i know that in spain it is different, but it is to combat national terrorism. believe me, i'm young enough, thank god, not to have experienced the bad times in germany during the raf phase. but there too, legislation has been discussed. of course, in special cases, states must also take special action, but we have also seen over the last seven years that much of what was initially decided in hyperactivity now has to be taken back. i am therefore pleased that we have placed an emphasis on human rights and fundamental rights in this report, which is cross-party. it is much more important that the council should act on the martine roure report. we have to be very clear about the treaty of lisbon. we all want him to stand until the 2009 european elections, but we also know what children who want something get! we must now try to integrate this report into these discussions, particularly in the light of the discussions currently being held by the commission with the us on an eu/us data protection agreement. it is not possible that both exist separately from each other. i therefore hope that not only the political will but also the political decision will be made so that the framework decision on data protection can finally come into force. the commission and the council are working very hard to take action in the field of the economic protection of personal data. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data subject is able to access the data in his or her possession. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in case of doubt, he can choose another company.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, mr minister, mr vice-president of the commission! i should like to make a few comments on the report by mrs roure, because of the limited time i have. when we talk about the processing of personal data in the context of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, i want to make it very clear that i believe we need uniform european regulations. in recent years, several projects have been launched to process such data, in particular the second generation schengen information system or the visa information system (vis). the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of personal data in the event of a breach of the rights of the data subject. a high level of data protection is in the interest of all citizens and i believe that this can only be ensured by uniform rules at eu level. the council's decision was the best solution that could be found, minister jouyet said. i must say to you, mr minister, that i am disappointed by the council's renewed proposal, because it does not take account of the parliament's key demands and i think it offers a level of data protection that is still partly below that of convention 108 of the council of europe. the criticism of the proposal is shared by all the groups across the group boundaries, and i think that this clear message should give the council pause for thought. in particular, it is necessary to ensure that the framework decision also applies to national data processing; the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i would also like to stress what our rapporteur, martine roure, has said, namely that particularly sensitive categories of data, i.e. data which reveal a person's ethnic origin, political opinion or religious convictions, must not be processed. if exceptions to this principle are to be allowed, it is essential that prior authorisation be obtained from a competent judicial authority, for example, and this category of data must not simply be processed automatically. the council has long promised parliament that it would adopt this framework decision. i think it is high time that the council finally did so, with a framework decision that is worth the paper it is written on. i agree with all the amendments which parliament will propose in the report because i think we need the highest possible level of data protection and this is not yet guaranteed by the present council framework decision.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to speak at this stage because, unfortunately, i must then take part in an interinstitutional dialogue and i apologize to your assembly and to the rapporteurs. i would like to reply to the leaders of the groups, however, to say first of all, on the report by mrs lefrançois and following the speeches - particularly on the debate on the distinction between 'incitement' and 'provocation' - that the council text takes up article 5 of the council of europe convention to avoid divergent application. we believe that we must trust the judges to apply this charge reasonably and, as mr de grandes pascual has very well said, take due account of the context, particularly with regard to spanish terrorism. finally, i would like to emphasize that the council text has taken into account, on the one hand, the freedom of expression clause in article 2 and, on the other hand, the proportionality clause in article 14. as regards the report by mrs martine roure, i would like to say that i also agree with mrs buitenweg and mr alvaro that it is a step forward to have a third pillar regulation which gives the right to compensation. i have also heard all your requests concerning the scope of the directive, including that of mrs kaufmann. france agreed with the commission, but we must be realistic: we cannot adopt another text unanimously. we would have liked to go further - this was also stated by the vice-president of the commission, jacques barrot - but if the scope were extended - which would be a very good thing indeed - i do not think we would have made that progress in the short term. there is a compromise to be made, a balance to be struck. i agree with martine roure that this is not entirely satisfactory, but it is progress nonetheless and we must take it as it is. in addition, as i said, we also have the appointment clause and i invite the commission, the vice-president - and i know he will do this - to make the best use of this appointment clause, as well as the provisions on data collection which also involve looking at national sovereignty files. you did mention the inclusion of some of the data in this decision. i personally also want to see the inclusion of religious data, sexual data, and at the very least, that this is more regulated than it is now. in reply to mr dillen on the roma, as is well known, the roma summit on 16 september last showed the commitment of the french presidency and the commission to the roma issue. the vice-president was there and we took stock of past measures and what member states can do in the future to promote the integration of roma in our societies, which is also very much on the agenda of commissioner špidla's social agenda. that is what i wanted to say in response to the speeches made in this very exciting debate.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to commend the french presidency for discussing these issues together, because they show the balance of the challenge: on the one hand, the fight against a major challenge - terrorism - and on the other, data protection. it's a pity the chairman of the council can't be here all the time. that would be very valuable to this debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to express on behalf of the epp group that our rapporteur, martine roure, has the full support of the whole parliament on this issue, because we need progress here. three points are particularly important to us. i would like to emphasize that the 'yes' to data exchange must be emphasized again and again. we know from the schengen information system that by sharing data we can track down many criminals, that sharing data ensures success and also guarantees security. but there are other points that are important: the right to information for citizens is particularly important to me strengthening citizens' rights and the scope of this right has been discussed on several occasions. the vice-president has indicated that it is important for him to have this backstop, particularly in the negotiations with the united states. but i would like to add: if the americans object to us that this legal framework unfortunately only applies to european issues, but not to the situation in the member states in an intra-european context, then they will have an argument against us because we do not dare to implement this legal framework in full in the european union. the council has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. we all remember that it took over a year to appoint the new eu counter-terrorism coordinator, mr de kerchove, that we acted quickly on data retention but unfortunately there was a delay in implementation, and that we still do not have a task force at europol, a separate department for this area. we must work and fight more actively and we must not only argue over formulae but we must move forward operationally. we are seeing the biggest problems with converts, especially with islamist terrorism, people who grow up in our society, grow up and then convert to islam. so we have to ask ourselves, what's wrong with our societies and what's wrong with the islamic environment that these people are becoming radical? we have to consider that. we are able to live safely in europe because we have a dedicated police force, which we should thank for this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we can have this debate on principles - we must have it - but not without talking about a specific instrument. i'm talking about the so-called terrorist list. we know from the judgment of the european court of justice of 3 september that the legal assessment is perfectly clear. the eu and un terrorism lists system violates fundamental civil rights and therefore needs to be reformed. what happened? what happened? this european union list of terrorists operates in an absolute gray area without any parliamentary control. it is quite bizarre to hear in this parliament that on 15 july, at a meeting of the council of agriculture ministers - i say the agriculture minister, the politicians responsible for forestry, meadows and agriculture - a new eu terrorist list was adopted without debate, without anyone knowing what was on it. we know that there are foreign policy implications because international law is being trampled on in a very gray area. we want to change that, and i'm asking for your support. thank you, thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. there is no doubt that we must continue to fight terrorism with all our resolve. i therefore welcome the fact that we are continuing to develop the necessary instruments and adapting them to the lessons learned. but one thing must be clear: we can only win this battle on the basis of the rule of law. without law and morality, terrorism is only strengthened, not weakened. we have seen this clearly in the bush administration's approach. europe has a role model here. the security and freedom of the public are always linked to the freedom of the individual. look at the basque country, for example. people live in fear, and walking down the street or going to the wrong bar can be deadly. it is our duty to protect our citizens from such threats. this may involve restrictions on other personal freedoms. but our citizens must be able to trust that these restrictions are also appropriate and that their data is not being shared among intelligence agencies around the world. in short, i don't want our citizens to wake up one day and realize that orwell's vision is no longer a utopia. that's what this is all about, ensuring the safety of life and limb without compromising privacy. i should like to take this opportunity to thank my two colleagues for the two excellent reports they have presented. because they both make it clear: we are asking the council to make greater efforts to protect fundamental rights, to exercise greater care and to provide better protection for the handling of personal data. we will fully support the council in all meaningful and appropriate measures to combat terrorism. we social democrats will always stand up for the fact that every citizen can feel safe, whether on the street, at large events or in his home. freedom is too great a good to be destroyed by any side! we know this well enough from our own painful history in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the previous speaker has made a wrong connection here. what happened in cologne was not the banning of anti-fundamentalist or democratic speeches, but the threatened endangerment of citizens. these were right-wing radicals who were out there, who were publicly behaving in a way that endangered public safety. this is something else and cannot be mixed up, not even in a little show effect here in parliament. that is very irritating to me! secondly, the fact that we have agreed here in parliament to take action against terrorism is wise, correct and absolutely necessary. as this is always a difficult balancing act with data protection, every single decision is extremely difficult for everyone in this parliament. but it is true that when something like the marriott hotel in islamabad or spain happens, when we are constantly confronted with such violence, and we all know that what these murderers are preparing is prepared through modern information channels and that it is then processed by modern information and communication technologies, we have no other choice. the commission's proposal was right that we should try to arrange meetings here at european level. it is a difficult journey and it will remain so. but our first and foremost duty is to protect human life. what good is privacy, to put it bluntly, if people are dead afterwards? it is therefore right that we should also take modern information technologies into account in this area of recruitment, financing, carrying out and glorifying attacks, and that we should agree on how we are going to deal with them at european level, supplementing national rules with european agreements and arrangements. this is our imperative duty. it's about getting involved. it is also a positive sign for europe that we are able to solve such important questions, even if they are not so easy to decide in individual cases.
i have to say, madam president, the rasmussen report is entitled 'hedge funds and private equity'. the report, if we look at its content, has almost nothing to do with hedge funds and private equity, and rightly now it refers to all financial institutions and all financial actors. this is important. we have proposed a list of items for the regulation and elimination of chaos in the financial markets. i am glad that mr rasmussen has essentially taken our position in the negotiations with us.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow you will be voting on the third maritime security package. as you know, with some 3 million people, the maritime economy is a vital economic sector for our european union. the legislative proposals comprising the package, which the commission submitted in early 2006, were seven. the aim was to implement preventive measures to prevent marine accidents and to establish measures to be taken following accidents, i.e. to analyse their causes and to compensate any victims. the package gives priority to the safety and quality of maritime transport while respecting the environment, and to improving the competitiveness of the european maritime sector. the council, parliament and the commission share the objective of promoting maritime safety. at the copenhagen european council in 2002, the council welcomed the efforts made to strengthen maritime safety and reiterated the european union's determination to 'take all necessary measures to prevent the recurrence of maritime disasters'. the council can moreover fully endorse many of the demands made by parliament in its resolution of 27 april 2004. however, on the third maritime package, some differences remain and will require further consultation between the parties. since the commission presented the package, the council, through the work of several presidencies, most recently the slovenian presidency, has adopted six common positions on the following proposals: post-accident investigations, classification societies, port state control, traffic monitoring and the athens convention, taking into account the opinions of the european parliament as adopted in april last year. from the beginning of its mandate, the french presidency has made a major effort to reach agreement with parliament on these six texts at second reading, the common positions of which were transmitted by the council in june 2008. during informal contacts with the rapporteurs during the last summer months, at the level of the coreper president, real progress was made on each dossier with a view to reaching a rapid agreement on these texts. in a recent letter, mr president costa, you described these advances as 'substantial progress'. as you know, and in accordance with the commitments i made last april, the presidency has vigorously and warmly revived the discussion in the council on the last two texts, on 'civil liability' and 'flag states'. this stimulus was very much needed for maritime safety and also, commissioner, was in response to the constant request of your commission. you know that this point was put on the agenda by the presidency at the informal meeting in la rochelle, to which i invited the representatives of the european parliament, mr costa and mr savary, who honoured us with their presence. as you know, we are currently working on a technical plan to enable the transport council to deal with it at its next meeting, scheduled for 9 october. i am quite frank with you: in view of the dynamic which has been set in motion, i would have preferred to avoid going to conciliation. however, we are here and it is now essential not to lose this momentum and above all not to give the impression that these advances and efforts have been made in vain, because that would be a very unfortunate signal to public opinion. the presidency will therefore remain available to continue informal contacts with each rapporteur on the first six texts in order to reach agreements on the substance, in parallel with the work in the council on the last two texts. i wanted to share this analysis with you and i will inform the council of this at its meeting on 9 october, when we will be examining the last two texts. the council will decide on its position with a view to conciliation on the first six texts. i very much hope, mr president, that parliament, the council and the commission will find a way of working closely together on these matters. i think we are very close to a final agreement, and that final agreement is what we all want.
member of the commission. - thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and especially thank you for your colleague. after many years in parliament, it is a pleasure to be here in the chamber. how can we not share, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr bussereau, the concerns and objectives which have emerged since the beginning of the debate on this maritime package. our concern, the concern of the parliament representing the peoples of europe, is to give guarantees or to try to give guarantees to the citizens of europe, so that tragic events such as those which we have unfortunately had to witness a few kilometres from the european coast are not repeated. the commission has also been involved in the negotiations with the united states, and i am sure that the united states will be involved in the negotiations with the united states. it is certainly impossible to prevent accidents from happening, but we must do everything we can to prevent them, through legislation and political action. how did you do that? firstly, by making life more difficult for those unscrupulous operators, by introducing more stringent and systematic checks in all the ports of the european union and even more effective provisions for the reception of a ship in danger in a place of refuge, or finally by introducing stricter controls on the organisations empowered to inspect ships and issue safety certificates on behalf of the member states. the aim is to deal more adequately with the consequences of an accident, to obtain fair compensation for passengers or their families or for the maritime community, and to make the best use of the post-accident investigation. and that's one of the important things, to understand what happened to prevent it. it is these various subjects that you will have to deal with once the council has taken a decision on five of the seven proposals in the third maritime safety package. the transport council last april was not able, as we know, to take a decision on the proposals concerning the obligations of flag states and the civil liability of shipowners. the difficulties expressed by the member states, which also emerged during the informal council meeting in la rochelle, should not be underestimated. there is concern about a transfer of competence to the european union in matters covered by international conventions and the fear of an increase in the administrative burden of control. at the la rochelle council - president costa was present - we sought both the commission and the president himself, but also the french presidency, which i thank for the work it has done in concert with the commission to try to get the whole package adopted quickly, without giving up two legislative texts, which we all consider to be of great importance, as minister bussereau has stressed. i must thank you very much for your action, for your attempt to mediate, for your desire to involve parliament in a very delicate and very difficult legislative choice. i cannot say that i am satisfied with the situation as it stands today. there are two issues which are in danger of being pushed into the corner and which are of tremendous importance. the commission wants the whole package to be approved, we will work, we will insist that an agreement be reached. europe cannot afford not to give concrete answers to the citizens; we must have a goal that is simple but binding: i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. our concern must also be to ensure that victims of maritime accidents are compensated in a sufficient and uniform manner throughout the european union. in la rochelle we tried to set in motion a process leading to an agreement between parliament and the council. we are working with the french presidency to try to put forward texts which can be approved by the council and parliament at the same time. i also met yesterday with the minister of transport of the federal republic of germany and insisted that germany should also play its part and the attempt i am making with all the member states, in the meetings i have, is to try to make a step forward by supporting the mediation action that the french presidency, with the european commission, is trying to take. i fully understand that in the meantime parliament would like to introduce amendments to incorporate the substance of the two pending proposals into the texts at second reading. i will sign these amendments! as regards the dossiers under formal examination, i know that significant progress has been made towards a rapprochement of parliament's views with those of the council and although this progress has not been translated into compromise amendments, i am convinced that the follow-up of the procedure will be greatly facilitated by it. i shall of course have the opportunity to comment on these matters and the proposed amendments after hearing your speeches. i believe, however, that we still have a chance of reaching an agreement, needless to say that the negotiations are easy, the negotiations will be complicated, but i believe that there is still room to achieve an objective, perhaps even before the conciliation; we cannot give up until we have made every effort to achieve the objective of approving all the texts that make up the maritime safety package. you can count, ladies and gentlemen, on the active commitment of the european commission, of all the managers and officials in the cabinet and the directorate-general which i have the honour to lead, and of my own staff, to try to achieve an objective which represents a concrete response for all the citizens of the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am pleased to see the great similarities that have emerged in the debate so far. our french representative in the council, our friend, has said that he believes we can reach an agreement by the end of the year. yes, let's make the deal! i would also like to thank the vice-presidents for their support of the commission in the discussions between the rapporteurs and the french presidency. mr president, we must admit that you and your staff have already made great progress in the individual discussions on the six dossiers. we are on the right track, but - and i say this to support you in the face of your reluctant colleagues in the council of ministers - there is a package or there is no package. i therefore hope that you will make progress on the two remaining dossiers at the next transport council on 9 november. these are not files that are unimportant. i do not want to go into the details of the civil liability of ship owners, but i think it is particularly important as regards flag states. it is clear that, despite all the commitments made by the member states to ensure safety at sea, the safety of seafarers, the safety of passengers and the safety of coastal waters, they are reluctant to ratify and implement very specific commitments or even imo resolutions on the protection of the sea. if we want these flag state obligations to be written down, if we want to be able to parliament and the commission to press member states if necessary also in court to comply with their obligations under the imo convention for the protection of the seas and coastal inhabitants, then the member states are backing down. there are some - there are some good ones who are fulfilling their flag state obligations - who are very reluctant to submit to parliament and commission scrutiny of their flag state obligations. and that's not going to happen! we have had the serious accidents of prestige and erika, and my colleagues have also pointed out the recent accidents. we have a duty to man and nature to ensure that the flag states themselves fulfil their obligations. this is so weird! in the excellent report by mrs vlasto we are talking about port state control. this is basically our way of checking the safety of third-country vessels anchored in our ports. we are therefore monitoring third country vessels, but the member states are afraid to submit to the obligation to check whether they are fulfilling their obligations as flag states in relation to the safety of vessels. you can't do that! i would therefore encourage the minister to actually bring the majority over on 9 october. i say majority because, if i am not mistaken, it may be that majority decisions are possible in the transport dossier. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i appeal to you to continue. we're proud of you. you've been fighting hard in the council. please also take the following message to the council: we are behind you and we are ready to achieve good results with the french presidency. but some have to move - including the german government. so let us all fight together!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. the disasters associated with the names estonia, erika and prestige have shaken europe. the eu must therefore improve maritime safety efficiently, quickly and credibly. in the past, many seafarers and passengers have lost their lives because safety rules and measures were not adequate. in addition, such accidents have caused severe environmental disasters on the atlantic, mediterranean and black sea coasts. the environmental damage was enormous, and the taxpayers, not the polluters, had to bear the cost. the european union's initiative to adopt the necessary european-wide and cross-border binding legislation must not be delayed by national interests. the council should bear this in mind in the negotiations now under way. the council's refusal to entrust the investigation of shipwrecks to independent authorities with full competence is in fact completely incomprehensible. what is the rule in airplane accidents must not be impossible in ship accidents. the green group welcomes all seven commission proposals and therefore we agree with the recommendations of the rapporteurs on the five common positions, including the separate and separate votes on the recommendations of the costa report on inland waterway transport. this is also true of the sterckx report on the ports of refuge. we are very concerned about the concrete measures such as safe havens, transparency and accountability. it is essential for maritime safety that we preserve the maritime package as a whole. we call on the council of transport ministers to adopt a common position quickly in the coming weeks on the two open issues of 'liability of shipowners' and 'obligations of port states' so that the package can finally be decided as a whole. the fact that it is precisely those member states which, by referring to international imo rules, want to prevent european agreements which they themselves have not yet transposed into national law is a piece of madness. the european union must make a decision before the next shipwreck shocks europe.
president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on saturday 14 september, almost yesterday, a french tuna boat was being chased by pirates 420 miles off the coast of somalia. this is not an isolated case, since since the beginning of july, 10 ships have been detained and 250 sailors taken hostage. as a result, fishing vessels are understandably reluctant to operate and the 50 french and spanish tuna vessels fishing off the coast of the seychelles and somalia have decided to join the seychelles. in addition to the fact that acts of piracy are on the increase, it is clear that they are no longer limited to the coast and that they tend to spread over larger sea areas, in international maritime areas, seriously disrupting not only the activity of fishing and commercial vessels in transit, but also - and this is very serious - that of vessels acting in the framework of humanitarian programmes, in particular the world food programme, which provides vital assistance to the very large displaced somali populations. this phenomenon has become a matter of concern on a global scale. our president of the republic, mr sarkozy, recently said that these are no longer isolated cases but a real crime industry which is calling into question one of the fundamental freedoms, that of movement, as well as that of international trade. the french president concluded by saying: 'the world cannot accept this!' in this context, the united nations security council adopted resolutions 1814 and 1816 last may and june. in response to the worsening of this phenomenon, it is currently working on a new resolution which aims to mobilise the international community to better apply existing instruments of repression and prevention, within the framework of the law of the sea or within the framework of security council resolutions. the member states of the european union have already taken this step and on 26 may expressed their determination to fight together against piracy off the coast of somalia. a crisis management concept was approved by the council on 5 august. more recently, at the general affairs and external relations council on 15 september, the council adopted a strategic military option for a possible military naval operation under the european security and defence policy. i would like to remind you solemnly that the launching of a naval operation is clearly envisaged, as the french presidency reminded the foreign affairs committee of your assembly last tuesday, at the end of the council meeting mentioned above. but in anticipation of a possible operation, and in view of the urgency of the need to act, the council decided to take the first step by setting up a military coordination unit. it is headed by a senior spanish officer and composed of four maritime experts whose role is to facilitate the exchange of information between merchant navies and warships that may be present in the area, on a regular or occasional basis. this unit, located here in brussels, will be responsible for supporting surveillance and protection actions carried out by member states off the coast of somalia. this initiative should have three components: the escorting of certain vulnerable vessels in transit in the gulf of aden, the protection of humanitarian convoys of the world food programme to somalia, and the monitoring of fishing areas off the southern coast of somalia. member states with naval units operating off the somali coast are therefore invited to inform the security council of this fact, in particular to optimise the possibilities of protecting the most vulnerable merchant ships. in parallel, madam president, the european union will continue to prepare for a possible naval military operation under the european security and defence policy. an information gathering mission, composed of european experts from the eu general staff and the general secretariat of the council, is currently in the region to refine strategic planning. the commission is due to report on its conclusions on 29 september. as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is not only showing its determination to act, but is also establishing itself as a major force in the international fight against piracy. we must give ourselves the means to act quickly and in a coordinated manner, in the interests of commercial interests, of course, but also in the interests of free movement, which is a global principle, and in the interests of our humanitarian objectives.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the commission strongly condemns the criminal acts regularly committed in certain regions of the world against the interests of the member states of the european union, whether acts of maritime piracy or armed attacks against ships in waters under the jurisdiction of a state. such acts affect not only maritime transport but also deep sea fishing and maritime tourism. in addition, these acts make the living conditions of seafarers who already work in difficult conditions even more dangerous. that is why we must not only condemn, we must act, we must realize that there is a risk of going back centuries with an organized presence of criminal networks, of pirates operating in four main areas: the south china sea, the straits of malacca and singapore, the gulf of guinea and the horn of africa. most of the acts are committed in these areas, the intensity and severity of the actions vary continuously. in addition, there is concern about the development and possible spread of piracy to other parts of the world, which shows that these are not occasional incidents, but we are convinced that there is an organized network of criminals who want to scientifically attack cargo, cruise ships and passenger ships. as the european community is a party to the 1982 united nations convention on the law of the sea, the european commission has always been committed to promoting freedom of navigation in all its components and to developing appropriate instruments to prevent illegal acts against ships. in this context, the commission has systematically supported the efforts of the member states and the international community as a whole to develop high-quality legislative instruments within the united nations and its specialized body in the field of maritime transport, the international maritime organization. following the work of the informal consultative process of the united nations on the oceans and the law of the sea in june last year, which dealt in particular with the question of the legal treatment of pirates in the event of capture, efforts are still continuing with the ongoing review of three imo legal instruments on the prevention of piracy and armed attacks against ships. the review is expected to be completed in december 2008. the european community, with its legislation on the safety of ships and port facilities, which incorporates the isps code, an instrument of the imo, into community law, is promoting these standards of maritime safety among its international partners, primarily the euro-mediterranean partners, through the safemed 2 programme. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the relevant provisions of the cotonou agreement and will continue to monitor the implementation of the relevant provisions of the cotonou agreement. cooperation with non-european countries is therefore of particular importance. similarly, the commission services are studying the possibility of using the stability instrument to support existing or developing regional initiatives supported by the international maritime organisation, both in the strait of malacca area and in the horn of africa area, to promote maritime safety in those areas which are strategic for european interests and supplies. it is also worth noting the continuing development aid granted by the european community to countries in these areas at risk, in order to raise their standard of living, which is a prerequisite for respecting the rule of law, and also to try to take away the manpower of criminal organizations, which can take advantage of the conditions of extreme poverty of certain populations. as regards the suppression of acts of maritime piracy and armed attacks against ships, the commission welcomes the adoption of un security council resolution 1816 on the suppression of acts of piracy and armed attacks off the coast of somalia, but also, of course, the important step taken by the council of the european union, which adopted a detailed line of action at its meeting on 15 september 2008. president bussereau has outlined the initiatives and the commitment of the european union and the member states, a commitment which we share and support. there's another question that's being asked about this steady growth, this increase in piracy actions: is piracy used to finance international terrorism? it is a question we must ask ourselves, and we must try to answer it, even though there is no evidence today that terrorism is financed by ransom payments, but there is nothing to establish a priori that this is not possible. so, to dismiss this hypothesis, particularly in the light of the obvious links between some countries that are havens for pirates and the existence of hidden bases for terrorist groups, gives us cause for doubt. the commission will, however, launch a study in this respect, in order to better understand the financial flows associated with the phenomenon of piracy on the seas. we must never let down our guard in the fight against terrorism and therefore every suspicion, even if we cannot make any preliminary judgments, must be carefully evaluated and we must take all appropriate action to prevent terrorism from possibly benefiting from the help and organizational and economic support of criminal organizations. that is why we will continue to work in concert with all the member states, with the council and also with the non-european countries which are particularly committed to the fight against piracy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. mr president, i fully agree with what you have said. we have to distinguish between the straits, where we have responsible states that we can cooperate with to fight piracy, and the maritime operations, where we don't have a responsible state, like in somalia. we have to do something about it. mr. minister, what you said, to be honest, didn't make a lot of sense to me. it is always good to set up and use a crisis team, but it does not help. the crisis team is here in brussels or somewhere. what we need is a concerted maritime operation on the ground with the eu states' ships already there. we must appeal to those member states which do not yet have ships there to join a joint naval operation. it is not acceptable that two pirate motherships are happily sailing through the waters there, that these motherships are attacking our fishing vessels and merchant vessels and that we have to run after them and see how we can deal with it. we need a clear - and i am waiting for my general to speak - strategic and tactical assessment of the situation, and we need enough forces to be able to control piracy. because appeals are useless! we have to hunt down the pirates, we have to stop them, otherwise we can't. ninety percent of the imports from europe on which we depend come by sea. we have a great responsibility to the seafarers, to the fishermen who fish off foreign coasts, under mutually agreed contracts, and we must protect these fishermen and seafarers and tourists. unfortunately, in areas where there is no state authority, we can only do this by developing our own european activities on the basis of un resolutions. in this respect, mr minister, the setting up of a crisis team is a good thing, but we expect a clear base of operations and clear operations in the next stage.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the protection of seafarers is a matter which is close to the heart of all of us, but i would like to ask how we can best ensure that this is the case. i cannot expressly agree with the french presidency's praise, because it was a political and technical failure. nothing but a mess! i'll tell you why. we have had this debate in the context of the green paper on the sea. we have indicated that this is a problem and that we need a long-term strategy to be able to fight piracy. i also take the liberty of pointing out that this phenomenon of piracy has been around since the sixth century bc. and now sarkozy comes along, throwing everything over the table and talking about naval operations. young as german minister of defence, he is already polishing the guns on the naval ships, and we have an esdp mission which is not even discussed in the relevant committees - in afet and the subcommittee on defence - but in the transport committee. what kind of craft is that? this is not a craft at all! i have the impression that they are trying to react in a frantic, ad hoc way to legitimize something that will have very, very long-term international implications. if we're going to use the navy to protect sailors, we need to talk about the consequences. what do we want? gunboat policy? do we want the shot before the bow? are we going to sink ships? and if it is indeed related to international terrorism, where is the long-term strategy? i'm just saying this as a warning. we shall analyse this very carefully and then, in the second week of october, hopefully come to a conclusion that is somewhat more objective and then also more helpful to the people of the region.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have here the commissioner for transport and the french president-in-office of the council responsible for transport. but this is a very specific military operation. there was very late information to the committee responsible, to the subcommittee on security and defence, although press reports about this eu anti-piracy mission have been circulating since august. you can't do that! we need to get some basic information in time and then we can make a serious decision. according to bbc information, france wanted a global general mandate, not just for somalia, and fortunately it was not able to prevail. the first is a restriction of maritime sovereignty and, in particular, a breach of international law. we should be very clear about that. it is a matter of direct support for the so-called government in somalia, which is backed by ethiopia and the united states. there is direct cooperation with operation enduring freedom, which is not possible, and the funding is to be provided through athena. we have no information on this either. we should be informed immediately. what we are talking about here is military control of access to raw materials, and that is not possible in this form. what we need is a different approach to this militarization.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very pleased that we have the opportunity today to discuss the international tropical timber agreement. in view of the need to combat climate change, to conserve biodiversity and to protect the rights of indigenous peoples, the protection and sustainable management of tropical forests is becoming increasingly important. accordingly, there is broad support in the committee on international trade for the concept of an international convention. however, as our rapporteur, caroline lucas, has already said - and i would like to thank her very warmly for her wonderful report - there are some doubts whether this agreement will be sufficient to tackle the problem of deforestation seriously. 13 million hectares of tropical forests are cut down every year, and an estimated 20% of greenhouse gas emissions are due to this. the fact that almost a full year has passed since the text was referred to parliament and the agreement is now being discussed in the plenary is not due to the fact that the trade committee wanted to delay this debate or did not give the question the importance it deserved. this is because we believe, and the legal affairs committee in particular, that this agreement requires parliament's consent and not just a consultative procedure. i should like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mrs maria panayotopoulos-cassiotou, and the chairman of the legal affairs committee, mr giuseppe gargani, for their clear and prompt legal advice on the legal basis. in january, in the light of the opinion of the legal affairs committee, president pöttering wrote to the secretary-general of the council, explaining that in our view this agreement creates a special institutional framework and therefore requires parliament's consent in accordance with the second subparagraph of article 300 (3) of the ec treaty. unfortunately, it took until 23 may 2008 for the council to reply to this letter. the answer - four full paragraphs - contained no legal arguments or any other reason for rejecting parliament's request. in this context, the committee on trade adopted the report by caroline lucas, this oral question and the related resolution which we are debating here. i would therefore like to emphasize not only the importance of the agreement itself and the fight against climate change, but also the question of the rights and privileges of parliament. the existing treaties give parliament very little legislative power in the field of international trade agreements, with the exception of those treaties which fall within the scope of the second subparagraph of article 300 (3). the establishment of such a specific institutional framework is the most frequent basis for the application of this provision in the treaty and also provides the justification for the application of the assent procedure to the conclusion of the economic partnership agreements between the eu and the acp states, and of possible agreements with korea or india and with south-east asia, which is of particular importance for the fight against deforestation. why is the application of the consent procedure so important to us? the aim is to provide a parliamentary forum for debate and control on behalf of the european citizens, thereby giving the agreements greater legitimacy and public recognition. it is therefore in the interests of the council and the commission to involve parliament as a co-legislator. in view of the public interest in the conservation of biodiversity and the fight against climate change, i hope that the commission will at least now comply with our request to submit annual reports on the implementation of the tropical timber convention and its interaction with bilateral agreements.
it is with great sadness that we have learned of the tragic incident in kauhajoki, in western finland, where 11 people were killed in a school in a very tragic way. several people were seriously injured by the assassin who then killed himself. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express my deepest sympathy and solidarity with the families and all the relatives of the victims. all the victims were innocent young students in a vocational school for the service sector. this tragedy comes less than a year after a similarly horrific massacre at jokela high school. finland, as we all know, is considered to be a peaceful country and one of the safest in europe. i therefore understand that the people of finland are speechless in shock, and i share their horror. although such bloodshed unfortunately often follows similar patterns, this time too, despite the announcement of the massacre on the internet, it was not possible to prevent the tragedy in time. it is our duty as responsible politicians in europe and in all the member states to do our utmost to ensure that such bloodshed is detected and prevented in good time. i would like to express once again, on behalf of the european parliament, our deepest sympathy and solidarity with the victims and their families.
the next item is the debate on the european parliament's priorities for the commission's legislative and work programme for 2009.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. we are discussing this morning the commission's legislative and work programme for the coming year - an election year. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the proposals contained in the white paper. we are all at your disposal, even the commissioners, even the president of the commission, who unfortunately cannot be here this morning to present his programme in person. in an election year we are always tempted to please all the voters, provided we know what the voters want, or at least what they should want. so how should the european union deal with its fellow europeans next year? like all politicians, we have a duty to find answers to people's concerns. the european union also has an excellent opportunity to do so. we have ways of responding to people's concerns and needs. the european union has been a guarantor of peace in europe for decades - a basic concern throughout human history. we can find answers to external threats such as international terrorism or to the behaviour of large neighbouring states which occasionally flout the rules of international law. we can help ensure that europe has a sustainable and secure energy supply, and at the same time we can do what we can to protect the climate. we can ensure social security in europe and justice by unlocking the growth potential of our prosperous economy, by fostering innovation, by ensuring the competitiveness of the european economy and thereby providing the opportunity to create and safeguard jobs. europe can become a haven of security in a changing world. the commission has already made a number of proposals. what are the conditions for successful action in the european union? i 'll name two . firstly, we need the appropriate institutional foundations, that is to say, we need the treaty of lisbon. it creates more transparency, more democracy, more capacity for action and thus puts the european union in a better position to meet its responsibilities. we can only appeal to the irish people to reconsider this treaty. i share many of the criticisms of the european union. but it is clear that this treaty is the answer to many of the criticisms made in the european union. that's why we need the contract. secondly, we need the support of the citizens of europe, which we have lost to a frightening extent. this has been demonstrated in the referendums in france, the netherlands and, not least, ireland. it is not a question of whether we need more or less europe, as i had the opportunity to say to the president of the commission recently. the question is where we need europe and where we do not. this has to be decided! if i may give an example - i admit it is my own example - soil protection is not what we need in europe. soil protection does work, but it does not create work, or jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore believe that the commission is well advised to attach more importance to the question of the subsidiarity of its action in the coming year than it has done so far. then europe will be accepted, and we will all probably be re-elected by more citizens than in the last election.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. next year is indeed a very important year for the european union, because 2009 will be the year of the european parliament elections, and the big question will be how this european union will go on. we know that the elections will take place, but we do not yet know exactly on what basis we will then work together. this is something which the citizens rightly expect to be answered. how do we envisage the future of europe from the perspective of the european institutions? the commission's legislative and work programme is, of course, one way of giving a comprehensive answer to this. that is why we as a parliament have decided to formulate our demands on the commission's work programme before it is presented to us and we can then react to it. the european union is faced on the one hand with these major challenges which concern it. what's next? on the other hand, there are so many things happening in the world that actually affect citizens in their daily lives, such as rising energy prices and the crisis in the financial markets. the european union must be clear about how it intends to respond. it takes conviction and leadership. it is therefore important that the european commission formulates very clearly how it wants to respond to these crises and presents this in the work programme, where the political priorities are clearly set out. we believe that the commission should focus on the competitiveness of the european union. it is important that we continue to make this a political priority, especially in a stronger global market. equally important are strengthening and preserving citizens' rights, expanding research and responding to climate change. these are other concerns which have been of great importance to parliament for many years. the commission should define these areas and, above all, ensure that europe can then claim any successes it might have. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is something i would like the commission to look at, perhaps. in this respect, madam vice-president, i am very pleased that you are here today - and that commission president barroso, as perhaps also one or two of my colleagues in this parliament, had something else on the agenda, but we must accept that for now - because you are the one who is driving communication in the european union, and perhaps it would be a possibility that what we are debating here, namely the commission's work programme, is also discussed thoroughly in the national parliaments, so that we have this kind of interaction from the outset. in the german bundestag this is now done in most committees, but it is certainly something that belongs to the plenary of national parliaments throughout europe. it is europe's hour. it's actually pretty obvious. we have global challenges. europe can only respond to this together.
mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the scepticism of the citizens today towards the european union is very strong and has a reason, namely the policy that has been formulated in recent years and the way it has been handled. this is why it is very important that the european commission and the other institutions of the european union bring policy much closer to the people's life-style, and also give them the impression and show that european policy is doing something for the citizens. it is also important that we examine more closely what we should do, for example in the area of analysis of what is needed. for example, a consumer scoreboard is a very important tool which needs to be further developed so that we can take greater account of the concerns of citizens in this area. the second important thing in this context is that we should analyse better the impact of our legislation in the european union. it is not enough to have estimates of the economic consequences. we also need to have a clear impact assessment in the social field, so that we know what the impact is, what decisions we take, what laws we make, so that we can really show the citizens what we can and want to do for them, and we also know what we are doing in this area. it is also important to give citizens common rights throughout the european union. i therefore urge you to continue to work towards the further development of class actions and collective legal claims. this would be a very important signal to the citizens.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore want to concentrate on as few points as possible which are potentially acceptable. i think we can agree on this together - you have already said this, madam vice-president - that the european union must respect the basic principle of the social market economy and take account of the interests of entrepreneurs and consumers alike. this is a difficult balancing act in individual cases, and it can of course be different depending on the political point of view. however, i believe - and i would like to echo what hartmut nassauer said - that the commission must develop a better sense of subsidiarity in the coming months. if we look at the proposals you have made for the procurement of environmentally friendly vehicles or what you want to propose in the work programme for the procurement of environmentally friendly vehicles in general, the idea becomes clear that the mayors, who are ordinary people, are not in a position to make environmentally friendly decisions themselves, but you from europe want to give them central guidelines. we think that's the wrong approach. we want individuals to understand that environmentally friendly sourcing is in their own interest. that is why we need more subsidiarity in these areas, more best practice and less directing. i would also like to encourage you, madam vice-president, to be a little more courageous in your negotiations with the member states in the future, for example, on how we can harmonize consumer protection law in the european union in the interests of both businesses and consumers. if we are to achieve this harmonization, it will only make sense if we really harmonize the whole field of consumer protection law and do not leave any room for member states to make changes at the margins, in the corners and in the places within this harmonized acquis. otherwise, it's all for nothing.
mr president, madam vice-president, i would like to thank you for your reply. with all the praise you've received from the house, i'd like to add a little water to the wine, as far as passenger rights are concerned. we call on the commission to present a comprehensive approach to passenger rights in the transport sector. fortunately, we already have air passenger rights, but they need to be revised urgently because some airlines are not applying the regulation as we would like. we have just decided this year on rail passenger rights; the commission has already made a number of proposals. but, commissioner, there were passenger charges for long distance bus services announced and there was discussion of passenger charges for ferry services. these two proposals are not there, and we believe that we need these proposals for a comprehensive approach to passenger rights. we agree with the commission that if we want to put the citizen first, the best way to make this clear to him is to give him passenger rights in the whole transport sector. the second point i would like to make is that we hope that the commission will implement the planned traffic management systems as planned. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the safety of the european rail system. with such traffic control systems, madam vice-president, we are not only making transport safer and cheaper, but we are also protecting the environment. we therefore fully support the rapid introduction of these european traffic management systems.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the budgetary control does not have any new subjects, we are satisfied with the old ones and would also be satisfied with progress on the old subjects. five points: first of all, we urgently request that romania and bulgaria be given support in the process of establishing the rule of law, the judiciary and financial control. we don't want to be where we are today in two years. that is why this point is very important to us. secondly, the declaration of assurance for the general budget, following the stepwise control procedure involving the national audit bodies. it would be nice if we could make some real progress on this in the last six months of the commission's existence, or at least agree on a common path. you're a budget controller, you're supposed to be modest. the third is simplification. we need to do more to help the lower levels of the member states' administrations to implement eu law. it turns out that they are completely overwhelmed by large parts of eu law. that's why the error rates are so high. fourthly, external aid. i would like to turn in particular to kosovo and cooperation with the united nations. the committee on budgetary control has been to kosovo and i would like to announce that kosovo will play a role in the discharge. i believe that we are far behind the european union's capabilities in this area and that we urgently need to improve. fifthly, to improve cooperation between member states in the fight against fraud. we have homework here especially for the ladies and gentlemen of the council. parliament will vote on the legal basis for the anti-fraud regulation in november and then we will have to think together about how to proceed if we want to achieve better results in this field. at least that's what we've been hoping for.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, and this is also important to stress, a partnership on equal footing involves addressing problems honestly. this is still not the case with india and is not reflected in this resolution. that is why we cannot accept this compromise. how can we - as it is formulated - present india as a model for dealing with religious and cultural pluralism when there have just been several deaths in connection with violent extremists against christians in orissa or muslims in kashmir? the gujarat pogroms have not yet been brought to justice. about 200 lawsuits are still stuck in the mills of justice. is there any real action against such acts of violence by radical groups, against massacres of christians or muslims? how equal are the dalits? are human rights a universal good? are children finally protected from work and exploitation? these are questions we should discuss openly with our indian partners. in the last five years, the indian human rights commission has recorded over 14,000 deaths in police and army custody. please, india, reform the armed forces special powers act! it is lawlessness that is leading to insurrectionary movements in many indian states. poverty is still oppressive, and even good programmes are not enough. much more needs to be done when 40 percent of the world's most malnourished children live in india. europe can do a lot to help india achieve sustainable development through knowledge and technology transfer.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i should like to explain briefly why my group will vote against the compromise resolution. the negotiations failed to formulate a critical position on the nuclear agreement between the americans and india. we consider this a failure of the european parliament, because we expect that we will have the courage to criticise the european silence during the negotiations in the nuclear suppliers group. it is cowardly if all the member states and especially the german presidency of the nsg are not in a position to defend the european security strategy at such a meeting. we have a compromise where one of the priorities is the fight against proliferation. but it is precisely this silence that has now broken the dam, the credibility of disarmament policy. nuclear disarmament is a mistake. strengthening the npt regime? you're wrong! credibility in the negotiations with iran? you're wrong! instead, it's france's economic interests, specifically to make a deal with nuclear technology and india. this is a position which we consider to be immanent, and that is why we reject the compromise.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eu-india summit is a new step in the deepening of relations between the european union and india. we want to promote economic development in india. but we are watching very closely what is happening in the regions of india in terms of humanity and human rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. these issues must also be addressed at the summit. the murder of a spiritual leader of the world hindutva on august 23 of this year has sparked a new conflict. it is not the first attack on christians, as there are now some 60,000 religious refugees in the state of orissa alone. christians are persecuted, humiliated, abused and murdered. houses, churches and monasteries in christian communities are being devastated and destroyed. the indian state must guarantee the right to life and liberty of the christian minorities living there. economic success and stability are only possible in the freedom of the people.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am speaking on amendment no 132. i am withdrawing amendment no 132 on behalf of the undersigned because unfortunately a compromise has not been reached in this house to strengthen copyright.
your holiness, the patriarch bartholomew! it is a great honour to welcome your holiness to this solemn meeting of the european year of intercultural dialogue 2008 here in the european parliament. the first guest of the year of dialogue between cultures was the grand mufti of damascus, who addressed the european parliament in january. he is from syria and he spoke to us as a representative of peaceful islam. you, your holiness, represent the christian faith, and with the chief rabbi jonathan sacks a representative of judaism will speak before the european parliament in strasbourg in november. for centuries, people of these three religions - christianity, judaism, and islam - have lived in close proximity, though not always peacefully. today, too, there are areas of tension between the various communities in the middle east and beyond. we, the european parliament, support all efforts to ensure that religions and cultures in the middle east and elsewhere in the world live together in peace. on the other hand, there are also examples of religious tolerance in the middle east, of harmonious relations between people of different religious beliefs. when i visited syria recently, i had the opportunity to meet the spiritual leaders of the various religious communities, and they assured me that there are good relations in this country for dialogue between religions and cultures. the european union is a community of values, and one of our fundamental values is the inherent dignity of every human being. in this respect, religious freedom is an essential aspect of human dignity and goes far beyond any powers that state authorities invoke. the separation of church and state, which we so cherish, is a guarantee of the freedom of religious communities to shape their own internal affairs and relations. the treaty of lisbon, which we are committed to bringing into force, confirms these principles. the ecumenical patriarchate of constantinople, based in phanar in istanbul, was founded in the 4th century and is an important spiritual center for 300 million orthodox christians worldwide. phanar is called the lighthouse, and you, holiness, have always been a shining example of reconciliation and peace to the faithful in the orthodox world and beyond. the recent enlargement of the european union has seen the addition of countries with orthodox majorities, such as cyprus, bulgaria and romania, and greece has been a member since 1981. the late pope john paul ii, speaking to the european parliament in 1988, put it metaphorically: 'europe breathes with both lungs after overcoming the division of europe.' we too could use this metaphor today to describe the richness of the enlarged union brought to us by the different perspectives of western and eastern christianity. your holiness, we thank you for your visit. you are one of the very few personalities who are speaking before the european parliament for the second time. you were here in 1994 and you are honouring us by speaking to us on the occasion of the european year of dialogue between cultures. we look forward to it. i would ask you to address the members of the european parliament. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
your excellency mr president of the european parliament, your excellencies, honourable members of the european parliament, distinguished guests, dear friends, first and foremost we convey to you salutations from the ecumenical patriarchate of constantinople, based for many, many centuries in what is today istanbul – greetings replete with esteem and respect. in particular, we express our gratitude to an old friend of ours, his excellency hans-gert pöttering, president of the european parliament. we likewise express our sincerest appreciation for the extraordinary honour to address the plenary sitting of the european parliament for the second time (as the president already mentioned), especially on this occasion that commemorates the european year of intercultural dialogue. as a purely spiritual institution, our ecumenical patriarchate embraces a truly global apostolate that strives to raise and broaden the consciousness of the human family – to bring understanding that we are all dwelling in the same house. at its most basic sense, this is the meaning of the word ‘ecumenical’ – for the ‘oikoumene’ is the inhabited world – the earth understood as a house in which all peoples, kindreds, tribes and languages dwell. as is well known, the origins of our religious institution lie at the core of the axial age, deep in the history of the christian faith – with the earliest followers of jesus christ. inasmuch as our see – our institutional centre – shared the centre and capital of the christian roman empire, it became known as ‘ecumenical’, with certain privileges and responsibilities that it holds to this day. one of its chief responsibilities was for bringing the redemptive message of the gospel to the world outside the roman empire. in the days before the exploratory age, most civilisations held such a bicameral view of the world as being ‘within’ and ‘without’. the world was divided into two sectors: a hemisphere of civilisation and a hemisphere of barbarism. in this history, we behold the grievous consequences of the alienation of human persons from one another. today, when we have the technological means to transcend the horizon of our own cultural self-awareness, we nevertheless continue to witness the terrible effects of human fragmentation. tribalism, fundamentalism, and phyletism – which is extreme nationalism without regard to the rights of the other – all these contribute to the ongoing list of atrocities that give pause to our claims of being civilised in the first place. and yet, even with tides of trade, migrations and expansions of peoples, religious upheavals and revivals, and great geopolitical movements, the deconstruction of rigid and monolithic self-understandings of past centuries has yet to find a permanent harbour. the ecumenical patriarchate has sailed across the waves of these centuries, navigating the storms and the doldrums of history. for twenty centuries – through the pax romana, the pax christiana, the pax islamica, the pax ottomanica (all epochs marked by intercultural struggle, conflict and outright war) – the ecumenical patriarchate has continued as a lighthouse for the human family and the christian church. it is from the depths of our experience upon these deep waters of history that we offer to the contemporary world a timeless message of perennial human value. today, the ecumenical scope of our patriarchate extends far beyond the boundaries of its physical presence at the cusp of europe and asia, in the same city we have inhabited for the seventeen centuries since her founding. though small in quantity, the extensive quality of our experience brings us before this august assembly today, in order to share from that experience on the necessity of intercultural dialogue, a lofty and timely ideal for the contemporary world. as you yourselves have said – in this most esteemed body’s own words: ‘at the heart of the european project, it is important to provide the means for intercultural dialogue and dialogue between citizens to strengthen respect for cultural diversity and deal with the complex reality in our societies and the coexistence of different cultural identities and beliefs’ (decision no 1983/2006/ec) and we would humbly append this noble statement, as we did last year in our address to the plenary of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, in strasbourg: ‘dialogue is necessary first and foremost because it is inherent in the nature of the human person’. this is the principal message that we propose for your consideration today: that intercultural dialogue is at the very root of what it means to be a human being, for no one culture of the human family encompasses every human person. without such dialogue, the differences in the human family are reduced to objectifications of the ‘other’ and lead to abuse, conflict, persecution – a grand-scale human suicide, for we are all ultimately one humanity. but where the differences between us move us to encounter one another, and where that encounter is based in dialogue, there is reciprocal understanding and appreciation – even love. in the past 50 years, our human family has experienced leaps of technological achievement undreamed of by our forebears. many have trusted that this kind of advancement will bridge the divides that fragment the human condition. as if our achievements had given us the power to overcome the fundamental realities of our moral and – may we say – our spiritual condition. yet, despite every conceivable benefit and technological skill – skill that seems to outstrip our anthropological wit – we still behold the universal banes of hunger, thirst, war, persecution, injustice, planned misery, intolerance, fanaticism and prejudice. amidst this cycle that cannot seem to be broken, the significance of the ‘european project’ cannot be underestimated. it is one of the hallmarks of the european union that has succeeded in promoting mutual, peaceful and productive co-existence between nation states that less than 70 years ago were drenched in a bloody conflict that could have destroyed the legacy of europe for the ages. here, in this great hall of assembly of the european parliament, you strive to make possible the relationships between states and political realities that make reconciliation between persons possible. thus you have recognised the importance of intercultural dialogue, especially at a time in the history of europe when transformations are taking place in every country and along every societal boundary. great tidal forces of conflict, and economic security and opportunity have shifted populations around the globe. of necessity, then, persons of differing cultural, ethnic, religious and national origin find themselves in close proximity. in some cases, the same populations shun the greater whole and close themselves off from the dominant society. but in either case, as we engage in dialogue, it must not be a mere academic exercise in mutual appreciation. for dialogue to be effective, to be transformative in bringing about core change in persons, it cannot be done on the basis of ‘subject’ and ‘object’. the value of the ‘other’ must be absolute – without objectification; so that each party is apprehended in the fullness of their being. for orthodox christians, the icon, or image, stands not only as an acme of human aesthetic accomplishment, but as a tangible reminder of the perennial truth. as in every painting – religious or not, and notwithstanding the talent of the artist – the object presents as two-dimensional. yet, for orthodox christians, an icon is no mere religious painting – and it is not, by definition, a religious object. indeed, it is a subject with which the viewer, the worshipper, enters into wordless dialogue through the sense of sight. for an orthodox christian, the encounter with the icon is an act of communion with the person represented in the icon. how much more should our encounters with living icons – persons made in the image and likeness of god – be acts of communion! in order for our dialogue to become more than mere cultural exchange, there must be a more profound understanding of the absolute interdependence – not merely of states and political and economic actors – but the interdependence of every single human person with every other single human person. and such a valuation must be made regardless of any commonality of race, religion, language, ethnicity, national origin, or any of the benchmarks by which we seek self-identification and self-identity. and in a world of billions of persons, how is such inter-connectedness possible? indeed, there is no possible way to link with every human person – this is a property that we would ascribe to the divine. however, there is a way of understanding the universe in which we live as being shared by all – a plane of existence that spans the reality of every human person – an ecosphere that contains us all. thus it is that the ecumenical patriarchate – in keeping with our own sense of responsibility for the house, the oikos of the world and all who dwell therein – has for decades championed the cause of the environment, calling attention to ecological crises around the globe. and we engage this ministry without regard to self-interest. as you know so well, our patriarchate is not a ‘national’ church, but rather the fundamental canonical expression of the ecumenical dimensions of the gospel message, and of its analogous responsibility within the life of the church. this is the deeper reason that the church fathers and the councils have given it the name ‘ecumenical’. the loving care of the church of constantinople exceeds any linguistic, cultural, ethnic and even religious definition, as she seeks to serve all peoples. although firmly rooted in particular history – as any other institution is – the ecumenical patriarchate transcends historical categories in her perennial mission of service during 1 700 years. in our service to the environment, we have, to date, sponsored seven scientific symposia that bring together a host of disciplines. the genesis of our initiative grew on the island that gave humanity the apocalypse, the book of revelation: the sacred island of patmos in the aegean sea. and it was in the aegean that we commenced, in 1995, an ambitious programme of integrating current scientific knowledge about the oceans with the spiritual approach of the world’s religions to water, particularly the world’s oceans. since patmos, since 1995, we have traversed the danube, the adriatic sea, the baltic sea, the amazon, the arctic sea (last september), and we are now making preparations to sail the nile in egypt and the mississippi river in the united states, both next year. what we seek is not only an ongoing dialogue that is serviceable to practical necessities, but also one that raises human consciousness. while we strive to find answers to ecological concerns and crises, we also bring the participants into a more comprehensive sense of themselves as belonging to and relating to a greater whole. we seek to embrace the ecosphere of human existence not as an object to be controlled, but as a fellow-struggler on the path of increase and improvement. as the apostle paul, whose 2 000-year legacy both the orthodox and the roman catholic churches are celebrating this year, says in one of his most famous epistles, the epistle to the romans, ‘for we know that until now, the whole of creation groans with us and shares our birth pangs’. every ecosystem on this planet is like a nation – by definition limited to a place. the estuary is not the tundra, nor is the savannah the desert. but like every culture, every ecosystem will have an effect that goes beyond far beyond its natural – or in the case of cultures, national – boundaries. and when we understand that every ecosystem is part of the singular ecosphere that is inhabited by every living breath that fills the world, then do we grasp the interconnectedness, the powerful communion of all life, and our true interdependency on one another. without such an understanding, we are led to ecocide, the self-destruction of the one ecosphere that sustains all human existence. thus it is that we come before you today, highlighting this year of intercultural dialogue, bringing parables from the natural world to affirm your transcendent human values. as an institution, the ecumenical patriarchate has lived as a relatively small ecosystem within a much larger culture for centuries. out of this long experience, allow us to suggest the most important practical characteristic that enables the work of intercultural dialogue to succeed. chiefly and above all, there must be respect for the rights of the minority within every majority. when and where the rights of the minority are observed, the society will for the most part be just and tolerant. in any culture, one segment will always be dominant – whether that dominance is based on race, religion or any other category. segmentation is inevitable in our diverse world. what we seek to end is fragmentation! societies that are built upon exclusion and repression cannot last. or, as the divine prince of peace jesus christ said: every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and every city or house divided against itself shall not stand. our counsel to all is to recognise that only when we embrace the fullness of shared presence within the ecosphere of human existence, are we then able to face the ‘otherness’ of those around us – majority or minority – with a true sense of the consanguinity of the human family. then do we behold the stranger amongst us not as an alien, but as a brother or sister in the human family, the family of god. st paul expounds on pan-human relation and brotherhood quite eloquently and concisely when addressing the athenians in the first century. this is why europe needs to bring turkey into its project and why turkey needs to foster intercultural dialogue and tolerance in order to be accepted into the european project. europe should not see any religion that is tolerant of others and respectful to the others as alien to itself. the great religions, like the european project, can be a force that transcends nationalism and can even transcend nihilism and fundamentalism by focusing their faithful on what unites us as human beings, and by fostering a dialogue about what divides us. from our country, turkey, we perceive both a welcome to a new economic and trading partner, but we also feel the hesitation that comes from embracing, as an equal, a country that is predominantly muslim. and yet europe is filled with millions of muslims who have come here from all sorts of backgrounds and causations; just as europe would still be filled with jews, had it not been for the horrors of the second world war. indeed, it is not only non-christians that europe must encounter, but christians who do not fit into the categories of catholic or protestant. the resurgence of the orthodox church in eastern europe since the fall of the iron curtain has truly been a marvel for the world to behold. the segmentation of eastern europe has led to fragmentation in many places. not only does the centre not hold; it is hardly discernible. through this process, as nation states strive to re-establish themselves, it is the orthodox christian faith that has risen, even above economic indicators, to a new status that could not have been predicted even 20 years ago. one of the vital roles of our ecumenical patriarchate is to assist in the process of growth and expansion that is taking place in traditional orthodox countries, by holding fast as the canonical norm for the worldwide orthodox church, over a quarter of a billion people around the globe. at this moment, we wish to inform you, dear friends, that in october – next month – at our invitation, all the heads of the orthodox patriarchates and autocephalous churches will meet in istanbul, in order to discuss our common problems and to strengthen pan-orthodox unity and cooperation. simultaneously, we will also concelebrate the two thousand years since the birth of the apostle of the nations, st paul. currently in the city (istanbul) we are experiencing great joy and enthusiasm as we are all preparing for its celebration as the european capital of culture in the year 2010. the city, which has a long history, was a crossroads for gatherings of people and served as a place of cohabitation of diverse religions and cultures. this past week, we attended a luncheon hosted by the prime minister of turkey in honour of the prime minister of spain. as is public knowledge, both are co-sponsors of the alliance of civilisations under the auspices of the united nations. we heard their wonderful speeches, which were harmonious with the diachronic tolerant spirit of our city. and now dear friends, please allow us to conclude in french in order to honour the french presidency, and also because this week you celebrate the european day of languages, i think next friday. excellence, mesdames et messieurs les députés du parlement européen, le patriarcat œcuménique réaffirme sa volonté de contribuer de toutes ses forces à la paix et à la prospérité de l'union européenne. nous sommes prêts à vous rejoindre dans d'autres dialogues constructifs comme celui d'aujourd'hui et nous prêterons une oreille attentive aux problèmes actuels. c'est dans cet esprit que notre patriarcat cultive et nourrit depuis vingt-cinq ans déjà des dialogues de fond avec l'islam et le judaïsme. nous avons organisé de nombreuses rencontres bilatérales et trilatérales. c'est dans ce cadre qu'au début du mois de novembre, à athènes, nous reprendrons pour la douzième fois notre dialogue académique avec l'islam. parallèlement à ces échanges, nous continuons le dialogue théologique avec les églises catholique romaine, anglicane, luthérienne, réformées et les anciennes églises orientales – arménienne, copte, etc. au mois d'octobre et à l'invitation du pape, nous aurons l'occasion, le privilège même, de prendre la parole lors de la douzième assemblée ordinaire du synode des évêques catholiques du monde réunis au vatican. tout cela pour dire que le patriarcat œcuménique est très actif dans le domaine du dialogue œcuménique, cherchant ainsi à contribuer à une meilleure entente entre les peuples, à la réconciliation, à la paix, à la solidarité et à combattre le fanatisme, la haine et toutes les formes du mal. nous tenons à vous remercier pour cette occasion unique de prendre aujourd'hui la parole devant votre assemblée pour la deuxième fois et nous implorons la miséricorde infinie de dieu et sa bénédiction pour toutes vos justes entreprises. permettez-nous de présenter depuis cette auguste tribune nos meilleurs vœux aux fidèles musulmans du monde entier à l'occasion de la grande fête du ramadan qui approche ainsi qu'aux fidèles juifs de la terre entière, à l'approche de la fête de roch hachana. nous sommes tous frères et sœurs, enfants du même père céleste et sur cette merveilleuse planète, dont nous sommes tous responsables, il y a de la place pour chacun, mais il n'y a pas de place pour la guerre, ni pour ceux qui s'entretuent. une fois de plus, nous vous remercions de tout cœur de nous avoir accordé le grand honneur et le privilège de nous adresser à vous aujourd'hui. (l'assemblée, debout, applaudit l'orateur)
his holiness the patriarch bartholomew! the european parliament has honoured you by having the members of parliament rise from their seats to thank you for this speech. you spoke of pax, of peace with men and with creation. this peace is achieved by respect for human dignity. we don't have to agree with every belief. we don't always have to accept it, but we have to respect the people around us. that is the essence of human dignity, and that is the essence of tolerance. with this in mind, we would like to thank you once again for your contribution to the european year of cultural dialogue. it is an important contribution to the understanding of people on our continent and in the world, to reconciliation, peace and freedom. thank you very much, patriarch bartholomew. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the resolution on the eu-india summit, not because i was against cooperation with india, on the contrary. as co-chairman of the friends of india in this parliament, i am in favour of strengthening cooperation. but this resolution is a shopping list of all the issues we can think of about this giant country. i can only recall paragraph 29, where we call for a report from the commission on the human rights situation in india and on the results of the eu-india human rights dialogue. nevertheless, we have many paragraphs on certain groups of the population, such as the christians in orissa - and in that respect the previous speech is completely absurd, it is mentioned very often in this resolution - the muslims in kashmir and the dalits in other parts. i mean, all in good time. i imagine the indian parliament passing a resolution on the roma in the czech republic, the hungarians in slovakia and the russians in estonia and latvia. we're not mature enough to focus on the right things, but there's always a long list of all kinds of topics that come up, and that really narrows our impact. i know we're not being taken seriously. that is why i voted against it. it's a shame, though. this ninth summit is important enough, and parliament must also consider reforming such resolutions in its reform.
in writing. - i have withdrawn amendment no 132 to the trautmann report also on behalf of the 40 signatories because it was not possible to reach a compromise in the european parliament on strengthening the fundamental right to protection of intellectual property when the framework directive on the so-called telecommunications package was being discussed. the aim of amendment no 132 was to develop new ways of balancing the fundamental right of free access to information/internet and the fundamental right to protection of intellectual property in the face of the dramatic increase in piracy on the internet. the support of the epp-ed group for this motion was withdrawn after the left-wing groups (spe, greens/efa, vel/ngl) linked their support for the report by the european authority for electronic communications markets (aem) to this issue.
president of the council. - madam president, dear martine roure, mr commissioner, dear joaquin, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing the end of an era. global finance will not look like the one we have known in the next few years. it is not just an american crisis that we have to deal with, it is a crisis of the international financial system and no region of the world is spared. for many years there have been voices denouncing growing imbalances in the financial sphere: unreasonable risk exposure by many players, the weak ability of financial controllers to control the rapid introduction of increasingly complex financial products, and - mr commissioner - the taste, too pronounced for some, of greed. the results are in. the us financial sphere is in turmoil, and the us authorities are being forced to intervene in ever-increasing ways to avoid a systemic crisis. europe and the world are suffering the consequences of this crisis, the first of its kind since the 1930s. the french presidency is convinced that the events of the past few days reinforce the need for a strong and united europe in the economic and financial sphere. we must first respond immediately to the financial turbulence. economic and monetary union, with the european central bank, has a powerful central bank which has been able to intervene with speed, determination and efficiency when tensions were at their highest, in close cooperation with the other major central banks. this is a considerable asset in these turbulent times and we must welcome the action of the european central bank, which remains ready to intervene in any circumstance. in view of the acceleration of the turbulence in recent days, the market regulators in most member states have decided, as have the us authorities, to prohibit short selling for a certain period of time. this is an emergency measure but it is welcome because it can help to calm down the tensions in the markets. today we are not considering an initiative of the kind just announced by the us federal authorities concerning the large-scale purchase of 'toxic' products held by financial players, and commissioner almunia has rightly spoken on this subject. the financial system of the union remains sound overall and therefore does not call for this type of measure but we must remain very vigilant and nothing can be excluded in the name of any ideology. realism and pragmatism must come first. we will have to, if necessary, deal with any systemic risks using all the means at our disposal. emergency interventions by central banks and regulators are crucial but all experts agree that they alone cannot solve the crisis. the europeans must take responsibility for the other areas of intervention which fall to them. we must respond to the economic downturn. this was the subject of the common european approach adopted by the ministers for economic affairs and finance at the informal council in nice. the ministers, together with the commission and the president of the european central bank, decided in particular to allow the automatic budgetary stabilisers to operate in those member states which have room for manoeuvre. they also approved the european investment bank's plan to provide €30 billion of financing for european smes by 2011, which is likely to provide significant support for business as, paradoxically, there may be more in europe than in the us, even if the financial crisis is less tense, it carries as much risk to the real economy. with a stable financial system and sound banks, these banks, in order to improve their situation, may be forced, on the one hand, to restrict or increase the cost of credit, particularly for smes. the commission has therefore taken very direct action in relation to the latter. we also need to reform our financial system along two strong lines: the first is rapid legislative and regulatory action to bring transparency back into the financial system and to hold actors accountable. on 13 september, ministers expressed their determination to accelerate the implementation of the roadmap adopted in 2007 in response to the first signs of the financial crisis. this roadmap, in response to financial turbulence, focuses on four key actions: transparency, prudential rules, asset valuation and the functioning of markets, including credit rating agencies. the next step is to examine the controls on credit rating agencies, the review of the controls on banks and the adjustment of accounting standards, which in the financial field have undoubtedly played a procyclical role. this is a major priority of the french presidency, and we will discuss it at the next european council. i think - but the commissioner will confirm this - that the commission will very soon propose to amend the directives on capital requirements which have been in force since 2006. this exercise will be part of the ongoing work in the various fora to respond to financial turbulence, including, of course, the recent recommendations made by the financial stability forum. i know that the commission will be able to make these proposals as soon as possible and we are counting on your assembly to reach agreement with the council at first reading before the end of this parliament on these proposals, which are urgent. a proposal on credit rating agencies is also expected from the commission in the next few weeks. it will follow up the invitation issued by the council of ministers for economic affairs and finance in july 2008, and here again i am counting on your assembly's willingness to reach agreement on this ambitious proposal as soon as possible. i also note with satisfaction that it has been decided to set up a working group to study how the prudential supervision of banks and insurance should take account of the cyclical nature of developments, particularly with regard to capital. it will also have to be followed by concrete measures. these elements of financial sector reform are essential and will probably need to be complemented by other initiatives as the european reflection on the financial crisis continues. parliament must play its full part in this and the presidency has noted with great interest the recent contributions of your assembly. i am thinking in particular of hedge funds, which some experts tell us may be the next victims of the crisis. i think - as i have said - that the question of accounting standards but also the question of remuneration in the financial sector is one that we must tackle without hesitation. it is wrong to say - as i have heard from some european officials - that the laissez-faire must continue and that no regulation is necessary. it is more than a mistake, it is a mistake against the stability of the financial system, it is a mistake against reason. i say it plainly: we must think about regulating hedge funds. the european union must do this, we must think about the transparency of risks, the power of control of regulators and also the remuneration of this type of institution. the second fundamental aspect is the strengthening of our financial supervision system. the finance ministers welcomed the agreement of the committees of european regulators on the unification by 2012 of data requirements for european banks to be submitted to supervisory authorities. these are important initial results but others must follow and ministers agreed to continue their efforts to improve coordination of control and supervision of financial actors. we in the presidency stand with your assembly, with the commission, to strengthen the integration of supervision and prudential control of groups which are increasingly cross-border. the union needs a more efficient and integrated supervisory system to be better able to deal with financial crises. ladies and gentlemen, france is chairing the council of the european union at a time of great turbulence. in these difficult circumstances, we are fully aware of our responsibilities. the time has come to take important decisions on the organisation of our financial system, its place in the european economy and its role in financing businesses and individuals. the union has not been inactive in recent months, so the presidency can rely on the reflections and work already carried out by the commission in this field and can also rely on reflections carried out in particular by a number of experts, including mr ricol in france. the european council in october will be an opportunity to take strong action at european level, and that is our ambition. it is clear that europe must not act alone, but must be sufficiently reactive and give impetus to new international cooperation, as president sarkozy said yesterday at the united nations. we also propose that an international meeting of financial regulators be held by the end of the year, with the g8 as the focal point. our aim is to help develop the first principles and new common rules at international level for the rebuilding of the international financial system. with this initiative, the european union is demonstrating its commitment to a renewed and balanced global governance. the european and international response must be designed for the short, medium and long term. in the short term, for emergency measures; in the medium term, for the renewal of our legislation; and in the long term, for a more comprehensive reflection on the role of our economic model in promoting growth and employment and pursuing the structural reforms which remain absolutely essential. that is what i wanted to say today for the information of the house.
member of the commission. − madam president, the series of events we have witnessed in financial markets during the last year, and in particular during the last few days, are of a magnitude that exceeds anything we have seen in our lifetime. many believe – and i tend to agree – that this will trigger important changes in the functioning of the international financial system. since the outbreak of the crisis in august 2007, disclosed losses have totalled more than usd 500 billion, a sum equivalent to the gdp of a country like sweden. and, unfortunately, the final figure is considered to be larger still. the acceleration of declared losses in the us during the last few weeks, and the subsequent decline in investor confidence, have pushed several major financial institutions to the brink of collapse. in cases where the fall of one of these institutions would have implied a systemic risk – that is to say, put the entire financial system at risk – emergency rescue operations have been required. some of these rescue operations took the form of public interventions, such as those carried out by the us treasury and the federal reserve to avoid the bankruptcy of the world’s largest insurance company, aig, or of the mortgage financiers fannie mae and freddie mac, that together underwrite half of all mortgages in the us. others took the form of private takeovers, such as the purchase of the investment bank merrill lynch by bank of america. for others, like the case of investment banker lehman brothers or almost two dozen us regional banks, bankruptcy was the only option possible. in short, we have witnessed an extraordinary transformation in the us banking landscape. consequently, we have reached the point where the us financial system is facing a substantial confidence problem. at this juncture, according to the us authorities, a series of bail-outs is not the answer any more. a systemic solution is urgently needed. in the short term we all need a response that will restore confidence and stabilise markets. the us plan announced by secretary paulson last week is a good initiative. in short, the us treasury secretary proposes to set up a federal fund to remove from the banks’ balance sheets the illiquid assets – those mortgage-linked securities that are at the root of the problems we face. removing these from the system would help to remove uncertainty and refocus the market on fundamentals. however, the details of this proposal need to be properly defined – and quickly – if it is to succeed. i should say that we are talking about a us plan, adapted for the circumstances in the us, where – it should be recalled – the crisis originated and where the financial sector has been most severely affected. but we all have to analyse why this has happened. we all have to cope with the consequences and react to the present situation. to do this, we first have to understand how we arrived at this point. the origins of the turmoil we see today lie in the persisting global imbalances in the world economy, which created an environment of high availability of liquidity and poor assessment of risks. the interconnection of global financial markets, the high level of leverage and the use of innovative and complex financial techniques and instruments, which were only poorly understood, caused these risks to spread across the international financial system on an unprecedented scale. what is clear is that market participants – but also regulators and supervisors – were unable to properly understand the risks of this situation and, therefore, could not prevent the consequences that we see today. true, in the months leading up to the crisis, the imf, the european central bank and the commission, among others, all warned of these underlying risks. we knew the situation was unsustainable, but what we could not know, and what no one was able to predict, was how, when and just how violently the crisis would be triggered by rising defaults in the sub-prime mortgage sector. what we are now seeing is the process of the last few years going into reverse, with the financial system grappling with the consequent need to deleverage. because of the exceptionally high leverage and the scale of linkages between risks, this process of unwinding is proving particularly painful. the lack of transparency in the system and the inability of supervisors to piece together an accurate and complete picture of the situation, has led to a dramatic fall in confidence. the financial sector has been most severely affected, as nervousness among banks has caused liquidity to dry up in the interbank lending market. several key credit markets remain disrupted, and recently there has been a renewed flight to quality among investors, accompanied by widening spreads between benchmark bond yields and yields on relatively risky investments. thanks to the swift and coordinated intervention by central banks – with a relevant role here for the ecb – we have managed to avoid a severe liquidity shortage. nevertheless, banks remain under pressure. the crisis of confidence has provoked a fall in asset prices, compounding the strain on banks’ balance sheets. combined with the situation in the interbank market, banks face difficulties to recapitalise. the situation we face here in europe is less acute, and member states do not, at this point, consider that a us-style plan is needed. taking a medium-term perspective, it is evident that we need a more comprehensive structural response. the latest events in financial markets have made it clear that the current model of regulation and supervision needs to be revamped. in the short term, we rapidly need to address the weaknesses in the current framework, and in this respect – and i fully agree with the council position – the ecofin road map of regulatory actions and the recommendations of the financial stability forum contain all the elements necessary. as you know, this includes concrete initiatives on enhanced transparency for investors, markets and regulators; revised capital requirements for banking groups, and clarification of the role of credit-rating agencies. work is progressing at the commission, and the commission will soon come forward with proposals on a revision to the capital requirements directive – next week – and new legislation on credit-rating agencies, i hope, before the end of october. but given the latest developments, it is likely that we will need to explore additional issues that have come to light. we will continue to discuss what else should be done to better ensure financial stability and to correct the reasons underlying this crisis, and in this regard i fully share the words of welcome that the presidency of the council gave to your contributions. finally, let me turn to the impact of the financial sector crisis on the economy – on the real economy. there can be no doubt that events in the financial sector are hurting the real economy. these effects have been compounded by the inflationary pressures of the rising oil and other commodity prices and the severe housing-market corrections in some member states. this combination of shocks has impacted directly on economic activity through higher costs and negative wealth effects and, indirectly, via a sharp erosion of economic confidence. the result has been a brake on domestic demand at a time when external demand is fading. leading indicators on economic activity point to a marked deceleration in the underlying growth momentum both in the eu and in the euro area. against this background, gdp growth for this year was revised down significantly in our last interim forecast to 1.4% in the eu and 1.3% in the euro area. at the same time, for this year inflation forecasts have been revised up to 3.8% in the eu and 3.6% in the euro area. inflation could, however, be at a turning point, as the impact of past increases in energy and food prices gradually fades in the coming months. this could possibly be reinforced by a further downward correction in oil and other commodity prices, although this remains to be seen. overall, the economic situation and outlook remain unusually uncertain. risks to the growth outlook remain on the downside, while risks to the inflation outlook are on the upside. these uncertainties are even higher regarding economic developments next year, but we expect growth in both the eu and the euro area to remain relatively weak next year. how should we respond to this economic slowdown? the best answer is to make use of all the policy instruments we have at our disposal. firstly, in budgetary policy, we must preserve our commitment to fiscal discipline and the rules of the stability and growth pact while letting the automatic stabilisers play their role. in this regard, the reform of the pact in 2005 is proving very helpful. secondly, a clear commitment to implement structural reforms, as defined in the framework of the lisbon strategy and the national reform programmes, would be crucial to boost consumer and investor confidence in the short term and to improve the resilience and dynamism of our economies in the longer term. measures to strengthen competition in retail and energy markets and improve the functioning of our labour markets would be particularly valuable at this juncture. finally, delivering improvements in financial-market regulation and meeting the goals of the ecofin road map is, as i have already stressed, more urgent than ever before. an effective and rapid solution to the difficult challenges we are facing could go a long way to restore confidence quicker than expected and limit the damage to our economies. in each of these policy areas our actions will be more efficient and effective if we coordinate them at the euro area and european union level. inevitably, we will need to overcome some resistance by member states to agree common action, yet the consensus we reached during the last informal ecofin meeting in nice should be deepened and developed. european countries face common challenges. we will overcome them most effectively if we work together to find common solutions. in this respect, the economic and monetary union is a formidable asset, and we should exploit the opportunities it provides to strengthen coordination, along the lines we proposed in our emu@10 report and communication last may. however, events make clear that internal european action is not sufficient to confront global challenges. we need to reinforce common external action in the financial stability forum, in the basel committee, in the g7, as well as devoting more attention to the future role of the international monetary fund. looking ahead, we need to think about how we can shape the future of our financial systems and global governance, and the role of the european union in this regard is vital. europe can be a driving force behind reinforcing global coordination and should take a leading role in international debates in this area, and this first requires european countries to work together and agree on internal solutions.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i've heard some of the speeches, and i've felt like i'm in the wrong movie. it was regularly stressed that they would act quickly. the only one that has acted quickly in recent months, years and weeks has been the market, which is always invoked when we think about something here on a regular basis. the market has very quickly solved the problem of investment banks. we couldn't have reacted that quickly. but there is no question of speed when we look at the council and the commission in particular. now we are being kindly invited by the americans to participate. i do not want to say anything about that now, you just have to look at the development. but what i expect from the council - and i am not sure whether the commission, barroso's commission, is capable of doing this - is that we will at least once break the resistance of the americans and the british on the question of the transparency of financial markets. i would just like to remind you of the german presidency when sarkozy and mrs merkel started something and the barroso commission backed off and said 'who is sarkozy and who is merkel?' and did not do anything. it's not going to be quick. i just want to remind you of enron and parmalat. at that time, the european parliament adopted a report by mr katiforis - i was the shadow rapporteur at the time - on the subject of credit rating agencies, in 2003. the commission may now, in october 2008, be proposing something which iosco is already saying today, that we must not deviate from the guidelines of the sec and the americans, because otherwise the international financial system will be disrupted. europe must make its own way here! that is why i am quite indifferent to what the sec is proposing here, and if the commission were to go in the same direction, it should dress warmly. we have to do what we think is right, and then the americans can follow us. so much for the rating agencies. it has been suggested that we should work in a reading on the basel ii revision. i would be glad if the council representative would listen now, because that is something he has raised. we can make a reading if the council gives up its resistance to bringing about a european supervisory regime. what the council has done so far here in close cooperation between the supervisors in europe has been shameful. nice was an intergovernmental collaboration. the council must therefore step over its own shadow and think in a european way. hedge funds were mentioned, private equity was mentioned. commissioner mccreevy said this week in this house that we must not rush things. well, there's a lot of blame to be taken out on mccreevy, but not for rushing things. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) mccreevy was regularly attacked by me here on the subjects of hedge funds and private equity. we must ensure that the commission now presents the right analyses and does not continue to refuse. the problem is not that of mccreevy, the problem is now that of barroso. (applause from the centre) i would be glad if we could make it clear to the american people that the sec - the american stock exchange regulator - should take care of its own flock. siemens is being scrutinized, america is not being scrutinized. i expect the commission and the council to formulate a european approach in this area. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have listened to mr radwan with great attention. the bavarian election campaign casts its shadow. yes, you are right about some of your remarks, mr. radwan. the market has done it, but the american taxpayer is paying. it's the state that pays. what we are seeing these days is not just the failure of investment banks and large insurance companies. it's the bankruptcy of an economic philosophy that we've been told for years that only it, this supposedly modern economy, where everything and anything was possible in the speculative, not the real, generates growth and creates wealth. and this system is going bankrupt! (applause from the centre) i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. you're a shrewd politician, my compliments. you're going to the state parliament in bavaria next sunday, good luck with that. but the main obstacle to katiforis' report was alexander radwan! but we can still remember that very well. charlie mccreevy is not here. what a shame! joaquín almunia has presented the analysis very well. the necessary measures that we must take now, commissioner almunia, you must take with you to mr mccreevy. i don't know where he is. maybe he's back on the track, maybe the racetrack is more organized than the international financial markets. but one thing is clear: we expect the commission to take the necessary measures by the end of the year, by spring at the latest, which we can take, including for example that we need rules on credit rating agencies, and we need them quickly. this means that we need - and this is a very important point for us - to decouple managerial salaries from short-term speculative profits. if a manager knows that he can take a billion he gains speculatively with 5% because his salary is linked to the speculative billion, then he will, it is human nature, no matter how try to get his billion profit, and cost it as happened in the past decades in many places in the world tens of thousands of jobs. as if nothing had happened, managers who met us here as smart boys in the corridors have destroyed entire companies, entire company sites and all the social destinies associated with them. and that destruction is contained in the 700 billion dollars that the taxpayer of the united states now has to put into the reorganization of the big banks and insurance companies. the dilettantism that reigns in the united states can be seen in the fact that even in the greatest crisis, it is these large companies that are being rehabilitated, for whose rehabilitation more than 700 billion dollars in the us budget must be paid by the small taxpayers. only, the fates of these small taxpayers, their over-indebtedness and their mortgages on their homes are not in the u.s. government's recovery plan. once again, the profits are privatized, the losses are socialized. this too must come to an end. (applause from the centre) we heard that in the debate on monday. i almost have the impression that we in the epp group have to hand out social democratic party membership forms. you cannot change your mind fast enough, and even worse, i should like to say, are the liberals. in a debate in november last year, i said the following about the role of the european union in globalisation: 'wild west capitalism, which rules the financial markets, threatens entire economies - now the us - and needs international rules. we need control, transparency and limitation of power in financial markets". the liberal group chairman replied: mr president, we have just heard the language of the past. well, at least he's not participating in the debate today, which is a quality improvement. but what i said then is not the language of the past. more than ever, the future is control and government oversight of a deregulated market that has no respect for anything and nothing at all. let me add one thing, therefore. of course we must act quickly, but we must act in an area which is of the greatest concern to me and to my colleagues here in the european parliament. the speculative bubble will not stop, even if we prohibit short selling in the short term, they will come back. and there will be times when investors are advised, for example, to speculate on rising food prices. food prices rise when there is less food. that is, those who are interested in high food prices must watch for food shortages. but food shortages mean world hunger, and if it's possible in a system that hunger in some regions of the world is profit in other regions of the world, then 700 billion dollars of cleanup is not going to do us any good. the system that is so perverse will eventually have bitter consequences for all mankind. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the global financial crisis has spread to markets with unforeseeable consequences. some may find it easy to express a little joy at the fact that some banker is going to fail and lose his job. but such rejoicing is utterly foolish, for the real losers are not the business bosses and not the stock traders. the credit crisis, the falling stock and financial values are hitting the poorest families hardest. their financial security is being shaken as savings and pensions are threatened. that is why it is necessary - and i think it is good that we do it in such a place today - to analyze the financial crisis and its causes carefully so that this does not happen again. martin schulz used his speech to weather the markets. perhaps you'll even have a chance to earn a living as an oracle after you've mentioned your quote from last fall. but you should also know that money is the engine of the markets, not hot air. the answer to the current crisis is not to abandon free enterprise. entrepreneurs create jobs and wealth. so do financial markets need more regulation? ludwig erhard, the father of the german economic miracle, has already put it to the point. he said: "the state should set the rules of the game for the economy and the financial system, but it should not play along with the referee". this means, of course, that fouls and any rule violations must be punished. regulation is necessary and right to prevent excesses, but it is not the market economy that is to blame for the crisis, but those who refuse to accept the framework and the rules. for years, experts have warned of risky lending, uncertain credit, and a bubble in the financial and real-estate markets. we need common and transparent rules for the whole of europe and for the whole world. yes, we need international control with eyes on the prize. because it doesn't help anyone if we use more rules to immobilize capital and cause an economic downturn. above all, we must rebuild confidence in an open and free market. the economic stability of the citizens of europe and the world depends on our ability to act. the international financial markets are not waiting for the decisions to be taken in europe, and they are not waiting for what we as a parliament say. mr commissioner, mr jouyet, my group expects you to act quickly and sensibly now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. this is a humiliating time for the united states. with these words, u.s. treasury secretary henry paulson announced his bailout of up to $700 billion for the struggling financial sector. the situation in the united states is indeed alarming. the american financial system, with investment banks, hedge funds and structured products that are not subject to normal banking supervision, and many transactions through special purpose entities that do not appear on the balance sheet, has practically collapsed. it won't be resurrected in its old form so soon. the last two purely investment banks, goldman sachs and morgan stanley, have been converted into commercial banks. the promise of ever greater growth, ever greater returns and ever greater liquidity with cheap money for everyone has proved to be an illusion. there is no such thing as a perpetual motion machine. a high standard of living with a house, a car and many other things at a young age is not something that everyone can have in the long run. the characteristics of the real economy have caught up with us all: without work, there is no saving, without saving, there is no investment, without investment, there is no sustainable growth. we europeans should learn from america's disasters. there is no alternative to fiscal consolidation. trees don't grow to the sky. the excess of cheap money, which the socialists are so happy to demand from the ecb, does not solve the problems, it increases them. the commission should implement as quickly as possible, but with caution and prudence, the proposals supported by the european parliament on credit securitisation, the retention of structured products in the books of originators, the development of supervision, the code of conduct for market participants and more!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the last few days have been, to put it mildly, full of upheavals in the u.s. financial system. one of the big news stories was that lehman brothers holding had to file for protection. i would like to point out two things in this connection. firstly, the united states is planning a huge aid package, but this will not end the crisis and will not protect us from further surprises in its further course. secondly, it is true that we need to look at what regulations can be improved and how to create more transparency. but even with better and more regulation, we will unfortunately not be able to rule out all surprises in the financial markets in general in the future, because we do not know all the existing banking mechanisms. how do i come to this conclusion? i would like to give just one example: surprises can arise from the clearing agreements between banks, which are very important in reducing credit risk. of course, banks may only take account of netting agreements in their risk assessment if they make the netting agreements legally enforceable. could better regulation eliminate any uncertainty about the extent of clearing arrangements in the future? i doubt that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am sure that the prices can be adjusted downwards, but i think that almost everyone agrees that given the limited energy resources available and the increasing competition for the exploitation of these resources, the prices will be very high in the long term. the current developments, including the problem of energy poverty, show that we have not yet sufficiently addressed this issue. i would say that acute social problems must always be tackled socially because of high energy prices. but we must ensure that our societies do not waste energy resources in a wasteful way. commissioner piebalgs should have something to say about that, because he was so committed here at the beginning of his term. the objective of energy saving and energy efficiency must be pursued much more rigorously than has been the case in the past. we've often said that we need to build different houses, that we need different heating systems, that we need different cooling systems, efficient electrical appliances. but where is the concerted action to unlock the great potential we have in the field of efficiency and savings? if we need something like a european master plan, national plans, then for this area. i believe that the structural funds, the cohesion funds, the programmes of the european investment bank, etc., must be used in conjunction to really pursue the objectives which you, mr piebalgs, have repeatedly stated three years ago. if we look at the current dispute over the price of oil, for example, and see what is being proposed in this parliament to stop the commission, which wanted cars to be more efficient, then of course we also wonder whether the idea of a price that will be permanently high has really come about at all. i would like to encourage you, commissioner, to put your old proposals for saving and efficiency at the centre of the strategic energy review. this is the field that will determine whether or not we can cope with our societies and their needs through times of sustained high prices.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission's white paper aims to present an integrated eu approach to reducing diet-related diseases and the associated associated problems of overweight and obesity. this is right and important, for the increase in disease from unhealthy diet and lack of exercise is compelling. the commission's aim of taking a policy-wide approach to action is right. only then can we combat the causes of obesity-related diseases. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. there are good approaches. the platform for healthy eating and exercise supports this very objective. it is moving through europe, trying to adapt citizens to the new situation. the commission's school fruit scheme is another example. but if we try to come back with populist demands, as we are doing in the proposal, we are distracting from the real problem. what's with the demand to restrict advertising? we have just adopted the 'television without frontiers' directive. there are strict rules. we'll be back with new wishes and ideas. i lived for 40 years in a neighborhood where advertising was forbidden. nor did it make us all thin in the communist part of europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's foodstuffs are not subject to taxation. do we want the poor in the european union to be unable to eat certain foods because they cannot afford them? or what approach do we want to take? we need the approach of education, of training. we've got to put money in there! we must not restrict the movement of citizens by means of coercive measures or restrict their diet.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i very much welcome the approach we are taking in the white paper to trace the causes of malnutrition and obesity and the resulting diseases. unfortunately, in european food policy, whether we are talking about nutritional profiles, food labelling or even some of the points in the white paper, we are falling into a very one-sided approach. we are trying to solve the problems we have in europe through product policy. i think it's a fundamentally wrong policy to assume that there's good food and bad food. many amendments show that this is not the case. there are good and bad, balanced and unbalanced diets. that should be our approach. the causes of poor nutrition are complex. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i do not want to prejudge the debate on labelling regulations, but i think that everything we do here should be a little under the heading: what can we do to motivate the consumer to think about his eating habits? a traffic light that suggests to him: i am now facing a good or bad product, is in my view more of a disabling instrument than an instrument of education and enlightenment. i therefore hope that we will take a more balanced approach and that we will realise that product policy alone will not get us anywhere.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. overweight and obesity are a major problem for our society. we know that we can't change consumer behavior through laws. rather, the changed behavior of society as a whole affects individuals. who wants to be an outsider? our health and eating habits are shaped by our social environment. there were complaints that meat consumption was increasing. but it's also increasing because more people can afford a piece of meat, not just because individuals are eating more meat. the most important thing is to have a healthy relationship with food and drink. extreme thinness thinking is as sick as binge eating. you can't regulate eating behavior by law. there is no such thing as a one-size-fits-all calorie and fat allowance. as different as people are, so also are their individual energy requirements, depending on age, sex, occupation and activity. prohibitions are a poor guide to situations where discernment would be required. we do not need new laws, but information campaigns imparting knowledge not straying, but freedom. courage for freedom also means courage for responsibility. we have mature citizens in europe who can think for themselves. in any event, a traffic light on the label is not representative if only certain particulars are considered independently of each other and confuse the consumer. what do i want to choose when red and green and yellow are shown at the same time? the food industry then passes on the cost of the new labelling to the prices, and drives them up even more. i am against the segregation of the population and against the mandatory colour coding on the front of the packaging and i therefore ask the members to vote against paragraph 37 of the report. we can do this, if necessary, in another task, when it comes to labelling. let us use the white paper on nutrition, overweight and obesity as a tool for opinion-forming and a stimulus for thinking for society, and not for new requirements and new laws!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are talking today about a proposal that really puts people at the centre of the european union, namely patients. i am very grateful to the commissioner for her introduction, but i would also like to point out that i am also grateful to mr kyprianou for all the preparatory work he has done in a difficult period. why in a difficult time? because the member states are often the last fossils in this european union, carved in stone, and they do not understand that people are at the centre, but they think that they and their systems are at the centre. that's not the case. patients are the focus, and they are the weakest link in our society, because they are fragile and sick. if we know that this patient mobility is actually a right in the single market, so it should have been in place for more than 20 years, and we are talking about it today, we should ask ourselves: is it timely? and are the member states up to date? i'm telling you, they're not! if eurobarometer today says that 30% of all people in the european union do not know that they have the right to go to another country for treatment, then all member states have done something wrong. then they didn't inform people about what their rights are, what they can do, and what patients are entitled to. i am sure that the commissioner will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. we don't want to touch that. but we also want to make sure that patients have the right to move. i also see that, in the context of the autonomy of the member states, there must be planning, especially in the case of inpatient treatment. that is why a major point of our discussions will have to be the question of authorization. mr bowis has already pointed this out. networks and info points need to ensure that patients know what they are allowed to do, but they also need to know where the best treatment is - in germany or in cyprus - so that patients also have the opportunity to be cured. if we can achieve this, to improve the quality and access to health care close to the citizens, where they live, then this is a wonderful result, then no one needs to move. that's what we want!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that when we talk about a social europe, we must always put people and their concerns first. 'putting the focus' means that we have to have a first priority, which is to ensure that the people in the local healthcare system get the best possible care. this is the first priority. that is the way this directive is to be approached. but there are many other reasons why we need other solutions, whether it's because people are travelling or working elsewhere, whether it's a less common disease or better care in another country. it is also necessary to remove the obstacles that exist in this context and to ensure that legal certainty is created. that's the second priority. the third priority is that we must always remember that we must also ensure that health care in the member states is a matter for the member states under the treaties of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we cannot, we must not and we will not unless we can agree to a common health policy in the european union at some point. that would be the best thing, but unfortunately, we're not there yet.
ladies and gentlemen, allow me to welcome on your behalf a delegation from the knesset, led by mrs amira dotan. an interparliamentary meeting will take place during this session as part of the regular relations between the european parliament and israel. this is the 33rd such meeting between our two assemblies. i would like to welcome mrs amira dotan and the members of her delegation, after having had the opportunity to have a more detailed discussion with them on tuesday. we wish you a spirit of dialogue and understanding in your work, qualities which are essential for a determined pursuit of peace in the middle east region! the european parliament is following this process very closely and is determined to contribute objectively and actively to peace in the middle east. (applause from the centre)
- i'm not sure. as far as i'm aware, you're a citizen of the united kingdom. the citizens of the united kingdom are known for their pragmatism and their cool head. so i suggest you keep a cool head now. there is no reason to abuse this question now. we're preparing an email for all the members of the house. the technical details will then be provided in the corresponding languages. i am not saying that we should not be concerned. we're doing what we need to do. you don't have to admonish us to tell the truth. we are always committed to the truth, including in this matter, madam president. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on tuesday, five members from four different political groups put up a large poster to promote a written statement under number 75. the necessary authorization from the competent quaestor fazakas is in place and was in place at the time. the poster was removed on tuesday afternoon without any of the authors of this written statement having been informed. we couldn't find it all day yesterday. today we found out it's security. the reason given was that it was a political decision that this written declaration could not be promoted. since when does the administration decide what is politically right and wrong, especially when there is an authorization from the competent quaestor? we are democratic members of parliament who have the right to make our views known. you don't have to agree with the statement, but removing the poster without notifying the authors is wrong, an unding, and cuts off the rights of mps. i would ask for a comment on this. (applause from the centre)
mr alvaro, i have to ask you a question. i am hearing about this operation for the first time through your spoken message, which is completely legitimate. i assure you, we will look into this matter.
i am not going to go into detail. i have been asked by the conference of presidents to make a brief statement on tomorrow's european day of languages. i'm happy to make that statement. please make it a little easier for me, because this explanation is in several languages, and that is a great effort for me too. i ask you to take note of this statement.
- i'm not sure. from what i have been told, the building in strasbourg is as safe as the building here in brussels.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to propose, on behalf of the epp group, a rewording of the oral question on this point. i would like to say in advance that the report by mr deprez and the whole committee is excellent and that the epp would like to support it. we have a key point, namely the question of the right to vote for migrants in the european union, not because we reject the right to vote in general, but because we believe that it should be decided subsidiarily. the right to vote is not a european issue. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we ask the other groups to support this so that we can all agree to this good report. the new wording is:a proposal concerning the integration of long-term residents into the political life at european and local level; a step forward which could help the social, cultural and political integration of these long-term residents; i'm asking for your support.
i see that there is a contradiction. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
i would point out that the european parliament has wisely decided to do so. (the president declared the common position adopted as amended) yes, i'm sorry, mrs pack, but that can be changed. we must first of all abide by the law.
i am not going to go into detail. i now give the floor to mr cohn-bendit and then we have to vote. we can draw the consequences of what we have decided ourselves. if we have decided something questionable, we have the ability to change it ourselves, but it must be changed in an orderly manner.
we don't want to make hell hot, but the consequences can be drawn if the majority of the house wants it.
i am not going to go into detail. there's no need to get excited. you made a decision. if parliament has made a decision which perhaps the majority of the house thinks was not a reasonable decision, then that can be changed. but as long as the law is not changed, the law will be respected. that is the basis of this parliament. (applause from the centre)
madam president, you can make a written statement, but this was not the time to insist on it.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission does not have a position on this point.
the commission did not comment. mrs berès, do i understand you to agree to the applicant, mrs kauppi, on these terms? then let's put the motion to a vote. (parliament agreed to the request for an adjournment of the vote)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have rejected the foglietta report and i would like to thank all the colleagues who supported me in this rejection. although obesity is a growing problem, this white paper is not a contribution to a solution. on the contrary! it is a wild tangle of different recommendations and demands for legislation. we're making a fool of ourselves. i am glad that at least the proposal on the traffic light labelling of foodstuffs has not had a future, but other proposals that anticipate something we are still doing and for which i am the rapporteur in this parliament, namely food labelling, have been adopted. we decided that we want to censor advertising, that we want to ban artificial trans fats, but at the same time we want to label them on food, that in the future we will have official waist measurements, that we will monitor the salt content in food, and we want to intervene in food recipes. a new definition of healthy eating has been introduced, which is now only possible through organically produced food. this is discrimination against conventional farming. there is no such thing as bad food, which is not allowed on the market under our legal regime. every consumer has the right to information, but also the dignity of being able to make his own decisions.
in writing. − the proposal describes the lisbon treaty as 'an essential and urgent condition' for the eu to 'really be an area of freedom, security and justice'. the lisbon treaty was rejected after the irish referendum, and this must finally be accepted. the proposal calls for the operation of sis ii and the 'strengthening of frontex'. the frontex border agency is the operational implementation of the eu's inhumane policy of closure towards people in need. the sis ii shall provide the data necessary for this purpose. this policy is anti-human and therefore fundamentally to be rejected.
in writing. − a pluralistic media system is a basic prerequisite for the survival of the democratic european social model. however, the concentration of ownership in the media system creates an environment that encourages the emergence of monopolies, creates barriers to market entry and leads to the standardization of media content. the development of the media system is increasingly driven by profit orientation. in order to avoid conflicts of interest between media ownership concentration and political power, competition and media law must be interlinked. these conflicts of interest are harmful to free competition and pluralism. the balance between public and private broadcasting must also be ensured in order to strengthen pluralism. i also call for measures to improve the competitiveness of media groups to promote economic growth. the competition rules at european and national level must be applied consistently to ensure competition intensity and market access. in particular, media regulation at national level must be transparent and of high quality. i therefore welcome the commission's intention to develop indicators to measure media pluralism. i also call for the development of other indicators, including those on democracy and codes of professional conduct for journalists. i also believe that the rules on media concentration should also regulate the means of accessing and disseminating content on the internet.
in writing. - media concentration is a widespread evil and must be combated. but first, there are several countries in the eu where media concentration is a problem. the commission has already made a number of proposals. secondly, the report calls on the european commission in several places to take action in an area where the subsidiarity clause applies. if that had been changed, or if i had been able to vote for that change, i would have voted for the mikko report.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is with great satisfaction and admiration and with great pleasure that i welcome ingrid betancourt to the european parliament today. welcome to the club. (applause from the centre) the fact that you are here today is a testament to the fact that brave men and women in the struggle for freedom and human dignity never give up hope. after your release on 2 june 2008, i had the pleasure of writing to you on behalf of the european parliament to welcome you to freedom. the time has come for you to be our guest in the european parliament. for six years, four months and nine days, you were held hostage. only you can imagine what you have been through during these 2321 days, but you have become a symbol of freedom and human resistance against oppression and the deprivation of basic human rights, a model of dignity and courage for all of us. your children have accompanied you on your journey. i will never forget how your two children - your daughter and your son - came to me in another capacity some years ago and how they stood up for their mother. it was the love of children. you can be proud of your children! (applause from the centre) terrorism, as practiced by your hostage-takers, is a direct attack on our values, on freedom, human dignity and democracy. ingrid betancourt, your example once again shows us clearly that democracies must never give in to terrorism. it is a political and moral obligation to ensure that the rule of law is always upheld. during your imprisonment, many members of the european parliament worked tirelessly for your release, and i know that many representatives of the various ingrid betancourt committees are also here today, active supporters of your cause, who are working for the freedom of all the hostages in colombia. i would like to welcome all those who have worked for ingrid betancourt and are now here in the european parliament. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, we must now continue our efforts without fail to secure the release of all those who are still deprived of their freedom. that's one of the reasons you're here today. you yourself, ingrid betancourt, have said: 'for a victim of terrorism, the greatest danger is to be forgotten. when i was in the jungle, i had a face and a name. i now demand that we do the same for those who are left behind. those were and are your words. we are asking for this today on behalf of the whole european parliament. this year we are celebrating the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, which was adopted by the united nations general assembly on 10 december 1948. this declaration was the first worldwide and solemn commitment to the dignity of every human being and the equality of all people, regardless of their skin colour, creed or origin. article 3 of the declaration states: 'everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person.' many people have been deprived of their liberty because they have defended or are defending human rights. the conference 'human rights activists speak out' which is being held this week in the european parliament has given us the opportunity to hear many testimonies from people who have been oppressed, arbitrarily detained or forced into exile for fighting for fundamental rights and freedoms. we also had the opportunity to discuss how we can better protect and support these people in their work. it is now a great pleasure and honour for all of us, dear ingrid betancourt, to ask you to address the european parliament!
mr president, dear friends, it is with great emotion that i am with you today, on the very day when the united nations and the european union are commemorating together the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights. and, of course, i can't help but wonder how extraordinary this coincidence is. just three months ago, i was watching you act from the depths of the amazon rainforest, and my greatest aspiration was that others would come here to speak on our behalf, while we were still prisoners of each other's madness and abandonment. it's a miracle, i'm sure, that i can share these moments with you. i arrive, full of admiration, in a room that never ceases to envy me. i hope, like all latin americans, that your example will be contagious and that we too, in the union of our peoples, may one day meet in a latin american parliament, like yours, to find in dialogue and respect the keys to a common destiny that we want for our continent, great and generous. i know only too well how much you have thought of me during all these difficult years. i have a vivid memory of your commitment to our families at a time when the world was not interested in the plight of colombian hostages and when talking about it was simply frowned upon. i was listening to the radio in the jungle, and it was broadcasting the details of a session that was taking place right here. i didn't have any pictures, but i had the voices of the journalists who were describing the session. it was from here, from this room, from you, from your refusal to resign and your silence of reproach, that my first help came. thanks to you, i realized more than five years ago that we were no longer alone. if i kept hope alive all these years, if i could hold on to life, if i could carry my cross day after day, it's because i knew i existed in your hearts. i thought they could physically take me away, but my name and face would always find refuge from oblivion in your thoughts. that's why, from the first moment i set foot in the world of freedom, i wanted to come to you, in this house that i feel is my own. i had to tell you that nothing you've said or done has been in vain. if i'm alive, if i've found the joy of living again, i owe it to you. i want you to know that your words have been my salvation long before physical salvation actually came. thank you! (applause) thank you all. thank you for opening your hearts to this drama that is so far away from all of you. when i thought about creating a status for victims of terrorism and when i spoke to the un about the need to give a space for the families of the victims to express themselves, i thought about the example you have given us. i know you've welcomed my family, my mother, my children, that you've listened to them. in the jungle, when i knew it, it made all the difference to me. because thanks to your generosity, the european parliament has become a platform for the world to know the extent of the barbarism that we have suffered and that more than 3 000 of my countrymen are still suffering. the words that were spoken here, which allowed me and my companions to be released, created the need to act with respect for the lives of all the hostages and also of all the guerrillas who were our captors. this absence of violence is the result of your demand and commitment. this is a precise, clear, concrete result of your action. (applause) i would like to thank i would also like, in this room, to pay tribute to the thousands of human rights activists, the thousands of freedom fighters who have mobilized around the world to get us back, and the return of many, many other people around the world. i see the yellow ficib t-shirts here. (applause) i would like to thank
i'm not going to let you go. you have allowed us, the freely elected members of the european parliament, to look into your heart and, ladies and gentlemen, i think i can say this on behalf of all of you, there has never been an hour in this european parliament with such profound human emotion as we have just experienced. you, dear, dear madame betancourt, have given us a message of solidarity and stated that your example - the suffering you have endured and the freedom you now have - will hopefully also lead to all the people still held captive by terrorists being given the same freedom that you now have. this is the greatest sign of solidarity you can give to all the prisoners in the world, and for that we would like to thank you from the bottom of our hearts! (applause from the centre) madam betancourt, in your peaceful struggle for freedom, democracy, human rights and the dignity of every human being, you have encouraged us, the freely elected members of the european parliament, to continue to fight peacefully with great commitment. you encouraged us to have the conversation, and you called the word the most important thing in human life. the word was at the beginning of human communication. they encourage us to continue along this path. dear ingrid betancourt, allow me to conclude by saying this: we have had the privilege of living this hour with you, this hour of deep human emotion, but at the same time of a great message for our action for us who are chosen to act. we wish you peace in your home country of france, which is an important country of the european union and which holds the presidency of the european union for this six-month period, and we wish you the happiness you desire, and above all the love you have spoken of. thank you, ingrid betancourt. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i shall also begin with the irish referendum and the treaty of lisbon. you are right, mr president of the commission, we need it more than ever. i therefore believe that we need a stable basis for its implementation. this includes getting the irish and the voters in ireland to vote for this treaty. if the irish government cannot do this before the european elections, then we will determine the next composition of the european parliament and the commission on the basis of the treaty of nice. after that, it will continue, because we need these reforms. we need them for enlargement, we need them for dealing with the crises we are currently experiencing, and in the meantime, until such a new referendum in ireland, we also have time to find out exactly from what sources the cia, the us military industrial complex, is funding the anti-lisbon campaign. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) you see, the people i've been talking to are already talking. we know where they get their money. we'll be in a lot more than that, you can count on it. the crisis we are in has been described correctly by you, mr barroso, but there are a few additional remarks to be made to what you have said. i am sorry to say that some of the things you said were good, but one thing that really shocked me was the composition of your steering group to deal with the crisis. that you are in there is self-evident, and that a commissioner as qualified as joaquín almunia is there is also self-evident. but now you've named us mr. mccreevy as the one you want to put on the steering group to deal with this crisis. if there is one apologist in this house and in your commission for misguided market radicalism, it is mr mccreevy. (applause from the centre) so you can't, with all your good will, call the people who started the fire into the fire department. you can't do that with the best of intentions. as far as neelie kroes is concerned, you say that we have 8,000 banks in europe. i would ask you to ask mrs kroes what she thinks of the public banking system in the european union. in my country there are public banks which have less state guarantees than the private banks are currently getting from the states. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. making the goat the gardener is not the solution to this crisis! for years we have heard the neoliberal dogma that the market rules. for years we have heard here that the effects generated by the market continue to leak downwards. everyone would benefit in the end. the result is that those who are supposed to benefit, the taxpayers, are now paying the price. that's what you have to say in a crisis like this. the house is on fire! that's why it has to be erased. that is why the measures - you are right, they must be coordinated in europe - are the right ones, because we must build trust and regain trust, because we must overcome fear, because it is precisely this fear that leads to the self-fulfilling prophecy and accelerates the collapse we want to avert. that is why these measures are right. we support them too. but one thing must be added: the house that has now been burned down cannot be rebuilt in this form, another house will have to be built, one on a more secure foundation and one with clear rules! the director of the institute for world economy, dennis snower - not a member of the radical socialist group - said in an interview the correct phrase: in financial markets, there was simply not enough and not the right regulation. that's why the system doesn't work. yes, the man is right! but those who have been saying for years, 'let us regulate,' have had to hear from you for years, especially from the right side of this house, we would stand for the 19th century. the voice of the past, mr watson said about my demands in one of the last debates here, when i called for regulation, when i called for transparency, when i spoke about credit rating agencies and the rules for them. the voice of the past now speaks. the rules of the past are the necessity for the future. this is the clear answer we must give to this neoliberal mainstream, which has failed classically. (applause from the centre) the difficulties we are facing now will not be overcome so easily. it's going to take a long time. in this long period, we must above all avoid the recurrence in the future of the events which have led to the present crisis. we must therefore take account of the fact that certain forms of speculation are prohibited by law. no one can tell me how it is morally justified for international financial centers to bet on food shortages to drive up food prices because investing in the food companies' assets gives high returns. food shortages lead to hunger. but then one man's hunger is another man's profit. this is a perverted system! you have to take legal action against such things! for example, mr president of the commission, this could be a topic for the high level group on the architecture of financial markets which you have convened. i would like to congratulate you on this, and i think it is a good decision. but i should also like to say that parliament called on you to do this three years ago in the muscat report, and you ignored it for three years. you are late, but you have come with the proposal. thank you very much.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. events are reversing, the markets are in free fall. it is not clear whether this is due to the general loss of confidence or whether speculators are already at work trying to see if and to what extent they can bring the markets to their knees. the alde group has already tried to identify the causes of the crisis and the concrete measures we should adopt to avoid a repetition of this crisis in the future in a full-day workshop in february this year. blaming individual market players is not going to do much good. in fact, we all have failed: the investment banks, who developed products that no one understood because of their complexity, the mortgage banks, who did not have a credit check, the rating agencies, who generously ignored conflicts of interest, and the supervisors, who did not cooperate with each other or with the central banks, and did not bother to achieve real transparency of special purpose vehicles, which are not shown individually on the balance sheet. nothing has happened for too long! the commission, which we asked years ago to look into the rating agencies and give us clarity on their activities and improve transparency in other areas as well, has waited far too long to take action. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the failure of the member states to implement the budget. i hope that these measures will help, but they could also be misunderstood by the markets and seen as an expression of panic, and we certainly must avoid that. the house has 27 rooms, the fire is reaching the roof, but what do the 27 room residents do? they're trying to put out their own house fires, rather than working together.
i have to say, madam president, unfortunately, the president of the commission is no longer here. he said 'i have written it down: we do not yet have the rules to allow a european response'. he's right about that. mrs bérès said why he was right: because the commissioner responsible, mr mccreevy, has been playing dead for four years! he has always ignored the proposals from parliament in at least ten different reports. this is the fact, not neoliberalism, but the remote control from dublin and london of the commissioner responsible for financial markets! if the president of the commission had the courage to take away his powers and give them to mr almunia, they would be effectively abolished! but he doesn't have that courage, and here speeches are made as if the hour had started from zero. i am surprised at the approach of the president of the commission. he won't be able to talk himself out of his responsibility! i say this clearly because we cannot sit back and wait. we have to move fast. the central banks have acted, the finance ministers have acted. all this is necessary now because the crisis has reached the scale we have feared for years. where is mrs. kroes? it is not only the commission, but also the council which has to decide on the matter. it sets deadlines, rather than considering whether ireland can give 200% of its social product as guarantees only to irish citizens and for future loans. who said a word about that? if the commission does not have the courage to make proposals for a european supervisory authority, even against the will of the member states, then everything will be lost. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i have to say, madam president, i would almost say that mr langen is a grand coalition because i agree with what he said. the crisis in georgia, the financial crisis, the crisis in energy prices - all cry out for a strong europe! i am therefore pleased, as chairman of the constitutional committee, that all of us here, except the anti-europeans, have voted in favour of the swift ratification of the reform treaty, and i thank the french presidency for its persistence in this regard. it is not a matter of putting it off for a long time, and i expect a clear signal from the summit next week and a timetable for completing the ratification. sweden and the czech republic are due to ratify the treaty by the end of this year, and i do not give up hope that ratification will be possible in ireland before the european elections. foreign minister martin told my committee on monday that there is a change in the way people in ireland think about the value of the eu. and six months is an eternity in politics! my second point is that we must also explain to the citizens why we need the eu. i am pleased that we will adopt a joint political declaration on the eu's communication strategy at the summit. i am grateful to the french presidency for bringing the three institutions together. this must now be tackled for the irish referendum and the european elections. the eu is not the cause of many problems, but the solution to many problems. you have to make that clear out there!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. at the beginning of this decade, baron lamfalussy presented a report in which he proposed ways in which the supervisory authorities in europe could work together more closely and better. the council welcomed these proposals at the time, but nothing has happened in practice. if there is a positive in the financial crisis we are currently experiencing, it is perhaps that the issue of improved supervision is high on the agenda. but it is surprising that a report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs under article 39 is needed for the commission to really take an active interest in this subject. it is clear that we can only meet the challenges of an integrated and growing financial market successfully if supervisory convergence and integration are increasing. the eu is now home to 58 out of 100 financial conglomerates with crossborder activities. that alone shows what must be done! the report by the two rapporteurs points in the right direction, as piia-noora kauppi has pointed out: the far-reaching introduction of colleges to supervise financial conglomerates operating across borders, the strengthening of the level 3 committees. this is fine, but it should be borne in mind that very often the small member states are only represented as host country supervisors in these colleges and that it is therefore particularly important to take their interests into account. in the short and medium term, there are probably no other approaches to improve the situation. in the medium to long term, this is not enough. we must have a system which is really worthy of the name of european supervision, and this system should be modelled on the system of the european central banks.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 9 october. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i am pleased to welcome mr milinkiewicz and mr kozulin to the podium. our two visitors are two outstanding leaders of the democratic opposition in belarus. they have courageously challenged the current undemocratic government during the 2006 presidential elections, demonstrating courage again and again, and have been massively hampered in their tireless commitment to freedom and democracy. we are honoured that mr milinkiewicz, leader of the freedom movement and winner of the 2006 sakharov prize for freedom of thought, and mr kozulin, honorary chairman of the belarusian social democratic party hramada and former political prisoner, are attending today's debate in our house on the situation in belarus. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in belarus.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i welcome, on behalf of the green group, the delegation of well-known politicians, mr milinkiewicz and mr kozulin, who are following our debate here in the european parliament and will then be able to report back to their countries. it is still a problem that the information about our work here for the country of belarus has to go this way because there is no other way. this is a sign that the basic conditions for democratic development in this country are still not met. freedom of expression and information are fundamental to democracy. president yushchenko publicly promised in the summer to hold elections in the country in an open, democratic and fair manner, and he has broken that promise. an election preparation that deprives the opposition of all opportunities to make its candidates known nationwide, and changes the conditions so that even a well-organized opposition has no chance of passing even one candidate, is not a fair and democratic election! that is why our resolution is clear on this point. it needs the conditions to lift the visa ban and it needs the conditions to provide a new financial instrument with the means to support the opposition and the population in their democratic efforts.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. it is an own-initiative report which, in accordance with rule 131a and rule 45 of our rules of procedure, is to be dealt with by the shortened procedure, that is to say, by a presentation without an open debate by the members and without the possibility of tabled amendments. i protest against this self-limitation of the rights of members of the european parliament and i demand that we in the european parliament change this regulation again. it is not possible that important issues such as the fight against poverty, social exclusion cannot be openly debated here. the committee on budgets has, after all, debated this subject intensely, tabled 200 amendments and 40 compromise amendments. it is a matter of public record and we are taking away a piece of our own rights by refusing to discuss it in plenary.
i have to say, madam president, the un declaration of human rights is celebrating its 60th anniversary this year. since then, countless human rights groups and organisations around the world have used the declaration as a basis for their work, such as charter 77 in czechoslovakia, solidarność in poland and human rights movements in latin america. human rights policy has not lost its relevance today. it has not yet entered all policy areas. we must not let human rights run as a special post alongside our other policies, but must seek to fight for them, even at the cost of various disadvantages. as fundamental values, human rights are one of the strongest pillars of the european house, and we must therefore pay greater attention to them in our own work. i am therefore in favour of making the subcommittee on human rights a main committee because of its importance.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the world trade rounds are very difficult, as we know from experience. i would like to thank the commission for having negotiated very well, and at the last minute, and for having shown not only the necessary flexibility but also a great deal of understanding for the poorer developing countries in her field of competence, as we have been told repeatedly in our discussions. in this respect, it was not the european union that was at the centre of the debate this time, but other countries, which were actually much more difficult negotiating partners. i regret that in the face of the financial crisis we are currently experiencing, we are finding that we need more international, more multilateral rules, because these are the corset that ensures that on the one hand poorer countries can integrate, but also that richer countries can ensure that their people benefit from this, and that at the same time standards are set. what we really regret is that this round of world trade cannot therefore be concluded by the end of the year. we should say goodbye to this illusion. it is perhaps also a good thing that we are tackling all this again with the new parliament and the new commission and then also after the elections in the united states, rather than simply putting it on the stage. my group would advise caution rather than ending this round on bends and breaks. but i would ask you, commissioner, whatever you do in the negotiations and whatever happens, to inform parliament in good time and sufficiently early and to ensure that, whether or not we get the lisbon treaty, we nevertheless look at whether we can make a kind of pre-emptive 'quasi-lisbon treaty' for trade.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if you negotiate for seven years and you get no result, then you just have to ask yourself, self-critically, what mistakes we might have made, completely independent of what mistakes other countries or other negotiating partners make. i think there is a list that can be made, and it doesn't have to be shared by everyone, but perhaps the call for tariff reductions and market opening is not the right tool for developing countries, because they would lose their revenue for their households and they would have no equivalent to compensate for that. then there can be no health care, education or infrastructure development in these countries. perhaps for some of these countries a free trade agreement, whatever direction it takes, is not the right model, and they have an interest in concluding a trade agreement, but on the basis of gsp+. perhaps it is true that in the case of development, many countries must first develop their own economy. the european union and european countries have also developed their economies in closed markets. if you don't get anything, you have to analyze why. the doha round was originally committed to the millennium development goals. i understand that many countries say they feel - and i do not share mr ó neachtain's view - that the current negotiations are only about this - and the global europe strategy says the same - that global companies can act even more globally. and that has a negative impact on small regional producers. it also has an impact on small local producers in europe. it is in the spirit and the need of the european union that we move forward. that's why we may have to use a different negotiating tactic. i hope the new commissioner will take this opportunity. she's from the outside, she's had negotiation experience. she may not yet have the necessary expertise in trade matters, but she has an expert team and perhaps she will use the opportunity within the mandate a little differently than the previous commissioner. and we have a chance!
the commission has already done so. once again, the doha round has failed. is the world bored with the wto? not at all! we were basically on the verge of a deal. it wasn't that much missing. but at the last moment, it was india and china that broke off the talks. it is clear that this is not a technical failure, but a political one. because it shows that the new powerhouse of the world trade circle is in asia and not so much in europe. china's role is significant, because china has always been committed to free trade and now it seems to have a new agenda. i would like to congratulate the commission - and you, madam commissioner - on this. i would also like to congratulate commissioner mandelson on the positive role played by the eu. unlike in hong kong, we were in the negotiations, we were active, we were willing to compromise. it's just a little unfortunate that commissioner mandelson is leaving us right now; we'll have to change horses in the middle of the stream. he was a good negotiator, he caused us a lot of trouble in parliament. lady ashton will have to take his measurement. have a good day.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to start the debate from the other side. after the visit of the european parliament delegation to ukraine last week, it is very important to stress that ukraine's further path towards the west, its further path towards democracy or its integration into the european union is not only decided here, but is very much dependent on ukraine itself. the fact that we are faced with new political crises year after year during regular visits, that we are debating year after year whether there will be new elections soon, is not the development that can underpin this integration. we, as members of the european union delegation on the ground, have made it clear that we believe that in ukraine the competition between the exponents of the blocs must no longer dominate the political agenda, but that it is necessary to agree on the programmes with which ukraine is to be stabilized. the commission has also been active in the field of the environment. this is very worrying, because many citizens of ukraine who have won the democratic process in the first place are now turning away from ukrainian politics with a shudder. such seriousness should be clearly expressed at every visit and meeting with representatives of all the blocs and parties of ukraine.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the challenge of integrating water into all policy areas and developing a comprehensive approach to water management is one that must be met. this debate has already shown that very clearly. all political levels - national, regional and local - should be involved in this process. as rapporteur for the solidarity fund, i urge the council once again, and most strongly, given that this parliament adopted its position in may 2006, to adopt swiftly a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the eu solidarity fund, in order to complete the definition of the criteria and eligible measures by including cases of drought, so that the damage caused by natural disasters can be dealt with in an effective, flexible and adequate way! i would also like to appeal to the regional and local authorities to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the structural funds to invest in infrastructure, both in terms of efficient use of water and in terms of avoiding adverse effects on the protection of water resources. the fact that this is always accompanied by an appeal to citizens in town and country not to underestimate measures to save water does not need to be stressed here, but goes without saying. i thank the rapporteur.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. first of all, i regret that the own-initiative report which i am asked to present on behalf of the committee is not open to debate in plenary and that amendments cannot be tabled. i think that this self-limitation of the members of parliament in our own rights and the devaluation of own-initiative reports are unacceptable. we have had a very intensive debate in committee on the reports presented today, with over 200 amendments, 40 compromise amendments, but also two hearings of experts and stakeholders, all in close cooperation with the women's committee. this is also a sign of the very great interest that members of this house have in this subject. the committee on employment and social affairs has voted overwhelmingly across all the political groups to develop the eu strategy to combat poverty and social exclusion, and i hope that tomorrow the whole house will do the same! the committee left no doubt that, with 78 million people living in poverty, including 19 million children, the eu and its member states have an obligation to set concrete, measurable targets for promoting social inclusion and eradicating poverty. the commission has just proposed principles for the strategy of active integration, which is to be approved by the european council. we in the committee support these proposals in so far as we were aware of them beforehand. but we go further and call in our report for a holistic approach to active social integration. we believe that this must be based on four pillars: first, income guaranteed against poverty through minimum social security schemes, minimum wages; secondly, active labour market policies for better jobs and decent incomes. third, improved access to public services and quality services; fourthly, improved participation of those affected by poverty and exclusion in the design and implementation of this strategy. and in this strategy we want to integrate gender equality as a cross-cutting task. the committee criticises the fact that not even all eu countries have a comprehensive social security network. in many member states, the level of minimum cover is below the eu poverty threshold. we therefore demand that income from social security and gainful employment should not lead to income poverty. we call on the council to agree on eu-wide targets for the level of minimum social security coverage i.e. at least 60% of national median income and minimum wages at least 60% of national or sectoral average wages . member states are to achieve these objectives within a given time-limit, in full respect of the principle of subsidiarity and in application of the open method of coordination. the committee paid particular attention to the fight against child poverty in its discussions on this report. we are concerned with the welfare of children. we are starting from the un convention on the rights of the child and we are starting from the fact that there is a political holistic claim to combat child poverty. we would point out that, in our view, access to high quality services is a crucial factor in the social integration of adults, but also of children and especially of groups of children most at risk of poverty. we urge member states to reduce child poverty by 50% by 2012 as a first step. we also reaffirm our resolution of january this year to eliminate the phenomenon of street children by 2015.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i strongly support the parliament's initiative on the flag and anthem. the european union needs these symbols because they bring europe closer to its people and give it an identity. that is why they should be officially recognized. in this context, i see our decision today as a small but important step towards returning to genuine normality as soon as possible. the removal of anthem and flag from the treaty, the background of which i am of course perfectly aware, is and remains at its core a barbaric act against european unity. the responsibility for this lies with those who have made this ultimate demand. the fact is, however, that this is playing into the hands of the ganleys, klaus and haiders, because their nationalist slogans against european integration from the so-called superstate are thereby given the appearance of credibility. but that's only one side of the coin. there's a second one, and it worries me no less. the citizens of the european union do not need and do not want a hiccup around flags and anthems in brussels. they want a social and democratic europe, a european union which will effectively protect them against the negative concomitants of globalisation. they want a clear answer to the question: who is the union protecting: the people or the markets? they want to see a serious fight against wage, social and tax dumping and a definitive end to the current addictive casino capitalism of the financial jugglers. and for that we need a political european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. please send a technician, this voting machine is broken, completely demolished! i voted earlier and i ask you to take note of that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i voted against the zimmer report, but i am in favour of the report's objective of promoting social integration and combating poverty, especially child poverty, in the european union. i am very much in favour of the idea that every person should be provided with the means to live a decent life. this principle must apply to both employed and unemployed people. i cannot, however, agree with a report which calls on the member states in many places to introduce minimum wages and which also asks the council to initiate eu minimum wage standards. this requirement is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity and the member states' own competence in the field of social legislation. the report also expressly welcomes the commission's proposal for a horizontal directive on anti-discrimination. i'm against discrimination, but i think it's the wrong approach.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the resolution because it is a clear call to the belarusian government to finally respect human rights. it is disappointing that the hopes of the people of this last european dictatorship for a democratic development have not been fulfilled by the questionable, indeed fraudulent, parliamentary elections of september. the same applies to the strategic repression of the opposition and civil society. at the same time, we have today called on the council and the commission to facilitate and intensify contacts between peoples and to democratize the country by seriously considering the possibility of reducing visa fees for belarusian citizens when they enter the schengen area and thus preventing further isolation of belarus and its citizens.
in writing. - i have just approved the zimmer report on the fight against poverty. policies must take concrete action to reduce poverty and combat social exclusion. the poor are those who receive inadequate social benefits, live in precarious employment conditions, or grow up in families with poor careers. the need for adequate social protection, individual education and training from an early age and the motivation to prevent falling into poverty on one's own. it is most regrettable that amendments to own-initiative reports are no longer allowed in the plenary. the epp/ed group rejects paragraphs 5 and 10 to 17, which deal with minimum wage systems. we are against eu-wide standards; the two sides of industry are to make their own decisions. of course, we don't want "working poor" people who work hard and are paid far too little. justice is a fundamental element of the social market economy. we must also be fair in our pay! but we do not support the idea of constructing a minimum income claim out of this. the commission has also proposed a new horizontal directive on non-discrimination, which my group unanimously rejects. moreover, a shorter version would have been good for the report. but since the objective and the measures are right - poverty must finally be reduced throughout europe - my group says 'yes' by a majority.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 9 october 2008.
i have received a request from the independence/democracy group to appoint mr nigel farage as a member of the committee on international trade in place of mr trevor colman. is there any objection to that?
you would of course have to ask the independence and democracy group, but i can assure you that the president of parliament will be in favour of absolute transparency on this matter.
i am not saying that the commission should be unable to take action on the matter, but i am saying that it should be able to take action on the matter.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 16 october 2008, pursuant to rules 130 and 131 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. monday, tuesday and thursday: no change. the committee on regional development calls for the commission's request for an oral reply on the eu solidarity fund to be postponed until the next partsession.
thank you very much, philip bradbourn. the matter is being investigated. the secretary general will take care of it.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we will hear - before and after the european elections - the usual lamentable analysis that europe is too far away from its citizens. i wonder what we as the european parliament are doing about it. a while ago, a colleague and i started an online petition which is treated just like other petitions in the committee. this online petition has received about one and a half million signatures: that's roughly the population of estonia. at the urging of the chairman of the committee on petitions, mr libicki, this has been brought to the attention of the conference of presidents with a request that parliament allow a debate on how we deal with online petitions in principle. the fact that the petition is about the seat of the parliament does not have to play a role in this, because we often discuss controversial topics and i also know that not everyone agrees with me. but to deny this debate and to complain about the distance between europe and its citizens is not compatible! i would like the conference of presidents to change this and perhaps remember it when they again lament the remoteness of europe's citizens.
thank you – there are always new arguments.
that concludes this item. i would recommend that colleagues only register to speak here if they are there.
the next item is the recommendation for second reading by the committee on employment and social affairs on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a european parliament and council directive on temporary agency work (10599/2/2008 c6-0327/2008 2002/0072 ((cod)) (rapporteur: harlem désir) (a6-0373/2008).
i have to say, madam president, my colleague jean lambert has already said that this is a very important breakthrough towards a social europe, even if it is only a first step. the citizens expect us to take real steps towards a social europe and to ensure that labour rights in the internal market and equal pay for equal work in the same place play a role. the european parliament has upheld this principle of equality in the directive against the commission's original proposal. it was very important that the council followed us here, because in this single market we can only compete on the basis of quality and not on the basis of wages. i would like to add one final point: as important as this breakthrough is a breakthrough towards the working time directive, but not in the way proposed by mr bushill-matthews, but rather in the absence of an opt-out as proposed in the european parliament's reading. i can only tell the council to follow us here.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on 22 october 2008. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on the report by evelyne gebhardt, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2201/2003 as regards jurisdiction in matrimonial matters and laying down rules on the law applicable in this field (com ((2006) 0399 c6-0305/2006 2006/0135 cns)) (a6-0361/2008) and the oral question to the commission on the council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2201/2003 as regards jurisdiction in matrimonial matters and laying down rules on the law applicable in this field by evelyne gebhardt and gérard deprez, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (oj b47/2008 10-06-07/2008).
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking today about a matter of the utmost importance to the citizens. we have a beautiful europe where people are increasingly mobile. we have a europe where more and more people are marrying or moving to another country, and that is a good thing and a success of the european union. but unfortunately, this success has a downside, which is that these marriages keep breaking up, and then there's the divorce that has to happen. the law we have today is so unfortunate in some respects that it can happen that a couple cannot find a competent judge or a law that allows them to divorce. this is of course a very unfortunate situation for these citizens. we must give it a remedy and an answer. this is about real people's lives, and that's of the utmost importance. i am therefore pleased that the european commission has taken up the matter and i wanted to reiterate that there will be no harmonisation of the law on this matter. we are not allowed to do that, and it is quite clearly stated in the treaties of the european union and the european communities that the law on these matters is a matter for the member states. but we must ensure that there is transparency and that citizens can also exercise this right. the law is very different. we have the country of malta, where there is no divorce at all, and on the other side sweden, where you can get a divorce within six months. we have the netherlands, where gay marriage is allowed, while in poland it is unthinkable. these are all questions that arise and that we must answer. we have done a good job in the european parliament, in good cooperation with the european commission, but also with the council. it is up to the council, which must decide unanimously, what we are going to do in the future in this area. i am afraid that is a bit of a problem at the moment, but i will come back to that later. the answers which the european commission has proposed to us are very positive. on the one hand, it wants to increase the choice of law under which a couple can divorce if both parties agree, while it is clear that there must be a reference to the life, the place of residence, the place of the couple's marriage or other aspects in order for this to be applied. the question also arises as to what happens if a couple or only one partner wants to divorce and the couple cannot agree on the law to be applied. we are not going to be able to have that much freedom of choice, because we have to make sure that there is a catalogue. we cannot accept forum shopping. we cannot accept that the stronger party in the partnership chooses which law is the most favourable to him and the other party is at a disadvantage. we cannot accept that. that is why we have two different answers to these questions. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. it's about custody, it's about alimony and all these issues that are connected in this case, and that's what the people need to know before they make a decision. we demand that the judges verify that the partners really know what the consequences of this choice are. it is also important that we prevent the application of a law that comes from somewhere and is not acceptable under the principles of the european union - i am thinking of sharia, chinese law or whatever. we have also found clear wording, particularly in amendments nos 25 and 30, which i tried to reinforce in my amendment no 36, namely that the law in question must be in line with the fundamental principles of the european union, otherwise it cannot be applied. we know that. the epp has tabled a number of amendments which i cannot accept at all. they bring about a total restriction of what we have today and would also be contrary to international law, as we have today in the hague convention, for example. we cannot accept that! we must talk again, and i hope that we will be able to find a solution to the problem by tomorrow. anyway, thank you very much, mr. demetriou, for the way you've been working with me. that's very positive. the council has a big problem. it must be unanimous, and there is a state which is simply preventing that unanimity from being achieved. that is why we in our committee have put this oral question to the council and to the european commission. i think it is very regrettable that the council is not here to answer that question. the minister has just left. it is essential for us, for the future of the european union, for the citizens, to know what we are doing now. the first question to the european commission - mr barrot, i am glad you are here to answer the question - is: do you intend to withdraw your proposal? secondly, do you intend to submit to the council, in accordance with article 11 of the ec treaty and in accordance with articles 43 and 45 of the treaty, a proposal for the establishment of a procedure for enhanced cooperation? i would like to know from the council whether it really wants to go down this road, because that is the big question that is being asked.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank all the speakers. i would like to make it clear once again that we have reinforced the provisions already laid down in rome iii and proposed by the commission by, for example, defining very clearly in amendment no 25: if the law of the place of residence does not recognise the separation or divorce or if it is obtained in a manner which discriminates against one of the spouses, the law of the place of residence shall apply. in sweden, this means that the jurisdiction is sweden. we have made it quite clear that if there were such cases, there would be a clear answer. it is impossible to put it more clearly in a text. that's why i don't understand the problem! but we should try - and i thank you, mr barrot, for being so clear and for wanting to speak to our colleagues in sweden again - to understand what the problem is. i don't understand it yet! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for me, as a woman who has always helped to shape women's policies, it is very important to find a positive answer, because the weaker part in a partnership is usually the woman. we must be very careful to find a good position. i also hope that we will be able to convince mr casini that we are in a good position here, in the spirit of the compromise we have tried to reach time and again. amendment no 38 provides a basis for this, in which we make it clear once again - although it is already in the text - that only the law that is truly in line with the principles of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights is of course applied in the member states, because this is a matter of course for us. it can't be otherwise! no court in the union would apply any other law in any way. i cannot imagine that at all, and that is of course being clarified.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make two brief comments. i would ask the commissioner to take the concerns that are being voiced today to the ministers of the interior. we hear that pnr is a crime-fighting tool. yes, many people in this parliament agree. but the question that moves us is whether it is proportional. we store millions, billions of data over ten years for maybe one, two, ten, twenty cases. is that proportionate? that is the concern that moves us all. secondly, i do not understand why we are talking about a european pnr system. the proposal on the table says that we should set up 27 national pnr systems and not a european pnr system. if the member states so badly need this tool to combat crime, then we say to the ministers of the interior: go to your national parliament, discuss it there and implement it there! common data standards are welcome to talk about but a mandatory requirement of the home affairs council?! i personally hear that the home ministers cannot get this through at home, at national level, and so they go through the council. we'll have to say no.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament is giving the right signal in times of crisis by approving the erasmus mundus programme. the european union is a great example of a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a great european society, a world in which the whole of europe is at the centre of the world. the budget of eur 950 million for the period seems modest, however. compared with the hundreds of billions now being spent on the failure of bank managers, this is rather modest. the approach of excellence which underpinned the first stage of the programme is to be continued. the new programme also aims to promote intercultural understanding and cooperation with third countries and to promote their development in the field of higher education. the main new features compared with the first initiative are the inclusion of joint doctoral programmes, increased scholarships and more intensive structural cooperation with universities in third countries. progress is being made in all three areas. master's and doctoral programmes aim to promote the excellence of european higher education in the world. there's progress here too. the higher cost for students from third countries is taken into account and, thanks to the negotiating skills of our rapporteur, the essential criteria which we as a parliament wanted to introduce into erasmus mundus iii have been improved. our objectives were endorsed by the council: geographical balance, gender balance, reducing visa barriers. we have succeeded in this with the youth programme, and we must succeed in this with erasmus.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. equal treatment is a fundamental principle of the european union. member states must be able to ensure that this equal treatment is actually enforced on the ground. the court has put us in a very difficult position here. i cannot conceal - and it is well known - that the commission has been a stickler in at least one case. the right to strike and collective bargaining cannot be questioned. we have to act! the court's decision has painted such a negative picture of europe that many people are turning away. we can't just stand by and watch. if you want to promote greater mobility in europe, you have to ensure that there is equal treatment on the ground. the european court of justice has really done us a disservice here, and social europe has suffered as a result. in this situation, we must act as legislators, because the court of justice has also revealed a weakness in the posting of workers directive. it has shown that there is a problem when workers are service providers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. equal pay for equal work at the same place this principle must be guaranteed. it has been shown that, according to the interpretation of the court of justice, the posting of workers directive no longer ensures this. we need the revision to restore the credibility of europe, because without this project we cannot campaign. otherwise we have the problem that the freedom of the internal market and equal treatment on the ground will be compromised. mr cocilovo has said it: it cannot be that competition is not quality competition but competition based on social dumping. we must act! i would like to say again to the house that it is absolutely essential that the andersson report be adopted in this way. it is a very concrete strategy for action, as we are doing with the revision of the posting of workers directive. the principle of equal treatment is a principle of social europe. we are elected to restore this social europe, and that is why we must accept the report!
i have to say, madam president, i would first like to warn against the spirit of a statement we heard a few minutes ago that foreigners are flooding our labour market. secondly, i would have liked a clearer, more unambiguous report from the committee on employment and social affairs. confidence in the social binding power of the european union can only be achieved if fundamental social rights are defined as primary european law. we should send a stronger signal to the council, the commission, the member states and the european union, and not be satisfied with simply demanding a balance between fundamental rights and freedom of movement in the internal market. it doesn't change anything! fundamental social rights are human rights, just like freedoms, and they must not be restricted by the free movement of people within the internal market. it is about defending and improving the european social model and it is high time that a social progress clause is introduced as a binding protocol to the existing eu treaties. it is time to change the posting of workers directive so that wage and minimum standards requirements cannot be limited to minimum requirements.
i have to say, madam president, one of the most notable achievements of the european parliament is the amendment of the bolkestein directive by replacing the country of origin principle with the service principle. the workers need fair working conditions, the companies, especially the smes, need protection against cheap competition which threatens their existence. let us make sure that the result is secured in the long term! there is doubt about this - this is what the debate has just shown - because of the recent case law in the viking, laval and rüffert cases. is it true that the ecj values freedom to provide services more highly than the protection of workers? does he subordinate the right to strike to the right to freedom of movement? the commission's role is to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its powers in a democratic manner. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the provisions of the directive are applied in practice. it is the necessary balance between safeguarding freedom of movement and protecting workers. the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place must not be weakened. working conditions above the minimum level do not impede competition and collective bargaining must not be restricted in any case. we need a clear rejection of all social dumping and we need a clear rejection of attempts to create letterbox companies which are designed to prevent minimum standards of pay and working conditions. social principles must not be subordinated to economic freedoms. it is only when there is equality in the european union that we will be able to get the much-needed support for the concept of the social market economy among entrepreneurs and smes.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me say a few words about that. the free movement of persons is one of the great achievements of the european union. but we must also make it clear - and in some countries where standards are lower, this will soon be understood, because they will raise standards there - that free movement must not lead to the elimination of socially developed standards in normal competition. it cannot be that europe means abolishing long-established social and workers' rights. that is why we should make it clear that this has never been our policy and that this policy should never be enforced. if a job is done in a country, there must be the same money for the same job. there can be no class society where foreign workers work for less money. this is unfair to both sides. that is why we should make this clear.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the rapporteur and you for the debate that has been opened, because it is a debate on a subject that is extremely sensitive and profound. i think there were a lot of arguments that could be argued with, and there were a lot of arguments that were contradictory. this, among other things, underlines the importance and difficulty of this debate. i want to highlight a few basic ideas. first, the luxembourg court did not weaken or attack fundamental rights by its judgments. none of this is true. i would also point out that the luxembourg court, in particular by its case-law, has for the first time established that the right to strike is a fundamental right. this has not been formulated in the case law and in our legal system. i would also like to note that the debate has often been dominated by the idea that the posting of workers is a matter between new and old countries. i note that the federal republic of germany is sending the largest number of workers. the second country that sends out the most workers is poland, the third country in this row is belgium, the fourth is portugal. so the idea that this is a movement from east to west, from new to old, is not true. nor is the idea that the broadcast is implicitly social dumping true. i would also like to point out that the commission's basic policy is to reject and effectively oppose all forms of dumping, including social dumping. similarly, it is the commission's policy to safeguard social standards that have been achieved, and not to weaken them under any pretext and by any technique. i would also point out that in the debate which opened at the seminar, the majority of the member states concerned by the laval, rüffert and rüffert judgments did not consider that it was appropriate to amend the directive. the vast majority of them seek solutions in the application of national law, and many of them have gone very far in this application. i would like to say to denmark, luxembourg, i would also like to say that according to the information i have from sweden, a rather significant decision should be taken in about 15 or 14 days, the question is being discussed very thoroughly and very consistently between the social partners and the government. i would also like to point out, however small, that the so-called 'post office box' companies are not a manifestation of the posting of workers or of free movement. you find hundreds of these cases within the internal market of individual countries, and that's an open question in my view. the other very important point i wish to make is that the judgments of the luxembourg court so far are a response to the question referred for a preliminary ruling. the final decision is with the national courts and national judicial authorities. ladies and gentlemen, i think it's absolutely necessary to emphasize that this is a very substantial issue. the commission is following it from the points of view we have discussed and is ready to take all the steps that will make it possible to resolve this situation and to find the appropriate consensus, because, as i would like to stress again, the prevailing line was not clear in this debate either. we have a lot of work to do, and let me stress that the role of the social partners in this regard is crucial.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 21 october 2008. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the report of the european council and the commission statement on the european council meeting of 15 and 16 october 2008.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we saw a picture this weekend that was indeed a historical picture. we have seen the worst president in the history of the united states, framed by an effective president of the european union and the president of the european commission, who is on the way to becoming a sensible politician in the european single market. it is a historic moment indeed and a great opportunity for europe to take its rightful place in international politics. the policy of the bush administration, of total deregulation of world markets, of total laissez-faire by anyone in any place with any measure, has failed, and europe has the chance to fill the vacuum that has arisen by a new, more social economic order in europe and in the world. this is the task before us, and it is indeed historic. (applause from the centre) the first steps, mr sarkozy, are good. you have taken the measures necessary in the crisis and that is why our group supports you on this matter. i do not want to hide the fact that we are impressed by the determination that you and - i want to say this explicitly - mr barroso personally, but not his commission, have shown. we must, when i speak of seizing opportunities, put a phrase at the beginning of the actions that are necessary now: never again! what happened in those markets must not happen again. the disaster on the international financial markets, the crisis in the real economy which it has triggered, must come to an end. and to stop it from happening again, we need new rules. we need these new rules from you too, mr barroso. my colleague poul nyrup rasmussen will be describing in detail what we expect from you. we are waiting for the proposals you have just announced by the end of the year, because we have to act quickly. we don't have much time! if we act quickly, the focus will be on rules, and not just rules for banks, but we need rules for hedge funds and for private equity. we decided that here a few weeks ago by a great deal of unanimity. now i have heard social democratic speeches: nicolas sarkozy, longtime head of the ump, conservative president of france, speaks like a sincere european socialist! (applause from the centre) josé manuel durão barroso, in a late echo of his trotskyist, maoist past, speaks like a true leftist! and joseph daul, if i listen to him, that is pure social democracy! pse membership forms are at the entrance! (laughter) but i'll read you a quote. (interruption by the police) in recent decades, some of our member states and the european union as a whole have become too over-regulated and isolated. this over-regulation is undermining our competitiveness! this is the 2006 manifesto of the european people's party, signed by nicolas sarkozy, josé manuel durão barroso and joseph daul. you're late, my friends! but thank god you're coming! (applause from the centre) (interruption: pöttering also!) i wonder, when i discuss this with you, where do your speeches leave the little people in the european union? who is talking about the taxpayers, who are now being saddled with the risks of this disaster? who is talking about the purchasing power we need to stimulate the internal market again? we are entering a phase of recession risk, if we are not already in recession. we need more purchasing power! we need not only a social umbrella for the banks, but above all risk protection for the little people, because if what we are planning here goes wrong - and there is no alternative - then the little people in the european union, the workers, will pay first and foremost. that is why we want more rules, more controls and, by the way, government protection to protect these small people in the same way as we do for the big banks. this is the central demand, above all in the member states. (applause from the centre) and i would like to quote another quote: "the state must withdraw from economic and social policy". angela merkel at the cdu party congress in 2000. no, the state does not have to retreat, it has to intervene more, control more in the economy. thank you to josé manuel durão barroso and nicolas sarkozy for saying: yes, we need more rules, we don't need less rules, we need more control, we don't need less control! you're on the right track. so i 'll tell you something . you are also on the right track if you do not allow - and we support you - that the climate package, which can create jobs and enable sustainable economies, is used in the current situation against the financial crisis. jean-claude juncker was right when he said: the financial crisis will pass, but the climate crisis will remain, unfortunately! that's why it's a mistake to play one against the other. but you are right, mr sarkozy, that too must be resolved on the basis of mutual solidarity between the strong and the weak and the cooperation of everyone here in parliament and in the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you very much - and you too, mr president - for giving me one more minute. the socialist group has made a clear statement: in this crisis, the values for which we have never had a majority in this parliament because you have prevented them are on the agenda. if you agree now, you've finally learned, but admit that it was your mistakes, above all your mistakes, that have led to us not having the rules we need! (applause from the left, protest from the right)
president of the council. - mr. president daul, thank you for your support. the epp has always believed in a europe that protects. you yourself have been engaged in dialogue with our russian neighbours. it was a visionary position. russia has the energy, europe has the technology. russia faces a considerable demographic problem, as it loses about 700,000 inhabitants a year, in an area twice the size of the united states of america. i do not see russia as a determined opponent of europe. i believe, on the contrary, that in the future we must lay the foundations for a common economic area between russia and the european union, which would be the best way of getting them to adopt the values of respect for human rights and democracy that we have in europe. i would add, mr president daul, that we wanted to support the banks to protect savers. there were several strategies, a number of countries -- i'll come back to that -- wanted to protect and guarantee the products of the banks. i fought for the protection and guarantee of the banks so that they could then do their job. and the support of your group has been crucial to us. i would like to conclude by saying that your call for ratification of lisbon is perfectly correct. and, by the way, it's not aggressive towards anyone to ask that you be consistent. we cannot say that we did not vote because we were afraid of losing a commissioner and, by his refusal, pushing for the maintenance of a treaty which provides for the reduction of the size of the commission. i respect all opinions, but i can't agree with inconsistencies. we cannot be the most willing to call for the enlargement of europe and at the same time prevent europe from establishing institutions for enlargement. we can see how much it cost europe to expand without thinking about deepening. let's not make the same mistakes again. mr president, i am speaking as a european socialist. maybe, but you must admit that you don't sound like a french socialist! (applause) i would like to thank frankly, in the socialist schism, i choose martin schulz, without regret or remorse. i would like to say one thing about this, however, and that is the whole point of europe: to force us to compromise. that is what we are doing, president schulz and i. europe, its institutions, its policies will one day be - whatever happens, it is the law of alternation - adopted and applied by governments of the left or the right. we cannot, and this is the greatness of it, reduce the european ideal to the question of left or right. fortunately, mr president, people of your calibre are able to recognize that others who are not members of your political family are not necessarily wrong because they are not members of your political family. and i would also like to say to you, mr president, and to your group, that as president of the council, even though my party loyalty is to the epp group, i have greatly appreciated the socialist group's sense of responsibility when it came to taking a number of directions. to return europe to the left-right debate alone, even if there is such a debate, is a sin against the european compromise, against the european ideal. i therefore see no resignation on your part when you support the presidency, nor any resignation on my part when i appreciate the support of the socialist group in the european parliament. i'd like to go even further. president schulz says this is a historic task. he's right, you know. he says, as president daul says, that the crisis can be an opportunity, i mean an opportunity. you're right about that. and when you say, "never again!" you're right again. it is not a question of christian-democrats for one or social-democrats for the other. it's a matter of common sense. what brought us here? but i would disagree with the view that for the last 30 years only the right-wing governments have been wrong, while the left-wing governments have always been right. it would be a painful re-reading of history for both sides. as for the rest, as regards what you said about mrs merkel, i understood that there were elections in germany and i will therefore bring the matter back to an electoral forum. i myself have been fortunate to have the solidarity and friendship of angela merkel, and i would like to pay tribute again to her actions when she was president. the six-month presidencies are part of a continuum. i have benefited from the work of my predecessors, most notably mrs merkel. mr. watson, i appreciate you and your ideas very much, but even if you can read as a toddler and apparently without glasses, then let's just say that on that day, you missed them because what does the text say? the text explicitly refers to the conclusions of the european councils of march 2007 and march 2008. and what do these two council decisions say? the climate package will be adopted in co-decision with the european parliament. there is a continuum of texts, mr president watson. so what did i want to do? maybe it was a mistake. the european councils publishing fifty-page communiqués that nobody reads, i said: 'that's it!' and so i proposed an eight-page statement. and if you want to stick to a shorter communiqué, you should not follow the usual practice of repeating the statements of the previous councils to hide the absence of decisions by the present councils. and so i think that the codecision was in the reference to these two councils. you want me to confirm it. i would be happy to confirm it, but i want to go further, mr president watson. in this matter of the energy-climate package, i know, i insist and i sign, that we will need the european parliament's commitment very much to get it. but i just wanted to do one thing in october, and that was to try to preserve the consensus of the european council, because you will agree that if i had come to the european parliament with a decision of the european council that says that in any case we should not agree before december, you would have said to me, quite rightly, 'you have broken what the councils of 2007 and 2008 had decided.' i have not called into question the energy and climate package, but i have made a strong commitment to it, and i have not called into question the codecision procedure, but i am calling for it! i have, moreover, together with president barroso, told our colleagues in the european council. mr cohn-bendit, look, you are in great shape! you said "yes" five times and "no" twice. i've been used to a less than favorable crew! frankly, your support for the determination and a number of the actions of the presidency is useful. i would also like to say to you, mr cohn-bendit, that i think that a commission presidency, like a council presidency, committed as they are to defending the energy-climate package, deserves the support of the greens. we do not agree on everything, but you greens are not going to fight a commission presidency and a council presidency that are totally committed to adopting the energy-climate package! i wish we could go a little further together. you are chosen, i am chosen, and i'm not ashamed to admit that if i need you, you need me, too. maybe it's more painful for you than it is for me, but that's the way it is. in fact, you called me in for my self-criticism. you're right, i do need it. i'm not the only one! (laughter and applause) finally, on the institutional coup, i give the same answer as to president watson. president cohn-bendit won't hold it against me. on the other hand, can this crisis and environmental protection be an opportunity for growth? i think you're absolutely right. you call it green growth, i call it sustainable growth, that's indisputable. and i would like to say that the green bonus on cars has demonstrated this. france has one of the only automobile markets that is not shrinking. why would you do that? because thanks to the green bonus, we were able to sell more clean cars than dirty cars. the word "clean car" may shock the greens, but for us it is extraordinarily important. the environmental package, which i hope will be voted unanimously in france, including by the socialists, shows that france is strongly committed to this direction. i really believe that it would be a historic mistake for europe not to be at the meeting of the energy-climate package. mrs. muscardini, thank you for your support. you mentioned the immigration pact, and you were right, because we don't talk much about trains arriving on time. but it is an extraordinary novelty for europe that we have agreed to a pact at twenty-seven. so, of course, there are still ambiguities. of course, we could have wished for more, but still! who would have thought that all of you here would have the wisdom, with the states, to accept a pact for european immigration a few months before a european election? and believe me, this is the only way to prevent the extremes in each of our countries from taking up a subject worthy of intelligence, humanity and firmness. so, mrs. muscardini, thank you for bringing this up. mr. wurtz, you said we don't share the same diagnosis. that's right! but your intervention, as always, is very measured in form, very excessive in substance. things, mr. wurtz, are no less shocking because they are said softly! it's not the shape that counts, it's the substance. as much as i am sure that capitalism must be rebuilt, i can tell you, mr wurtz, that never has capitalism done so much damage to society, democracy and the environment as the collectivist system that you have supported for so many years. the great ecological disasters, mr wurtz - listen to daniel cohn-bendit when he speaks of self-criticism! - the great ecological disasters were not the result of the market economy but of the collectivist system. the social disasters, mr wurtz, were the result of a collectivist system and, mr wurtz, the collectivist system made the berlin wall prosper, millions of people suffered in their flesh from the lack of freedom... so i remain committed to the market economy, i remain committed to free trade, i remain committed to the values of capitalism, but not to the betrayal of capitalism! (applause) i would like to thank and we could take stock of the 20th century, you and i, and you can be sure that this stock is not in favour of the ideas that you have loyally followed for decades. you ask me to wake up, i'm afraid, mr. wurtz, out of friendship, to advise you not to think too much about what happened in the 20th century, because sincere men like you would see while they were accompanying systems far removed from their youthful ideal. mr. nigel farage, i didn't have a warrant, that's for sure. but frankly, when the russian troops came back to georgia, they didn't have a warrant either. (applause) i would like to thank you are one of those who have for years denounced this europe for lacking political will. i had a choice: ask everyone else and do nothing, or do something and check with everyone else to see if they agreed. i preferred the action. finally, mr farage, a europe that looks like what you wanted. well, that's me, that's not good! but in the end it was europe you were calling for! i would add that democratically, i made sure, with bernard kouchner, that the european council validated the decisions we had been called upon to take. but one last point. when the irish - and i am not judging, the crisis was so severe - took the decision to guarantee all the proceeds of their banks, except for european banks and subsidiaries, fortunately the commission was behind to make up for it! what happened? what happened? it's the whole city that, in 24 hours, found itself short of cash. because, of course, the cash left the city and went to the banks, which were guaranteed by the irish state which, all of a sudden, decided to guarantee 200% of its gdp! you see, we need each other. because if we had not coordinated our response, everyone would have been caught in a "who guarantees more" spiral, and the money of the savers would have gone to the country that guarantees more at the expense of the others! and you defend the united kingdom, well, it was europe that restored the balance of the city! it is not just the uk! (applause) finally, mr gollnisch, you are the only people in the world who think that europe is useless. either the world is wrong and you're right, or both! i'm afraid once again, it's the other one! (applause from the left)
president of the commission. - mr president, we have already had some interesting ideological debates. i do not think that this is the time to engage in this debate. but i think we'll have time... right now, i'm more focused on immediate, emergency responses to the crisis. anyway, i'd like to say the following: our analysis of the causes of this crisis clearly shows that there have been regulatory failures, particularly in the united states. some parts of this market were unregulated, and that was the trigger for the crisis. but our analysis also shows that the root cause of this crisis is probably linked to some fundamental imbalances that exist in the us economy and also in the global economy. the truth -- as many economists have pointed out and continue to point out -- is that it would be hard to sustain a level of public debt like we have in the united states, and that is precisely one of the nations with the most debt that consumes the most, while those with the most reserves are the ones that consume the least. there are fundamental problems in terms of imbalances in public debt, public deficits. i could simplify by saying that if the united states of america had a stability and growth pact, we might not have had this financial crisis. because when there are strong fundamentals in macroeconomic terms, we are much more likely to withstand these problems of scarcity, of failure, of regulation. it is true that there have also been regulatory problems. not because the financial market is unregulated, quite the contrary! of all the sectors of the economy, it is probably the most regulated, including in the united states. it is not because in europe we have no regulation, on the contrary, we have a lot of regulation in this sector. but it is true that there have been failures in the supervisory mechanisms which are - let us remember - essentially national systems. this is an area where the european commission or the european central bank do not really have competence. these are essentially national supervisory mechanisms. and it is true that we must see what can be done from a legislative point of view. i would like to commend the work of the european parliament. it is true that the european parliament has been producing excellent reports on some of these issues for many years now, and we are ready to work with you. but we must also understand that just as we say "no man is an island", "no institution is an island"! the commission is also working with parliament and the council on these issues. let us be absolutely clear, a few weeks ago - not years, not months - a few weeks ago, it would not have been possible to have changes in some of these rules because there were - you know very well - member states who were fundamentally opposed to it. that's the truth! so we have to understand that now we have real conditions to make some changes, i hope, consensual, not only for reform in europe but also for europe to be able to propose comprehensive reforms in the financial system. the second question concerns the 'climate change package' and i would like to thank you, members, for your speeches and support. first of all on the institutional question - i think president sarkozy has already made this very clear, but let me say this on behalf of the commission - we do not confuse respect for the well-established decision-making procedures, including the co-decision and the central role of the european parliament, with the need for a strong consensus between member states on a package as important as the climate and energy package. these two aspects are not incompatible or contradictory, but complementary. i can assure you that we, together with the presidency, will work actively and tirelessly to find an ambitious but balanced compromise with your parliament. i must also be very frank with you here, and i can tell you that if it were not for the leadership of president sarkozy - i think i can say this - and the contribution of the commission, we would not have had the consensus in this european council to maintain the objectives we adopted a year ago. the truth is that in the face of a financial situation like the one we're in, naturally, i would say, governments are becoming more defensive, more cautious. they may want to retreat to some less ambitious positions. and this is a job we have to do together, because i do believe that it would be dramatic for europe to abandon the ambition it has set for the fight against climate change. that would be dramatic because, precisely, the big objection that some have to the package is that we would make a sacrifice without the others making a sacrifice. but if we want others to come along too, we must not show any signs of diminishing ambition at this stage! it is precisely now that we must maintain the 'three times twenty' objectives we set last year. and that's why the message has to be very strong. i would like to congratulate not only president sarkozy but also all the members of the european council, and i would also like to leave a word of appreciation to chancellor angela merkel. it was under his presidency, a year ago, that we adopted these objectives and i hope that now we will not 'water down' our level of ambition. i can also say, you know, it's interesting, mr. schulz! i can only agree with what has just been said. i really believe that we can have political differences and different ideologies, but i really believe -- especially in a situation like the one we're living in now -- that we need to unite rather than divide. i really believe that no political force in this chamber can claim a monopoly on european ideas. throughout the history of europe, the contribution of the christian democrats, the socialists, the liberals, others from the right, the left and the centre have been instrumental in building up political europe. i understand the political debate and i do not want to diminish the importance of the ideological debate, but i still believe that in a situation like the one we are in, it would be useful for all those who believe in the ideals of europe and who think that europe must play an increasingly stronger role in the world to be able to establish a consensus platform. because the world - not just the europeans - but the world is looking to europe to propose certain solutions. for my part, you can rest assured that it is in this spirit of consensus - of course, respecting the different political forces, i dare say above the different positions of the parties - that we can work together, the three institutions - commission, parliament and council - to give more strength to our europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this morning it was rightly noted that the european union has shown its ability to act in two major crises, to inspire confidence in the world and in its role, to regain the confidence of its citizens, and that this is not least due to the president-in-office of the council. mr president, you have every right to take credit for this. of course, it is easy to imagine that president sarkozy would have acted with energy and imagination even without the hat of the president of the council, but he is president of the council and that is why his actions benefit the european union. and that's a good thing. it is a good thing to be aware of the fact that he is now president of the council and that we should not make the european union's ability to cope with crises dependent on luck. that means we need the lisbon treaty. this is one more argument for this treaty to come into force, and i am convinced that there is a large majority in this parliament in favour of this treaty. we have not said so loudly and clearly for reasons of restraint, but i think it is time to say that this parliament is behind the lisbon treaty and it would be good if it succeeded in putting it into effect before the european elections. it's not in our hands, but i think it's our position. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr schulz, what a simple world view, obviously due to the election campaign! they know very well that the level of prosperity that we have in europe, which is still unusual for large parts of the world, the high level of social security, the unprecedented level of environmental protection, the technological progress that has been associated with it and, last but not least, the level of personal freedom that has been associated with all these achievements, have been built on the basis of the social market economy and not on the basis of socialist ideas. we want to keep that in mind. and it's not the system that's failed, but some of its actors, and they need to be held accountable. we need new rules for that. a note on the climate package. i would like to stress for the group that the objectives are unquestionable, but we must discuss the methods. at a time when emissions trading will require, according to commission calculations, between eur 70 and 90 billion a year to be raised by those concerned, it cannot be seriously assumed that this whole structure would not be affected by the financial crisis and the crisis of the real economy. that is why we say that we are fully committed to the objectives, but i think it is appropriate to consider this dossier carefully and thoroughly so that we do not make any legislative mistakes and that we involve above all those affected. we need time to do that, and we should take it.
mr president, i do not know what rule in our rules of procedure gives me the right to speak, but thank you very much for giving me the floor. mr president of the republic, i had the impression that you were speaking here as president of the european council. i have answered as the chairman of a group in the european parliament. i didn't feel like i was talking to the president of the french republic. otherwise, i can assure you that my speech would have been totally different, because there is no difference between my french socialist comrades and myself.
president of the council. - mr president, first of all it was quite normal for president martin schulz to respond. i thought he was doing it for personal reasons. dear martin, if i have offended you by comparing you to a french socialist, i am sorry. (applause) i would like to thank in my mind, it was not unseemly, but i readily admit that what counts is the opinion of the one who receives it. so, mr president, i withdraw my statement. mr schulz is also capable of speaking like a french socialist. dear mr. hartmut nassauer, thank you for your support. yes, we need the lisbon treaty and, i say this as i think it, i will fight until the last minute of the french presidency to convince europe of the need to equip itself with the institutions of the 21st century. a politician is someone who takes responsibility. i supported the lisbon process. i will fight to see this lisbon process through to the end, and i repeat: if it is not lisbon, it will be nice, and if it is nice, it will be closure to further enlargements, which would be deeply regrettable. so let each one of us shoulder his own responsibility! i have noted, mr nassauer, that the climate package needs to be worked on. i am fully aware of this, but we must not give up our ambitions because my belief is that compromise is easier to find for a big ambition than for a small one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. beware of this danger too! mr. robert goebbels, you speak of plumbing and architecture. well, i am counting on luxembourg's support for a profound rethinking of the financial architecture outside our continent and within our continent. both of you! but, sir, that's not a criticism, much less an attack, it's just a remark. as mrs de sarnez has very well said, we cannot fight against certain practices outside our continent and tolerate them on our continent. that's all i've got! let those who feel they are targeted assume! i'm not aiming at anyone. i wouldn't allow it. mrs de sarnez, thank you for pointing out that we made the right decisions. i want to say on a personal basis that i support your proposal for a european regulator. it's obvious! why can't we do it right now? because a number of smaller countries think that by defending their own regulatory system they are defending their country's identity. that's not a reproach. so what i believe, mrs de sarnez, is that when we arrive we will need a european regulator and that between that arrival and the present situation we must at least set up a coordination of european regulators. that is the path we are proposing with the commission. i think that's the only realistic way, because if we don't, we're gonna go into a tailspin. you also spoke of the need for european economic governance and a european economic plan. you're right, i know. but i would like to say, in connection with your speech, that i am wrong about what you are saying, not you, but those who say that any european economic initiative is equivalent to an increase in deficits. that's enough! we have the right to speak freely. we can be in favour of a european economic policy without being in favour of an increase in deficits. and the coordination of european policies does not require a boost simply by demand. let us not - i do not say this to you - make the same intentional lawsuits against each other as were made at the time against those who dared to have an opinion on monetary policy. we could have had a different monetary policy without calling into question the independence of the ecb. i say that we can be in favour of a european structural economic policy without being in favour of increasing deficits. and let no one say, "there are the virtuous and the foolish". no, you can't! the european debate, it must be a debate and no one has the truth. and we must at times get rid of - yes, perhaps this is the only point on which i agree with mr de villiers! - we must at times get rid of dogmas which have done a great deal of damage to the idea of europe and dogmas which are all the more illegitimate because, very often, they were not the product of decisions by democratic bodies and therefore legitimate. the european ideal which i hold is strong enough for european democracy to be a true democracy. the single-mindedness, the dogmas, the habits, the conservatism have done a lot of harm and i shall have the opportunity to say a little more about that on another matter. mr konrad szymański, i would like to say that i fully understand the problems facing poland, particularly the fact that the polish economy is 95% dependent on coal. but i think that poland needs europe to modernise its mining industry and that we can easily reach agreements with poland on clean coal. and to modernize this mining industry, poland will need all of europe. we need poland, poland needs europe. it is on this basis that we will try, with mr barroso, to find a compromise with our polish friends, our hungarian friends and a number of those who are concerned about their growth. mr de villiers, yes, i have therefore challenged dogmas because i believe in pragmatism. but really, do not give the lisbon treaty the wrong impression that it does not have. i am well aware that the lisbon treaty is not a marvel and a perfection. but, mr. de villiers, except in the vendée, perfection is not of this world! i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. enough with the ideal treaty, which you know perfectly well will never exist! the europeans are pragmatic, common sense people who prefer an imperfect treaty which improves the situation to a perfect treaty which will never exist, because there will never be an agreement in the service of this virtual idea. this is europe! progress every day, because we wanted to put an end to the war, because we want to create a democratic space and i believe, mr de villiers, that your intelligence should be put to the service of another battle than that of finding an illusory enemy, whereas we can see that in the current crisis europeans have understood that being together is an asset and not a weakness. and even with all the strength you have, the talent that is yours, alone in the face of this financial crisis, you would be nothing! it is better to have a good compromise from all of europe than to be sure that one is right in one's own corner. so, on the question of "free hands", my dear philippe de villiers, my answer is valid for you, it is the answer of a free man, including in french political debates. and i think that the most important thing for us is to stop talking nonsense and i think that good compromises are made by sincere people who go to the end of their ideas, that the fault of the european political debate is the lack of ideas, which has struck us all, all political families mixed up, as if stunned by the idea of bringing something new. europe has advanced because at one point women and men have opened up new territories. and the self-criticism that was called for, we should all do it. for a long time, europe has been a place of immobility. we followed the founders, but we didn't do what they did, we didn't open up new roads, we didn't bring new ideas. and i believe deeply that where we are, we need to be imaginative. the worst risk is not to take action today and not to be bold in a completely new situation. mr sergej kozlík, transparency is absolutely necessary. the question of the rating agencies: i think the attitude of the rating agencies was the most scandalous fact in the crisis. some agencies allowed themselves to give a product a triple a on friday and a triple b on monday! we cannot continue with the monopoly of three rating agencies, most of them american. the question of rating agencies, their independence from certain groups, the presence of a european rating agency is certainly one of the key issues of the first summit on future regulation. i would also like to say to you, on competition - all the speakers have spoken about competition - that i believe in competition, but i am tired of people wanting to make competition an end when competition is only a means. competition is a means of growth. competition is not an end in itself and i will fight to make this part of the new european policy! i believe in freedom, i believe in free trade, i believe that protectionism must be rejected but competition must be put at the service of growth. and competition as the only goal, as an end in itself, is a mistake. i thought that before the crisis, i still think that after the crisis. mr garcía-margallo, yes, we need a new bretton woods because, as president joseph daul and president schulz have said, if we are to put up with the rigors, there is no point in holding an international summit. if it's to change half the system, it's not worth it. so you mentioned accounting standards. but look at our banks! first, the dictatorship of american accounting rules is no longer tolerable. secondly, banks can lend out in proportion to their own capital and assets. if we value assets on a market-to-market basis, on the basis of a market which no longer exists because it has been totally destabilised, we impoverish the banks, which consequently do even less of their job. the question of changing accounting standards raised by the president of the commission had our full support, it was urgent. i would also like to congratulate the european parliament on its ability to react and to vote for this change, since we were involved in the codecision process with astonishing speed, which was welcomed by the european council, unanimously. mr. rasmussen, could we have avoided the crisis? we have to agree on the causes first. what happened? what happened? the united states of america, our ally, our friend, has been living beyond its means for three decades. the federal reserve bank had a monetary policy that was to make interest rates extraordinarily low, so to make liquidity available to anyone who wanted to borrow. and for the last 20 or 30 years, we have been presented with the colossal debts of the world's leading power! and now it's up to the whole world to pay those debts! from that point on, the american people must take responsibility, bear the consequences, with us. but i don't see how we could have told them to stop that strategy on our own! i would add that a number of our banks have stopped doing their job. the job of a bank is to lend to an individual, to lend to a business, to accompany the individual in the development of his family, the business, in the development of his project, and to earn money after a certain time. our banks have developed into what they call market rooms, which are the place of speculation, and it was considered that for years it was easier to make money by speculating than by investing. i'd like to add that the risk-sharing has made all our banks stand. there are 8,000 banks in europe, 44 of which are international. if we had taken responsibility for the failure of a bank as the americans did with lehman brothers, the whole system would have collapsed. i do not know whether we could have avoided the crisis, mr rasmussen, but i think that if we had not reacted as we did, the crisis would have overwhelmed us. and that's something i believe deeply in. you said you need proposals before christmas. it's not until christmas, but mid-november. and i intend, with president barroso, to take initiatives so that we europeans go to this summit with one voice and try, mr rasmussen, something else: not to agree on the lowest common denominator, but on the highest, because any consensus carries the risk that to bring everyone into agreement artificially, we lower our ambitions. the danger is here. i would like us to keep our ambitions, not to lower them too much, but to have a single message. i'm not backing down on the hedge funds, i told you. they need to be regulated. no financial institution, private or public, should be exempt from regulation. mrs annemie neyts-uyttebroeck, will the talks with russia continue whatever happens? but no, you're not! but look, put yourself in our shoes. russia has stopped its tanks 40 km from tbilisi as we europeans have asked. russia has withdrawn its troops from the borders that were in place before the crisis of august 8th. russia has allowed observers to deploy, including european observers, and russia, more or less unwillingly, is going to the geneva talks. if the eu-russia summit is suspended, who will understand anything about european politics? no one is! i would add that we took the precaution, together with president barroso, not to suspend but to postpone. what's the difference? if we had taken the decision to suspend, it would have taken a unanimous decision of the european council to resume, and i think that would have been politically embarrassing. the decision to postpone allows us to resume without expressing any unnecessary complacency. so i think this strategy is a cool strategy, a calm strategy, a lucid strategy. i think that there was no other way to do it and i remain convinced that russia will be a partner with whom we can have a dialogue, with whom we can be frank, but we will make it change if we have a dialogue. if we do not have dialogue, we will create a feeling of being surrounded and our ideas will have less influence. that is the certainty i have, but, of course, it can be contradicted by future events. it is then that we must take responsibility. mr wojciechowski, it is not for the president of the council to decide who represents poland! poland had two seats on the european council. it is up to poland to decide who occupies them. you can imagine a europe where the president of the european council would say: 'no, you are not going back, but you are going back!' but what is this europe! there is a president in poland - obviously you do not support him - there is a prime minister in poland, it is up to them to behave as statesmen, as europeans, to decide what is the representation of poland. finally, we got away with it and i will have the opportunity to go to poland at the beginning of december and tell the polish president: 'you must keep your promise. your promise is to sign the lisbon treaty which has been ratified by your parliament. we must keep that promise". that's the credibility of a statesman and a politician. (applause) i would like to thank i believe enough in poland's importance in europe to say so without offending anyone. mr hans-peter martin, we need a bold european democracy. i know your struggle, your fight against corruption and for a functioning democracy. you are absolutely right, but i can tell you that president barroso has shown courage. in fact, there are some in this house who think that i am travelling without a warrant. if i had to wait for a warrant to move, notice, i would move less often! mrs. sudre, thank you for your support. europe now exists and you are absolutely right: the status quo is not an option. and i believe that it can bring us all together. the worst thing would be that once the turbulence passes, we'll start again as if nothing had happened. that would be the end of the european ideal. we have no right to let this opportunity pass. so some wonder, why a summit so quickly? for that. because we thought that if we waited too long, and especially the election of the new american president, the situation could continue to worsen without having the answer. or that things get better and by then, next spring, everyone else would have forgotten and we wouldn't have the changes. the summit, or at least the first one, had to be held in november, regardless of the american calendar. i think i have answered all the speakers. i am also bound by the timetable of the presidency and the press conference i have to give with the president of the commission and the president of the european parliament. i would like to apologise to the other speakers if i do not answer everyone. not that i don't want to, of course, but i've been called upon to observe the order of the day. i am trying to do that as best i can and i will of course have the opportunity to come back to your parliament by december, if you wish, to answer the questions of each speaker in more detail.
mr president of the european council, both the speeches and the applause now make it clear that you have the support of the european parliament.
i have to say, madam president, i too would have preferred to speak directly to mr sarkozy and mr barroso, particularly because i wanted to address the president of the commission, because we have been quite unsuccessful with some commissioners in recent years. the citizens expect europe to be concerned with the big things and not with the little things. mr schulz, who has just left the chamber, has thrown all the conservatives into one pot. the people do not want to be left to fend for themselves in small matters, but to have more freedom of regulation for small and mediumsized enterprises, for citizens, and for major issues. i would stress that the european parliament asked the commission in 2003 to submit a proposal on credit rating agencies. surprisingly, the word hedge fund has become familiar to the commission - certainly not to all commissioners - and the president of the commission is now looking into the subject. mr schulz has made it quite easy for himself to say that it is up to the conservatives alone. it was the council that for years prevented progress in the area of supervision! that was finance minister eichel and steinbrück! i just want to remind you: the one who regularly put the brakes on at european level - i ask the socialists to tell their chairman - was mr koch-weser, who has now landed relatively well in the deutsche bank building. we expect that in future europe will bring its values and priorities to financial regulation, i.e. sustainability not just risk maximisation with corresponding return maximisation , i.e. orientation towards the principles as a medium-sized company would do. this is something we have to bring into the international context. it is not enough to hold international conferences, but europe must be united to ensure that this does not happen again at international level!
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i can accept this amendment because it is taken for granted. of course, the applicable law must respect the principles of our treaties and the charter of fundamental rights. i have no problem with this proposal.
the rapporteur. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. the agreement between the epp, pse, greens and liberals was that if we accept this oral amendment by the epp, all the epp amendments will be withdrawn. i expect the epp to withdraw this too.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! one of the speakers said that the headline above all is: no violence! no violence on either side, as international law always has to be. we must insist on respect for international law, territorial integrity, non-interference in the internal decisions of a country, non-interference and respect for the agreements of august and september. i hope that this will continue in geneva. we must continue to ensure that the relevant decisions of the european council of 1 september and the decisions being negotiated by the commission on association agreements, free trade agreements, the eastern european partnership, the european economic area plus or whatever it is called are respected, so as to strengthen, stabilise and involve the countries without provoking each other and to do the necessary work for this purpose at the donor conference. at the same time, we must give our own eastern member states the feeling that their security is safeguarded in solidarity within the framework of the european union and nato. i think this is also important for psychological reasons. i am grateful to you, commissioner, for pointing out the economic interdependence. that's the best security policy. the more this interdependence is intensified, the more it is penetrated and linked to the spheres of interest of both, the less possible it is to break out of it by non-peaceful means. we should go even further here. this should also be supported by legal commitments, which we are bringing russia into, wto, partnership cooperation agreements with the corresponding commitments. if this economic interdependence is legally and contractually supported in this way, we will move forward. this must also be in our interests. energy security is one point. there are also global challenges. it is not for nothing that the 5+1 on iran have already met again and have resumed their normal work. this is happening on other levels as well. i heard that a committee of the european parliament was in moscow again. iran, the middle east, climate change, terrorism and whatever else: we can't do without russia! we must return to the spirit of dialogue. a security partnership with russia only works if it's not at the cost of existing alliances and not at the cost of keeping the us out of europe. that's a condition of such a partnership.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to follow up on what my colleague, bart staes, said about the other conflicts that still exist in the caucasus. if we now resume talks with russia - which we support - it is very important from our point of view that we do not forget that there is karabakh, chechnya, moldova and transnistria, and that we will also have to deal with a very difficult conflict in ukraine, namely in crimea, in the next decade. the european union must not make the same mistake as it did before the war in georgia, namely, not taking these conflicts seriously enough. so we think all these conflicts need to be dealt with. the caucasus and other neighbouring regions are very difficult regions. they are all in europe and must therefore be dealt with by europe, by the european union, with much greater priority - also in cooperation with russia. i am not sure that we can resolve the conflicts we have today. but i am quite optimistic today that this feeling of cold peace which has crept through europe - and indeed the whole european union - and which has also frightened russia, has been a sufficient warning and that the various parties are now returning more seriously to the negotiations. from the point of view of the west, it is very interesting that russia is rescuing entire countries in the financial crisis in order to cope with this crisis itself. the interconnectedness in times of globalisation is much more extensive than we have discussed in energy issues so far. if we find a better tone and the west does not always insist that its system has been the winning system since the end of the 1980s, we can also get back into better positions of confrontation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a tradition of european foreign policy which was largely shaped by hans-dietrich genscher, who even in the most difficult times of the cold war still had a dialogue with the soviet union, but always on the basis of a sober analysis of russian interests. the soviet union then had the primary objective of defending the status quo, and russia today has the primary objective of changing the status quo in its favour. that's a whole other set of interests. there is an objective interest in frozen conflicts, in criticism of the charter of paris by the recognition of abkhazia and south ossetia. there's an interest in it. there is an interest in an unstable ukraine. this is not good. it's a challenge for us. but it is much less serious than the existential threat posed by the soviet union, and even then we had a dialogue with the russians. we are therefore quite clear: we do not want the rhetoric of the cold war, but we do not want naivety either. we want a critical dialogue with moscow. we say yes to the long-term goal of strategic partnership, but no to the naive assumption that we have already reached that goal. i would also like to see this debate held in brussels rather than in strasbourg.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we europeans have a great deal of understanding, interest and sympathy for the vietnamese people. my group remembers very well the terrible suffering and devastation caused by the wars and occupations in vietnam, not only by the united states but also by european states. now vietnam is developing into a particularly dynamic and exciting region in southeast asia. the ten member countries of asean are not all democracies in our european sense, but there is a change in the picture. the new asean charter is an example of the fact that human rights violations cannot be concealed, mr tannock, and the negotiations also prove that human rights violations are definitely on the agenda. the time is right, because the negotiations are being re-launched; the 1995 cooperation agreement is being renegotiated. it is true that the european union is vietnam's second most important trading partner after china, and that is precisely why we can achieve something. partnership agreements are not meaningless! the pse calls on the commission to ensure that freedom of the press, minorities, democratic activists, religious freedom and, of course, the participation of un observers are guaranteed in vietnam. then we will develop even more sympathy for this beautiful country than we have ever had.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. vietnam is a country that is opening up more and more to the european union. there is a serious test for vietnam, and that test is human rights and fundamental freedoms. i would like to draw particular attention to religious freedom, as this resolution does, and i am grateful to the house for that. in vietnam, christians are being persecuted, and today the bishop of augsburg, who is particularly concerned about persecuted christians, is here to talk to us about this. buddhists and other religious communities are also prevented and persecuted from practicing their religion. it is quite clear that our task is to ensure that vietnam becomes an equal partner, that it opens up, that it comes closer to us. but this must not be at the expense of basic human and fundamental rights, but must be based on a fair partnership based on fundamental and human rights.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not prepared to accept this. my group has called for this debate with you, commissioner, because we are not in agreement with practically any of your points. in the current global economic situation, you cannot go and say: 'because certain regulatory conditions are not met, the yards must be closed.' if you close the shipyards now in this economic situation, as you have just announced, you will be plunging whole regions into economic disaster. you can't do that! that is why the polish government - like you as commission and us as parliament - needs more time. you cannot say in a situation of economic tension that certain points are not met. secondly, the argument that 24 000 euros are going to each job is a good one. but i want to tell you something: i was mayor of a coal-mining town in germany - there was a mine - and we were told that there was too much money going into every job. then the mine was closed. it took 20 years - 20 years! - to recover half the jobs that had been lost. it will be no different in the polish shipyards. if you say today that we are quitting, it will take you at least two decades to restructure this region! that is why the concentrated efforts must be devoted to preserving the sites, not to closing them! i expect the commission and the polish government - and my colleagues in my group do too - to make every effort to maintain a separate shipyard in poland, at all three sites. that is one of the key points we are asking you to do. if the polish authorities have not acted quickly enough, if the action plans, the business plans that you have spoken of, commissioner kroes, are not available now, then i have to ask you: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the polish shipyards are not subject to the same legal obligations as the other shipyards. that's more or less what you're telling us. the workers pay the price for the deficits of the government or the administration. this is absolutely unacceptable! so, mobilizing the globalization fund is a good thing. but you must mobilize him so that we can help on the spot, so that we can preserve the site, so that there is a competitive polish shipbuilding there. it is also important for us social democrats who are not from poland - and this is also why i am speaking here - to note that the polish shipbuilding industry, the sites such as gdansk and szczecin, were for us all symbols of the democratic struggle of the polish people against the dictatorship. that is why these sites must be preserved!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. commissioner, on behalf of the green group i call on the commission to help ensure the future of the shipyards! this is not a short-term restructuring, as is often the case in western countries. we must not forget that these yards bear a multiple burden of the past, not only the burden of the real socialist state economy, but also the burden of the errors of the accession process, in which you as commission failed to take account of the fact that a difficult process of transformation is taking place in this country and at that time you made demands that were not realistic and that did not contribute to a meaningful socioeconomic development. these are also errors of this process for which you are responsible! it is therefore completely pointless to refuse state aid and destroy jobs now and then support the workers made redundant from the globalisation adjustment fund. what is the point of subsidizing the unemployed at this point? this would be a huge disappointment on the ground, for which the eu would then be responsible. it makes sense to start a meaningful development for these yards now and thus to offer the three cities of szczecin, gdańsk and gdynia a sustainable outlook. this is an opportunity we should support, not react to. that's the only way i see here. the commission has the right to say that there is state aid, but that under the state aid we want to modernise these workplaces in an ecological way so that they have a long-term future and that the workers there can find good jobs in the long term.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the aim of the proposal is to increase the presence on the european market of low-energy, low-polluting vehicles, with the aim of reducing both energy consumption and emissions of co2 and other elements that can pollute, and these measures will benefit citizens living in large cities, who in turn represent the majority of the european population. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr jørgensen, and the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive contribution and for their close cooperation in the interinstitutional discussions throughout the summer, and this cooperation has resulted in a compromise text which has received broad support at first reading. under the provisions of the proposed directive, public bodies and undertakings, but also undertakings providing a public passenger transport service, are required to include energy consumption, co2 emissions and pollutant emissions among the criteria for the selection of vehicles purchased through tendering procedures. the decision to purchase a vehicle would therefore not only be based on the price of the vehicle in the future but also on the environmental costs of the vehicle over its lifetime. at the same time, the proposal leaves it to local authorities to decide on the details of implementation of the provisions and thus fully respects the principle of subsidiarity. the legislative text we are adopting does not introduce any new administrative procedures. the proposal is therefore fully consistent with existing legislation on public procurement and services and all the provisions contained therein, for example on thresholds and exemptions, remain in force. the proposal also represents an important step forward in the community's energy, climate and environment policies. the directive will introduce the parameters of energy consumption, co2 emissions and pollutant emissions in the procurement of procurement contracts. the public sector in europe would therefore serve as an example, promoting more advanced innovative technologies in order to have a sustainable transport system in the future, and this seems to me to be a very clear message that can be sent by local public companies or those that produce local services in a sector as important as pollution reduction. the proposal also introduces sustainable economics into public procurement for the supply of vehicles without imposing higher costs. on the contrary, the impact that vehicles will have over their lifetime is foreseen and made transparent before they occur. the purchase of the public transport is therefore decided on in a reasoned manner, thus avoiding higher costs both for the operators and for the public service company itself. the effects of the directive - and i am about to conclude, mr president - will foreseeably go far beyond its immediate scope. public procurement is a key market with high visibility and can influence the decisions of businesses and individuals. the directive is expected to lead in the long term to increased market penetration of clean, energy-efficient vehicles and to reduced costs associated with them through economies of scale. as a result, energy efficiency will increase and co2 and pollutant emissions will decrease for all vehicles on the road in europe. i now await the statements of the members who will be taking part in the debate so that i can finally provide them with the necessary clarifications. i hope that this debate will lead to a positive outcome and that the revised proposal for a directive will be adopted.
adopted on 16 february. the commission has decided to extend the period of validity of the authorisation for the placing on the market of the medicinal product concerned to the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2003. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to say that this draft report shows that environmental and climate protection is a concern of the whole of the european parliament, of all the committees of this house, but also of the commission and the council. i therefore think that we can agree with mr jørgensen when he says that everyone in europe should be concerned with limiting emissions and that environmental and climate protection play an important role in the procurement of vehicles. but environmental and climate protection must be a concern of the people, of the citizens of the european union itself, it must be an autonomous concern, and therefore also a concern of those who buy cars or buses in the european union. i therefore continue to wonder whether the rules we are proposing here will actually strengthen the conscience of the citizens or whether they will contribute to weakening it and whether this directive will at all serve the objective we want to achieve with it or whether it will not create more frustration with the alleged bureaucracy from brussels. i think there are a number of examples in many european countries where hydrogen-powered and low-carbon vehicles are already being bought without this directive, which means that there is already an environmental awareness. i doubt whether we will really strengthen this with a directive, because in my view the directive does little. and it is not, mr jørgensen, as you say, that the environmental impact will be particularly great. our aim should be to raise awareness among buyers and not necessarily to influence 1% of the car market and 6% of the lorry market with this directive. i think the effect will be relatively small. the effect will be that the conditions for the calls for tenders will be relatively extensive and that in the end, however, national implementation will dominate the award and it is quite possible - at least according to the council's legal service - that the weighting of environmental effects will be adopted at only one per cent and thus the effect on the environment will be relatively small. but the directive does not hurt either, because in the end all those involved can continue more or less as before. and that is a credit to the council and also to the shadow rapporteur on the environment committee, my friend karsten hoppenstedt. the internal market committee, in its opinion, which i was allowed to write, also took a position along these lines, and the directive was considerably improved in the trilogue. i think that there are some points which could be made positively, because some bureaucratic teeth have been pulled. the directive now provides for the possibility for member states to lay down technical requirements for the tender. this gives a great element of flexibility. it also provides for the general exclusion of special purpose vehicles from the scope. however, the risk of zero-weighting remains, and that is why i would like to conclude by saying that the directive is trying to achieve the right objective by the wrong means. the changes resulting from the compromise in the trilogue will have little effect in many member states, provided that they are implemented at national level in a manner favourable to the procurement authorities. in its present form, it must make the question to be asked by those involved in the eu institutions whether this directive is still serving the purpose for which it was intended in the end - after the admittedly difficult compromise in the trilogue. the quality of the rules depends almost exclusively on the implementation by the member states, and then community legislation is no longer really necessary. i would remind you again that this directive unfortunately only affects 1% of the number of cars and 6% of the number of lorries, and unfortunately it does not bring much benefit to the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the present commission proposal to promote energy-efficient vehicles is a re-issue of the original proposal which we rejected two years ago. the new commission proposal represents a considerable improvement. however, it should be noted that this text also has many criticisms, such as the lack of a legal impact assessment, the relatively small market shares of the vehicles concerned - this has already been said - and, last but not least, the mandatory integration of environmental criteria into the procurement procedure, in breach of the case law of the ecj. these shortcomings were exacerbated by the voting in the committee responsible, which would have produced a rigid and bureaucratic set of rules. i would have found this outcome unacceptable. the commission has also proposed that the council and the european parliament should be given the opportunity to discuss the draft budget for the financial year 2000 with the council and the commission. the focus is on flexibility for the municipalities. member states are free to set their own guidelines which replace the standardised methodology of the commission proposal. i know from germany alone that there are many standards for the purchase of environmentally friendly vehicles which are already being successfully applied today and which, according to our municipal associations, should continue to exist in this form in the future. in these cases, therefore, no new commitments are to be expected. for member states without such rules, the text is a guide to environmentally friendly procurement policies. however, if member states opt for the model developed by the commission, they can now expect simplified procedures. for procurements up to eur 249 000, no formal tendering procedure is required. the de minimis thresholds apply. special vehicles - we have heard this before - are also excluded. the compromise text is supported by the council and the commission and accepted by the local associations and the automobile industry. even if the whole text of the law could have been disregarded, there are practically no conflicting interests. i recommend that we take the line of compromise.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. even if we have now found compromises, or perhaps because we have now found compromises, which have, as mr schwab has just said, put the dent in this text of law, the question arises as to the meaning of this directive. given the small market share of publicly purchased vehicles - we are talking about 1% of cars and 6% of trucks - there can be no question of making a meaningful contribution to climate protection. it's just a drop in the bucket. the effort we put into this doesn't justify the benefits. i think it is particularly questionable to use the law of contract as an instrument. the contract law is designed as an instrument of economic procurement by the public authorities, purely product-related, capacity-related and performance-related. additional environmental criteria simply do not belong here. i would also remind you that we are discussing product standards in brussels. we are discussing emission standards for lorries and cars, and we will soon be discussing co2 limits for cars and lorries. the commission will not need additional european rules for the acquisition of products. we are creating yet another bureaucracy, a useless bureaucracy, and we are once again violating the principle of subsidiarity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the present draft directive on the promotion of clean road vehicles in public establishments is extremely bureaucratic and impractical. i think that we cannot assume that there will be any significant impact on the environment. the aim is certainly right, and we support it. we want to make every effort to ensure that we have a proper climate in europe. but i cannot go along with this path of bureaucracy, which actually brings more burdens than relief and improvement. if 1% of cars and 6% of lorries are affected - and this has already been said several times today - then there is no reason to assume that this will have any effect! if the municipalities have to calculate constantly what a vehicle actually does in its lifetime, what costs it generates, and then have to make their purchase decision accordingly - and therefore the reproach that the directive brings even more bureaucracy - then we are denying the right to award contracts en gros. we simply say: now the decision will be different! the municipalities have to decide on the price, that's the rule! because this is now a double right, we create legal uncertainty. this is a very reprehensible matter, which i cannot follow. even the most dissuasive compromise is not going to bring about any improvement! we have not seen any improvement in the climate, and we do not expect any improvement in the reduction of bureaucracy in the near future. and that, ladies and gentlemen, six months before the european elections! the commissioner is not the one who has to have these discussions, but we have to have them during the election campaign! if i were to come back in two years' time and the commission were to present its report, i can already predict that it would say: 'this has not been successful, we must tighten the rules even more. it will not see its mistake as it did not see the rejection two years ago but will go further: as already announced in the recitals, it will now also include private passenger transport. that's the goal, and i just can't go along with it. we must discuss this at the grassroots level, and the commission must also take note of the fact that it must listen more to parliament and the members of parliament!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all have a common goal. the routes are different, however, and not always clear at first glance. i have nothing against green procurement where it makes sense. i am opposed to this directive. i am aware that this will make little difference to the overall result in parliament. i would like to make a few comments on the commission's proposal. a first reading agreement on this important codecision issue, which is about more than technical adjustment, is an undermining of democracy. the rapporteur, whose work i greatly appreciate, does not have the vote of parliament, but only that of a committee, and negotiates on that basis with the council and the commission. parliament is out of the way. secondly, the compromise has changed the directive to a more or less empty one, but one which involves a considerable amount of red tape for local authorities. bureaucracy is not free, but it is often useless. we are contributing here to a further european fatigue of our citizens and local authorities. i would have liked the council and commission to withdraw the whole thing, since the directive has been relaxed in many substantial respects. all the issues still relevant are already regulated in the european context or there is no need for regulation or it is better to abolish it in the subsidiarity. the withdrawal would have sent a signal that we were taking the task of de-bureaucratising seriously together. for example, in my area there are many municipalities which are already taking the relevant decisions through the emas system. the costs now incurred in this way would certainly have been a hundred times greater for climate protection if the funds were used to insulate public buildings. the question i have to ask myself is whether the directive is being pursued for the sake of the directive or to prove action. most of the citizens of europe will not understand either!
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank mrs grossetête very much for her work on this report. it's been a pleasure working with you, and i'm sure you've created two things with the compromise you've reached. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report by mrs grossetête also has something to do with patient safety, and that is also something we are discussing today. we are talking about safety for people and safety for patients in a broader context. mr verheugen rightly pointed out that as society has aged, so has the need for health and people's fear of illness. in any case, fears are something that has been growing in society for a long time, and it is our task, where we are competent and where we can, to keep these fears as low as possible or to combat or resolve them as well as possible. there are a whole host of necessary measures on which we can give advice and we also have responsibility. one issue, certainly among many others, is patient information and drug safety. patients have the right to be fully informed about their illness, and if they are fully informed and can act on an equal footing with the medical profession, then they must have the right to access safe medicines and safe treatment methods. that is not the case at the moment in the european union, and we see a growing danger. i'm not at all inclined to dramatize. i may be a little emotional sometimes, but i'm not a drama queen. i'm also the last one to stir up fears. but i warn you not to see a problem that exists and close your eyes to it. we have a good example of what happens when you don't solve small problems that you could solve, when you wait too long and then you're in a situation where you're being swept away by a huge wave that's almost a tsunami. i therefore thank mr verheugen for what he said here today and i urge him to stick to it and fight against the counterfeiting of medicines. there are no simple solutions, and those who - i look at the stands, but it is probably still a little too early for the representatives of parallel trade - who think that patient and medicines safety is only a matter of parallel trade, are going a little too far and offending my intellectual capacity and that of my colleagues! what we have to try to do here is protect the patients. we can do this by taking various measures, for example by checking that the product is in good condition. what would you say if you were to buy a product in your home country that was packaged in a language you did not understand? there's a little sticker on it, all right, and inside the package are cut-up little blister packs. do you feel safe then? i can tell you, i had a package like that in my hand for a medicine that i desperately need, and i didn't feel safe about it. this is something we have to ban, and i'm sure the parallel traders - because they are the ones who obviously think we were trying to threaten their existence, which is not the case - will use enough intelligence to find something else. you will find a repackaging, or blister packaging will definitely not be cut anymore. mr verheugen has already pointed this out. there are the technical solutions. the pharmaceutical industry is prepared to have a complete traceability system, with a barcode that can be used to trace any drug. there's a pilot project for that. switzerland and belgium are telling us that this is possible. it's our job to give patients that security. i would like to say one last thing about the ingredients. it's not just about counterfeit drugs. you know, we had a big heparin scandal. it's a blood thinner. if people take a counterfeit drug, they can die. it's extremely dangerous. we got these fake drugs from china. it is also our responsibility to ensure that no counterfeit preparations and no counterfeit active substances are manufactured in the third countries with which we trade and that our markets are properly protected. it requires two things: we need to protect our borders properly, we need to have traceability systems and we need to provide security in the countries.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to congratulate mrs grossetête on her draft report on the modification of the authorization of medicinal products. i have two brief remarks to make to my predecessors. in my view, new drugs are a chance for treatment and cure, and the risk is balanced. in addition, in germany, for example, there are already active substances in many formulations and with many names, without any increase in risk. the main point of this regulation is the simplification of variations, that is to say the partial extension or change of the dosage form of a medicinal product. the current practice is extremely cumbersome and involves a high level of bureaucratic effort for firms. the competent authorities are also involved in measures which are not very effective, so that the innovation creates a win-win situation, which we do not often encounter. this will significantly improve the safety and reliability of the internal market. the work of the committee has also taken account of a number of other concerns which further accelerate or simplify the procedure. the issue of national authorisations has been sufficiently addressed to avoid duplication of effort. the interests of the federal republic of germany and its pharmaceutical companies were also duly taken into account. the draft has been adapted to the consolidated proposal eu/2008/0032. extension of authorisation to other names has been explicitly simplified. the addition or extension of product features has been facilitated. i am pleased to note that the commission has not yet adopted the report on the situation in the baltic sea. it is moving in the right direction to become the most efficient knowledge-based area in the world, in line with the lisbon process. i agree with that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have two more questions for mr verheugen. mr verheugen, do you agree that the integrity of the packaging and the barcode on one package are not an obstacle to carrying out other forms of trade, but that it requires intelligence to put a barcode on another product and put a package insert in another packaging? do you agree that we can expect a little intelligence and flexibility, which is expected of all the people of the european union, also from everyone involved in the trade and distribution of the pharmaceutical system here in the european union? i have one last question: we are going to have more and more problems with drugs coming into the european union from third countries. do you see a chance that we can create incentives to produce more active substances in the european union again and that drug manufacturers source these substances from the european union and not from countries where we cannot guarantee safety?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by congratulating mrs grossetête. i would also like to thank the commissioner for his speech, particularly on the issue of product piracy and counterfeiting. the 300% increase in the last year is a considerable amount and it also puts the health of european citizens at risk. but we also have to think about where piracy comes from, what its sources are. and we find that 80% of the counterfeit products are sold online, and 20% are actually smuggled. we must attack here! we must activate our customs authorities in the case of smuggled goods, we must apply new technologies, we must also look much more closely and much more intensively at the blistering of goods, and how we can provide security here. we must also look at the online pharmacies, of course, to ensure that there are secure online pharmacies and that citizens also know which pharmacies are secure. i would also like to refer to new principles. we need a coherent approach, where you think about who is my consumer? who's my supplier? know your supplier, know your client.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteur of my group, who unfortunately is unable to attend today, for the good cooperation. i think that we have really had a good cooperation with mr manders and good results of which we can be proud. it is particularly important that we have extended the scope to holiday clubs - which is a big problem - to cruise ships, houseboats and caravans. we have thus closed many loopholes which unfortunately existed in the old directive. it is also very important that we have introduced greater transparency, on the one hand through pre-contractual information, but also through the information sheets, through the standardised information already mentioned by several speakers. i also think it is important, and i would like to stress this, that we have the right of withdrawal extended to 14 days in cases of misuse of information, but also the possibility for consumers to have an extended period of three months, and in cases of criminal neglect of the obligation to provide information, even one year. this creates more transparency and legal certainty, and this is in the interests of consumers, but also in the interests of industry, which naturally has a great interest in distancing itself from dubious suppliers in this field. we can now finally make this a serious matter, together with industry, the member states and consumer associations. i think that is why our group will be in full agreement with this. we haven't achieved everything we wanted to achieve, but it's a big step forward.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we also want to thank the rapporteur, but also the shadow rapporteur and the epp rapporteur in the legal affairs committee. together as the european parliament we have shown that when a market goes out of control - as was the case with the timeshare sector - we are also prepared to act together. it should be noted once again that the market for part-time housing rights in its classic form has been increasingly infiltrated by dubious providers, such as club holdings and holiday resorts, scattered across europe, who have in fact failed to inform the consumer in a transparent manner about the opportunities and disadvantages of such an investment. the new system will bring considerable benefits in this area. the extension of the withdrawal period from 10 to 14 days was raised. i also think it is right that we have excluded multiannual hotel bookings because the consumer is really in a different situation here than if he were to commit himself to an annual recurring investment in a holiday club or a holiday resort. i would also like to point out - and much has been said on this point - that the requirement that the consumer be informed either in the language of the country in which he is resident or in his mother tongue also leads to the removal from the market of the contract models that were not reliable, thus putting the market for part-time housing rights on a serious basis once again and allowing consumers who wish to buy into such a facility during their holidays to do so with full confidence. the revision clause, which was not included in the last directive, gives us as a parliament the opportunity to evaluate after three years to what extent the approach we are proposing really solves the problems or whether there are other problems where we will then have to intervene more decisively. i thank you, and i believe, mrs kuneva, that we have taken a very positive step towards the single market.
the commission has already done so. i think we have done a good job here, not just for the internal market - as mr schwab has just said - but for the citizens. and this is much more important to me, because we want to make sure that they find themselves in a europe that is growing together, in a very positive sense, and i think that is what has actually happened here. as coordinator, i would also like to thank our shadow rapporteur, mr joel hasse ferreira, for the excellent work he has done together with the rapporteur and the other shadow rapporteurs. the pse group would like to see the scope of the directive extended even further. that's very clear, but where you have to compromise, you have to compromise. i think we've found a very positive solution, though. the facilitation of the comparability of offers, the right of withdrawal, advertising, these are all things that will lead us in the future to create better conditions for our citizens to be able to find themselves and be sovereign in a market that really had a lot of wild growth. these wild growths have resulted in many people who may not have been paying attention while on vacation being put in very difficult situations. we want to prevent that in the future, and i think that this compromise is a very good way of doing that.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just want to warn my colleagues. i have been told for years that this will be discussed at the next bureau meeting, and nothing has changed. (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. you got it in writing. i am in favour of an amendment which reads in english as follows: 'deplores the expected spillover effects to other sectors of the economy, therefore ...' this is a slightly different way of saying that the financial crisis has had a negative impact on the economy as a whole.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to point out that we are voting on a joint motion for a resolution tabled by four groups who have agreed not to table amendments to the joint text. oral amendments are also amendments, and the alde group has signed the joint resolution. we therefore regret that we have to reject further amendments, including oral amendments.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would suggest that the honourable members from the alde group should raise their legitimate objections in the negotiations that are taking place. it is a shame to make such proposals in the house because we cannot seriously discuss them here. this is unparliamentary. that's why we're not doing this. (applause from the centre)
mr president, i just wanted to point out to the house that we voted on a resolution of a european council meeting, and it is a disgrace that nobody from the council is present to take into account what we have been working on and what we have to say. this is not the way we work together. (applause)
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. it is a great honour and pleasure to welcome you, mr president, to the european parliament. you visited the european parliament in 1998, when you were president of portugal. since then, the european union has grown not only in terms of its members; at the same time, their ambition and responsibilities have increased. i am particularly pleased to see you here today in your capacity as high commissioner for the 'alliance of civilizations', an initiative of the united nations, because your visit is of great importance to us all in view of the current european year of intercultural dialogue. through the united nations 'alliance', you make a valuable contribution to greater mutual respect and understanding between nations. i am confident that your enthusiasm and long experience will benefit the many initiatives your organisation promotes in the fields of youth, education, media and migration. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the final report of the alliance of civilizations contains detailed and useful suggestions on both topics. it is noted that more new teaching material, such as schoolbooks, better suited to promote mutual understanding, needs to be developed. the successful development of intercultural dialogue should not be limited to individual measures with a public impact, such as colloquia, joint declarations or symbolic gestures. in the context of the year of cultural dialogue, the european union and the european parliament have sought to go beyond mere declarations of intent and to contribute to a better understanding between different cultures through very concrete initiatives. we have invited many important people to the plenary and you are one of them. it is now important that we continue this dialogue between cultures, not just in 2008, but in the years to come and in the future. president sampaio, we are grateful that you have found your way to us today, to this parliament, which represents 27 countries and almost 500 million citizens. it is a great pleasure to ask you to speak to us now. there you are, jorge sampaio!
un high representative for the alliance of civilizations. mr president of the european parliament, mr secretary-general, ladies and gentlemen, i wanted to give this opening greeting in my native language, portuguese, but you will understand that i am using a different language code in my capacity as president of the european parliament. your excellencies, let me express at the very outset my heartfelt thanks to mr pöttering for his kind words of welcome. let me also add that it is an honour and a great pleasure to address this distinguished audience both on behalf of his excellency the secretary-general of the united nations and in my capacity as high representative for the alliance of civilizations. the secretary-general was invited to address this parliamentary session but was unable to be here today with us. he asked me to deliver the following message to the european parliament on the european year of intercultural dialogue, and i quote: 'it is a great pleasure to send greetings to all the distinguished participants in this important session of the european parliament on intercultural dialogue.' throughout its history, europe has seen terrible outbreaks of armed conflict often rooted in prejudice and hatred. yet the continent has also been fertile soil for some of the world's most remarkable innovations, artistic creations and scientific progress. europe's tremendous diversity and its strategic geographic position, at the centre of the old and new migration routes, have made it a significant venue for cross-cultural interaction and interfaith dialogue. in particular, its close relationship with its neighbours across the mediterranean makes europe an important bridge between civilisations. like many other regions of the world, europe faces multiple challenges in promoting intercultural dialogue. migration, economic uncertainty and political tensions are putting strains on relations between different cultural, ethnic and religious groups. but it is precisely in your region, where constructive contacts over the centuries have allowed humanity to take major leaps forward, that opportunities for reconciliation and cooperation exist. this special session today holds great promise. i urge you to make the most of this opportunity, and to pursue joint economic projects, educational exchanges, and other initiatives that will improve people's lives and create a bulwark against intolerance, religious fundamentalism and extremism. the united nations will do its part to support and complement your efforts, both in and beyond europe. the alliance of civilizations is one of our main vehicles for this work. it aims to address the growing divisions between societies by reaffirming a paradigm of mutual respect between peoples. it also seeks to mobilise joint action for this purpose. among the alliance's major initiatives are a youth solidarity fund to promote dialogue, and a global expert finder to provide a source of commentators who can shed light on potentially divisive issues. if i were to do it all over again, i would begin with culture. these famous words, most often attributed to jean monnet, who worked so tirelessly for european unity, remain strikingly relevant today. cross-cultural tolerance, dialogue, respect and understanding must be pillars of the better world we are trying to build. it is very encouraging to know of your strong commitment to this quest. for the sake of countless people living between the extremes and yearning for dignity and peace, let us work together so that intercultural dialogue can bear fruit. in that spirit, please accept my best wishes for the success of your discussions. this is the end of his excellency's message. (applause from the left) as a former member of parliament, i know that parliament is and always will be the home of democracy. its members have the sometimes thankless task of guaranteeing a sustainable view of the future for the people they represent. as far as europe is concerned, we all know how slow has been the evolution of the parliamentary institution, and how great the challenges are to enforce a specific european model of democracy. i can only praise the work already carried out and its contribution to build a more participatory, pluralist europe that is closer to citizens, closer, after all, to all citizens. these are the results of your labours and i therefore wish to address a warm greeting to all the members of this assembly, the legitimate representatives of a community of nations committed to achieving an original and unique project, in which the last century placed so many hopes and which in this one faces so many expectations. i come today to speak to you of the alliance of civilizations, an issue that, although it may seem remote and distant from our day-to-day life, is in fact deeply embedded here. in fact, it started as an academic dispute between scholars who predicted the end of history and the clash of civilizations, but that turned into a major hot social topic, a challenge to democracy and a core issue of international policy because of globalization, increased migration and 9/11. an issue, finally, that the united nations managed to put high on the global agenda. what am i talking about? i refer to the huge ethnic, cultural and religious diversity of our societies and of the increasing difficulties we experience in living together. i speak of the worsening divides of all types, the erosion of social cohesion and the widening rifts between societies. i speak, too, of a widespread malaise that has been expressed in increased intra- and inter-community tensions, in mutual distrust, in polarised perceptions and world views, in intractable identity-based conflicts, and, of course, in the rise of extremism. furthermore, i speak of religion being employed as a tool by all and sundry, and used and abused for various purposes and effects. i also speak of some disorientation of political powers, confronted with the deficiencies of a purely security-based and/or repressive approach, and the absence of suitable policies and instruments for proper governance of cultural diversity. all this serves to underline what to me is irrefutable evidence: cultural diversity has become a major political issue challenging modern democracies, pluralism, citizenship and social cohesion, as well as peace and stability among nations. for me this is crystal clear and, even if serious difficulties, such as the current financial and economic turmoil, take up all attentions, in my view we simply cannot allow the present emergencies to deflect us from handling the in-depth problems of today and guard against the crises of tomorrow. to put it harshly, to us, to the european union, stripped down to its bare essentials, what does this mean? it means: how to integrate minorities, all minorities, but the muslims of europe in particular? how to develop our relationship with the mediterranean? where to draw the lines of the european project? how to enhance european foreign policy to project what we consider universal values to the world? in my view, this is all about fundamental questions concerning values, beliefs, attitudes and behaviours. this is about democracy, rule of law, human rights and respect for cultural diversity; about justice, social cohesion and inclusive societies; about states, secularisation and secularism or laicité; about the public sphere, private acts and religious revival. this is all about european identity and values. that is how i see it. (applause) the time is obviously very short, i will not be able to discuss all these points, so i will focus on the issue of the muslim minorities in europe. why is there growing anxiety about the integration of muslims in europe? because it is a demographic issue? yes, of course! because of the integration issue? no doubt about that! in my view, the presence of muslims in europe is not a question of islam and the west, but an acute problem of integration. but, to my mind, there is another thing: there is an identity issue. indeed, the arrival of immigrants in any society has an impact on the host country's sense of self. but the point here is that, as someone has put it, "the dam separating christian europe from muslim east has sprung a leak, altering europe's culture". why, for example, did past discussions on the preamble of the former european constitution end in such vocal acrimony? why does turkey's accession to the european union trigger such passionate and combative debates? all these questions are interrelated and they all point to the so-called european values and identity. in order to reinforce it, european identity should encompass individual allegiances and adopt cultural legacies. (applause from the left) europe as a place where we can live together as equals requires more and more inclusive citizenship and better governance of cultural diversities. to cope with the integration of muslims in europe and in our european societies, we need new policies at all levels. we need european action, but also national governmental initiatives as well as local measures. we need democratic governance of cultural diversity. we need integrated perspectives and policies on education, youth, and the integration of migrants. in order to develop appropriate cultural policies, we need to build cultural statistics and indicators to inform decision-makers and the decision-making process and to monitor and assess the implementation of those policies. we need to develop democratic citizenship and participation. we need education for human rights, education for citizenship and respect for others, education for intercultural understanding and dialogue, education on media literacy, education about religions and beliefs and both intra- and inter-religious dialogue. we need to learn about and to teach intercultural competences to our citizens. we need to create urban strategies and policies for intercultural dialogue. we need youth policies based on equal opportunities. we need to engage civil society at large, youth, religious leaders and the media. but we also need to expand and develop the intercultural dialogue agenda in international relations and, of course, give it priority. how can we live together in our globalizing world, where clashes anywhere are clashes everywhere and where cultural and religious fault-lines divide our societies? this is the global challenge the alliance of civilisations is facing and which it has to address in concrete terms. turning this global challenge into glocal deliverables is therefore the alliances main task. by glocal i mean that deliverables have to be extensively underpinned by a global approach, but have to be implemented at a local level. this means that the alliance relies heavily on the european union to implement an agenda of good governance of cultural diversity in the european region, meaning not only the members of the european union, but also its neighbouring countries, particularly the mediterranean ones. this is why i am so happy that an action plan on cooperation between the european union and the alliance of civilizations has been agreed and will provide a solid basis for the pursuit of concrete objectives and the implementation of practical projects. in this regard, let me stress how important and significant it will be if the european year of intercultural dialogue could be expanded into a long-term, sustainable framework for promoting good governance of intercultural diversity, and i commend his excellency the president's words in this regard. i am sure that it would have a tremendous impact on boosting national strategies for intercultural dialogue comprising measures and programmes on education, media, migration and youth that i have asked countries to design and implement. this is a suggestion that i put forward last april and to which i would like to draw your attention, asking honourable members of parliament kindly to back it up. another area in which the alliance is eager to collaborate is the union for the mediterranean in order to help improve and manage intercultural diversity and intercultural dialogue, including inter-faith issues, within and among european and muslim societies and communities. to put it bluntly: the current international difficulties and the increasing anxiety we all feel in living together in mutual respect have encouraged the misguided view that cultures are set on an unavoidable collision course leading to a clash of civilizations. we face increased polarizations that come up against a backdrop of growing tensions over a series of political issues and of growing cultural stereotypes. it goes without saying that political conflicts can only be solved through political negotiations. the long-term resolution of tensions between muslim and western societies, for example, cannot be achieved as long as some of the well-known sources of hostility are not successfully addressed. but it is equally true that peace agreements rarely hold if they are not strongly backed by the communities involved. many peace deals in the past have floundered because deep-seated suspicion and hostility remained, dividing people along cultural and religious lines. now the point precisely is that all findings are unanimous and show a great divide in the way westerners and muslims view each other, with westerners seen by muslims as patronizing and domineering, and muslims seen by westerners as fanatical and intolerant. moreover, socioeconomic marginalization and discrimination generate disaffection and intolerance, and aggravate the chasm between muslim and western publics. this so-called divide, opposing two fictional monolithic blocks, islam and the west, fuels further stereotypes and polarization, and gives rise to extremism. but let me stress that the vast majority of people reject extremism in any society and support respect for religious and cultural diversity. both muslims and non-muslims are concerned by the challenges of security and the threat of social polarization. millions of muslim families worry about losing their young to religious and political extremism. in order to tackle this problem, we should develop new strategies to manage and promote inter-faith dialogue as part of cultural diversity, based on universal human rights. in other words, creating the necessary conditions for sustainable peace requires efforts of a different kind, aimed at generating a mind shift among divided communities. this is my first concluding point. my second point concerns the need to give political priority to the development of democratic governance of cultural diversity. in the european union this implies creating a collective identity between its citizens regardless of their origins and their ethnicities, languages, philosophical beliefs, political and religious affiliations to share values, attitudes and projects, and make room for a common future to build on together. this is why cultural diversity should go hand in hand with the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, equal opportunities for all, economic solidarity and social cohesion. these issues will not be sorted out in the short term unfortunately it is like that and long-term efforts are needed. indeed, the temptation to give up is likely to be with us all the time, but we must never resign ourselves because, after all, small changes in circumstances can produce big shifts in behavior. and this is exactly what we need to generate the will to live together in mutual respect and appreciation of our ethnic, linguistic, cultural and religious differences. the urgency of the task cannot be underestimated. but i am sure that with your work and your commitment we will manage to live together in integrated communities. thank you very much for your attention. (the house agreed to the speaker's request for a standing ovation.)
president sampaio, on behalf of the european parliament,i thank you for this great speech, andi thank you for your great commitment, as the un high representative,to the alliance of civilisations and to intercultural dialogue. as you mentioned the union for the mediterranean,i take this opportunity to inform you that,at its extraordinary plenary session of12 and 13october in jordan,the euro-mediterraneanparliamentary assembly – including representatives from israel, palestine, the arab countries, the europeanparliament and the national parliaments of the european union – adopted a declaration on the peace process in the middle east. in november,several hundred young people from all the countries that are building the union for the mediterranean will meet here, in the chamber of the european parliament in strasbourg, and engage in a dialogue ofcivilisations – a dialogue of cultures. we are committed to your goals, mr president,and we wish you wellin your great commitment to the alliance of civilisations. the europeanparliament supports you. your ambition is our ambition. thank you, president sampaio, for your visit to the europeanparliament. obrigado. (applause)
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. preparations for the first reading of the european budget for 2009 are almost complete. i would therefore like to begin today's debate by thanking all the members of the committee on budgets and the many members of the specialised committees who have worked closely with me for their cooperation and for the time they have given me. i said it at the very beginning of our budgetary procedure in 2009 and i would like to repeat it: a budget rapporteur is only as good as the sum of all her colleagues. so thank you. i also have to thank the team of the secretariat of the committee on budgets. without the consistent good work of the secretariat staff, we would be members of parliament - and we are still good at it - nothing. thank you very much. yeah, that's a good point. i think so, too. (applause from the centre) i would also like to include my personal assistant and the staff of the political groups in this thanks. it takes many heads and many hands to do a decent job. the preparation of the first reading of our budget, during which 1400 amendments had to be read, understood and evaluated, was affected by the financial crisis. even if our budget, at some 130 billion euros, is ridiculously small compared with the hundreds of billions which the member states have spent as a protective shield in a joint and separate effort on the banks, but also on the real economy, our meetings in preparation for the first reading were characterized by the contributions to the debate from all the groups involved on this very subject. we have already anticipated the council's reaction to our budgetary demands. what are our demands? first, there are the payments. we have already pointed out in july that we cannot approve of a 15% gap between commitment appropriations and payment appropriations, as proposed by the commission in the preliminary draft budget and again increased by the council. we believe that this is not in keeping with the principle of budgetary accuracy and clarity. even if we compare this gap in the third year of the current financial perspective with the gap in the third year of the last financial perspective, which was only 3%, we do not see how such a huge gap can be justified. that's why we've increased the payments. we couldn't close the gap completely, but we cut it in half. now there's an 8% gap. we have not increased these payments on demand or at random, but in the budget lines which finance parliament's priorities: action against climate change, the social dimension in the sense of growth for more jobs, shaping globalisation and support for small and mediumsized enterprises, and in some lines which are aimed at the security of citizens. in total, we have increased payments from 0.89% of gnp - that was the council level - to a rounded-off 0.96% of gnp. secondly, we have decided to make the most of the opportunities offered by the financial perspective. in headings 1a and 3b we want to distribute all the money to the budget lines which are important to us and leave no margin. we want to see that heading 1a, 'competitiveness for growth and jobs', is not just a rhetorical statement but also a concrete action. in section 3b, we do not want to see the title 'union citizenship' as a hollow phase, but to give it life, since this section brings together the policies that directly and immediately reach the citizens on the ground, which make the european union extremely visible. thirdly, with the package of pilot projects and preparatory measures agreed between all the political groups and already under evaluation by the commission, we have given a number of impetus to new policy content, to new community action, possibly to new legislation. fourthly, we have followed our political intuition. no one should expect good administrative work, either from the commission or from the decentralised agencies, if he does not have a sufficient budget for staff. that is why we could not accept the council's cuts. we have returned to the preliminary draft budgetary approach. the commission could not only thank us for this, but also support us in our disputes with the council. fifthly, i would like to come to the main problem, namely our chapter 4, which has the lofty title: 'the european union as a global actor'. this heading was already set up in the negotiations on the financial perspective with very little money: hopelessly underfunded! that is why we have the same stress year after year during the budgetary consultations: how do we finance all that is needed for financing, and at the same time allow ourselves the air to react to unforeseen events during the course of the financial year? to say it straight away: there has been and there is no satisfactory solution. we need programmes with a multiannual perspective for our aid in kosovo, afghanistan, palestine and now also in georgia, not this eternal 'hand-in-mouth' life. this is nothing new, but this year the commission has given us an additional task. in july, in view of the enormous increase in food prices worldwide, the commission proposed the so-called food facility for the least developed countries. financial volume: eur 1 billion for the years 2008 and 2009. if we had a proper commission, it would have proposed immediately that the necessary appropriations be transferred from heading 2 to heading 4. but she hasn't, because not only is she not neat, she's also afraid. she was afraid that she would not get approval from the council. and now we have the problem at hand. we must now get the council to announce not only in its sunday speeches that the poorest of the poor are being helped, but to work with us to find the means - yes, where? - so that direct food aid can be provided and seeds and fertilisers can be bought. the committee on budgets has clearly seen that we will not be able to find the necessary money in the budget lines of heading 4. that is why we have created what is called a star amendment. this motion for a resolution contains 250 million for food aid, 40 million for kosovo, 80 million for palestine and 20 million for afghanistan. this motion for a resolution, which clearly shows that we want to spend more than the money available under the financial perspective, is to be understood as an invitation to the council. i hope that the council will take our point of view as an invitation or a request and that it will enter into negotiations with us without delay. we have no time to waste, we should not organize everything at the last minute. mr president-in-office, it is your turn now. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission. − madam president, i am very happy to see how quickly and efficiently parliament has finalised its first reading and that it is ready to vote tomorrow. this huge job was done by the committee on budgets, by their leaders and coordinators and, of course, by the political groups. thislargest portion of the job to be done forms the basis for our future negotiations. we will be starting serious engagement between the two arms of the budgetary authority and the commission in the next two months. the commission in general very much appreciates and shares the political priorities for which the european parliament proposes budget reinforcement and restorations. regarding payments, the european parliament intends to approve the level of appropriations up to the ceiling. however, this is not convincing enough for us, because we think that the preliminary draft budget corresponds better to the actual absorption capacity, notably in member states. i will this week send out the information on the execution of the budget, and you will see that our calculations are based on very serious grounds. the commission is largely in agreement with the new process on the pilot projects and preparatory actions proposed by parliament. on this occasion i would like to stress my appreciation for the excellent collaboration between our institutions, which is thanks to a new and successful approach promoted by the general rapporteur, mrs haug. this is the first time in our history of negotiations that we have already been able,before the summer,to receive and agree on the broad scope of these pilot projects. i would also like to draw attention to a number of issues which still, at first reading, give rise to serious concerns for the commission. the first and most important concerns heading 5. we appreciate that parliament has restored the amounts requested by the commission for staff salaries. however, at the same time, eur 37million havebeen put in the reserve, subject to certain conditions for its release. on top of that, an additional reserve of some eur 16million for two specific policy areas, namely transport and environment, has also been reserved. it will of course be very difficult for the commission to respondto this, especially the last one, because there is only one employer in the commission – namely the commission – and it is not possible, for example, to stop payments for one or two dgs and continue to pay the others. these reserves – in total about eur 50million – would stop the recruitment of 250 posts received for enlargement and prevent the replacement of retiring staff as from next january. but of course we understand thatour negotiating and explanatory skills will come into play with your people as soon as possible after the first reading. we will try to give all the necessary explanations and to fulfil all the conditions set on these reserves. regarding the administrative support for operational programmes, this year parliament has followed the council and confirmed the cuts. i understand that additional technical explanations will be needed, and we will try to solve this via negotiations about these lines in general. another problem we see is that parliament has not restored the appropriations requested for publication of procurement notices. this, we think, undermines the commission’s ability to meet its obligations stemming from the public procurement directives, especially in the current environment. we are solving and trying to solve state aid and other problems in member states in this fluctuating economic situation, and this can place the commission at risk of legal challenge in the courts. to sum up, the commission will analyse in detail each amendment adopted by parliament and will give its reactions in early november through the ‘letter on executability’ – as it does every year – explaining all the necessary details. before the conciliation in november, and before the second reading, we will try to solve as far as possible anything that we still consider to be a problem in the first reading. as usual, the commission will try to be the honest broker between the two budgetary authorities, especially in negotiating the problems which arise in heading 4, in heading 5 and in the total ceilings of paymentappropriations in the budget. we will try to be helpful by seeking favourable conditions and a good budget for the whole of europe, especially in these difficult times that we are facing together.
president of the council. - madam president, commissioner grybauskaite, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to apologize for the absence of eric woerth, who is in paris for a good reason, since it is also the budgetary season in france and the presentation to parliament of the draft budget law in the context of the first draft law on the programming of public finances. i know, having also discussed it with president böge, how important this debate is to parliament and how important it is also to the french presidency. i would also like to thank my colleagues and those of the council and mr woerth who helped me prepare this important debate. our work so far has been marked by a very good climate of cooperation and i can assure you that the council is ready to continue this high-quality dialogue in order to reach an agreement on the 2009 budget that is balanced and satisfactory for all of us. i listened carefully to the speeches of mrs haug and mr lewandowski, who were more specifically concerned with the aspects of communication. we reached a political agreement on the communication strategy with parliament and the commission this morning and i am pleased to see that, despite our differences, we share the same objective, namely to ensure that the political priorities of the european union are financed, whether in terms of competitiveness, cohesion or growth. of course - and you have stressed this, the commissioner has also done so - in the current international context, we must ensure that europe has the means to play its full role on the international stage. but all this must be done within the financial framework that has been set for the period 2007-13. i would therefore like to mention briefly three issues which seem to me to be particularly important: the first concerns payment appropriations and their amounts, the second concerns the rules of budgetary discipline and sound financial management and, finally, the question of food aid. as regards payment appropriations, i will not conceal from you that the council is very concerned about the high amount of payment appropriations which the european parliament intends to vote on at first reading, because this intention goes far beyond the commission's initial proposal in its preliminary draft budget. payment appropriations should be adjusted to reflect the reality of needs and lessons should be drawn from past implementation to determine the actual capacity to implement sectoral policies. what we have seen since the financial perspective was introduced, and i have followed it for some time, is that the community budget has always been under-implemented, and this has been the case since 1988. the amending budget for 2008 should show that the payment appropriations requirements have been greatly overestimated again this year, especially in relation to a very fundamental policy such as cohesion policy, and there is no indication at this stage that this will not be the case in 2009. as has been emphasised and with the commissioner's encouragement, improvements have been made in recent years but the uncertainties related to the 2009 financial year remain significant. as of 1 october, out of the 433 cohesion policy programmes, only 2 have received interim payments and you will understand that in the current economic and financial context - and we cannot compare what is not comparable in what is being implemented to save the financial system for the benefit of savers and the protection of the european citizen and what is the budget of the european union - it is important to safeguard the interests of european taxpayers above all and to avoid, as far as possible, any payment appropriations that could not be used. the second challenge is compliance with the rules of budgetary discipline and sound financial management. the council will ensure full implementation of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006. expenditure must respect the limits set by the agreement and sufficient margins must be maintained under the ceilings of the various headings. these ceilings, as you know, are not defensive targets. we do not think it is acceptable that they should be systematically overloaded because this would undermine the capacity to cope with unforeseen situations that may arise in the 2009 budget year. i should like to mention briefly the situation in heading 4, on which your assembly is about to vote an amendment which would go far beyond the ceiling of the financial perspective. we are well aware of the real tensions that weigh on this item. we must find a coherent response to the different priorities of the union on the international scene and we must calibrate our level of intervention as closely as possible, particularly in the context of the common foreign and security policy, and we know that the situation in this area can change very quickly. so again, we must leave sufficient room for manoeuvre to deal with any developments in this area and with any developments in the cfsp assistance. the third issue is the financing of the food facility. it is clear that this is an important part of the forthcoming discussions in the council in the coming weeks. the european council last june gave a strong political impetus by welcoming the commission's willingness to present its proposal, but the council's mandate is very clear: a financing solution must be found in strict compliance with the current financial perspective. i know that this view is shared by your assembly, but the council is nevertheless trying to find all the appropriate means of financing to implement the political will that has been shown by the heads of state and government and by the european commission. i wanted to say - so that this is not blamed on translation errors - that i knew that this vision was not shared by your assembly. it's a mistake on my part and probably a slip. but i would also like to point out that there were points of convergence between your assembly and the council on this important aspect of the food facility, in particular that we shared the same reservation about the commission's proposal to finance the whole of this facility from the margins below the ceiling of heading 2. what is clear is that we must - and we know this in the council - we must converge on the optimal combination of sources of funding in order to agree within the council on the overall amount proposed by the commission at the consultation to be held in november. i am sure that the three institutions will do their utmost to reach a comprehensive agreement on the 2009 budget at the november meeting on the financing of the new initiatives i have just mentioned. this agreement must be the best compromise possible, both for the union, its citizens and its institutions. just a word on the regulation on the application of the decisions on own resources, on which your assembly will be called upon to give its opinion at this part-session, to thank, on behalf of the council and on my own behalf, alain lamassoure for his report and to thank your assembly for the diligence and speed with which it has dealt with this matter. we will not reject the commission's proposal. the ratification of the own resources decision in the individual member states is well under way and we hope to be able to meet the target of full entry into force by 1 january 2009. that's what i wanted to show you.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to make two points on mrs haug's report. firstly, on the initiative of parliament, a separate budget line for trade-related aid - aid for trade - has been established under the trade policy heading, amounting to eur 1 billion per year. unfortunately, the commission has not been able to provide us with detailed information on how these commitments are being implemented and whether they are effective. it is a good thing that the committee on budgets has accepted an amendment by the committee on international trade which reduces by 50% the amount proposed by the council for aid for trade. the second point concerns the support to developing countries for capacity building in the pharmaceutical sector and the transfer of technology. last year parliament called for concrete steps to support the poorest countries in their supply of medicines. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: unfortunately, neither the commission nor the council seems to think so. i am sorry to say that the committee on budgets has not adopted an amendment to this effect. the report by mr lewandowski has been the subject of my committee's emphasis on an important aspect of the ep's work in the field of international trade relations: participation in the interparliamentary union of the world trade organisation in geneva. the european parliament is co-organizer of the annual meetings and there are certainly important ministerial conferences in the doha round next year, so it would be desirable to increase the funds here so that we have adequate infrastructural facilities for participation. we are also keen to help acp representatives to finance their travel and subsistence expenses to the parliamentary conference. both can and should contribute to greater transparency and dialogue between parliaments, governments and civil society and, ultimately, to greater fairness and legitimacy of the negotiations and decisions in the wto.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on employment and social affairs. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i should like to begin by thanking my colleagues on the committee on budgets for their support for the budgetary approach of the committee on employment. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget. we cannot keep talking about social dialogue as one of the cornerstones of our social model in europe and then limit the resources available in this area. i would also like to ask the council to join us in seeking a solution to the problem of the degressivity clause. the work of the trade union institutions is particularly affected by this and continuous cuts in funding are simply not sustainable in the long term. let me say a few words about the two pilot projects of the committee: there was a broad consensus for a pilot project on posted workers. i am sure that the results of this project will provide important insights for our future policy decisions on the posting of workers directive. we will therefore be very careful to ensure that the commission then also focuses its attention on what is important to us in this project in order to prevent wage and social dumping. the second project is on violence against the elderly: we are tackling a taboo subject here, and this is particularly important.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in 2004, at a major cultural conference in berlin, commission president barroso said that european cultural policy must be about giving europe a soul. but in the cultural budget, we find that the big tasks are met with only small successes. we have now succeeded in launching a pilot project to spend more money on the mobility of artists. we also want to spend more money on lifelong learning and youth exchanges. but in the face of the need to inspire european citizens, to get them to know europe, we spend far too little on this. because, as barroso has said, europe's citizens are not falling in love with the single market, but want to know more about the european cultural heritage we have. we have just awarded the european film prize to the ep. we must also spend more on european film productions, because we must bring the european narrative and the european images of european history and future closer to our citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the 2009 budget of the european union can only be a small success because we are moving in the corset of the financial perspective. the green group, when we voted on it, made it clear that the financial perspective is out of proportion to the new challenges and tasks we are facing. we have just heard from all the members that the european budget is underfunded in foreign policy. but even with regard to the global climate change challenge, our european budget is not in a position to respond adequately. i would remind you of the great speech yesterday by president sarkozy, who pointed out that everything in the european union would have to change in the face of the economic crisis and the climate catastrophe. the 2009 budget reflects this only to a very small extent, and this is our common problem. we are not up to date with our european budget! we should also link energy production to environmental objectives in agricultural policy, and we should do more, as barroso announced yesterday, in research and development and, above all, in education policy. because these are europe's resources! we must move away from a budget of reaction to a budget of action and a new political concept. we must finally do more to fight hunger. and in sub-saharan africa in particular, we have another increase in hunger. we cannot accept that! and we must do more to promote fair trade so that the third world and the emerging countries finally have a fair chance. i come to the political conclusion. as mr sarkozy said yesterday, we need a renewal of capitalism, under green banners, a green deal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i shall concentrate on heading 4, the union's external action. in areas of current or former conflict, such as georgia, kosovo, palestine, afghanistan and pakistan, we want to achieve improvements for people and peaceful and dignified development. as our financial planning has provided too little for 2009, we must also receive additional funds from the member states for the newly increased tasks. in particular, there must be no limitation on the tasks and commitments in our immediate neighbourhood. the eu is a reliable and predictable partner for candidate countries, eastern european neighbours and mediterranean partners. if i look at the implementation of the 2008 budget - for example, for palestine alone - and the number of letters of amendment, i know that we will be in a similar situation in 2009. i therefore appeal to the council presidency with a view to the conciliation meeting. on 21 november we shall jointly mobilise the flexibility instrument in accordance with our proposals. we will not be so easily available for adjustments next year. you know, we're in the midst of an election, and you don't know who you might be sitting across from after the election. we have also made a further step in the external sphere, which i regard as positive. we have put in extra resources to enable us to broadcast european news in farsi, the language of iran and afghanistan. i think it is important that we broadcast our political views to these areas so that people know what europe's position is. i would also ask the commission to change its policy. you know, there is now a network of european political foundations, which includes five political families, and unfortunately we are experiencing that they are effectively blocked from carrying out our policies, from supporting democracy. i expect that this situation will be changed for next year.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs, mr janusz lewandowski, who has drawn up parliament's budget with a very deliberate and calm hand, and mrs jutta haug, who has presented us with a very effective strategy for the commission's budget. the great agreement which we hope to have tomorrow at the vote should be a very clear political message for the concertation on 21 november. it is quite clear that it is now that growth, employment, transeuropean networks, lifelong learning, climate protection, european transport networks and the protection of external borders must be shaped in the way we have described them. and in foreign policy, a consistent neighbourhood policy and a global approach to development, crisis management and networking of the european union are more necessary than ever. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the amount of payments will vary widely from one category to another at the end of the procedure. you have spoken about the question of reserves, and i simply say: the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that's a good sign for treatment. we are very pleased, mr jouyet, that the french presidency is here today. the presidency was not always present during the october budget debate. this is a good example of the kind of cooperation we have started. of course, you had to start by sounding like a finance minister: everything is far too expensive, everything is far too high. we are moving, even with what we are voting on, well below the ceiling of multiannual financial planning. but it is already clear from the lines that you are prepared to negotiate, because you said: it is about the food aid facility, and i stress that not only that, but also the other foreign policy priorities - cfsp, kosovo, palestine, afghanistan and georgia - it is about negotiating and finding the optimum combination of instruments. we are prepared to do so, making use of all the possibilities that the interinstitutional agreement and the budgetary legal bases offer us. we are therefore looking forward to constructive negotiations.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i thank all those who took part in the debate. i would like to say to you, madam commissioner, that i know, and we all know, that the commission is never very happy when parliament reserves. we understand that, too, because it's got you wrapped up. but we have this year - and we will reflect this in the vote tomorrow - set conditions for the dissolution of the reserve which you will be able to fulfil on your own. these are not conditions of a cloudless paradise where you need and have to press other people to get your money, but parliament has made a very strong decision. we will be able to resolve these reservations in most cases relatively quickly and speedily by the time of the second reading - i am absolutely convinced of this - because you have fulfilled the conditions we have set. mr president-in-office, i know that you cannot promise us anything concrete in this debate, but i assume that what you have said - that you perceive a climate of cooperation and that you want it - is meant seriously. i would like to make a comment on your request to take account of the fiscal context in which we find ourselves: i think this context is too big a number. our budget is just under 130 billion euros. the margin of manoeuvre which we all have in this house is a few hundred million. we can argue about that now, but it is out of proportion to the larger context you have mentioned. i would like to thank all my colleagues once again. we shall, i believe, be able to carry out the well-prepared vote fairly quickly and expeditiously tomorrow.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i recently read that bosnia is a well-intentioned state that does not work. the country must live with the dayton agreement which ended the war in 1995, thank god . but it is too small to make the whole state function and too large to make it collapse. the country has a political class that is almost unwilling to take responsibility. two politicians in the country dominate the political scene and condition each other like communicating pipes. one wants to return to the pre-1999 period, i.e. to dissolve the two entities. the other, however, wants to turn his entity into a state within a state. the state of bosnia and herzegovina can only function if everyone recognizes the realities and understands that changes to the constitution are possible only in agreement with all three ethnic groups. both entities must strengthen the state as a whole. the european union has also expressed its support for the efforts of the bosnian authorities to bring about a constitutional reform. the croatian muslim federation could be an example. the inefficient structure of municipalities, ten cantons and a federal government, which is not due to it, is absurd. the level of decision-making must be reduced to the minimum necessary and brought as close as possible to the citizens in order to meet the requirements of the stabilisation and association agreement and eu accession in general. about 167 ministers with all that goes with it, the biggest bunch in the state. the rivalry between the two politicians mentioned above and their supporters has fatal consequences. they are mobilizing the ethnic groups against each other in a proven way by creating fear and mistrust. the ethnic divide has become deeper rather than shallower. instead of rapidly tackling a common energy supply, creating a functioning common market, improving the general education system, finally bringing investors into the country through a credible policy, partisan bickering and boundless mistrust dominate the current politics. does sarajevo still need a high-ranking representative? he hasn't used his great powers for a long time. and they shall not fear his word, which shall not be, so one can ask why the eu special representative should not take his place and respect the eu conditionalities so that bosnian politics can finally tackle the most important reforms that are moving the country forward. there can be no greater inaction on the part of politicians than we have now, even after his departure. hopefully, they'll wake up and take charge of their own destiny. the eu has been working for years to bring the country out of its agony with financial resources and know-how. but the results are not overwhelming. the people who want to return are hardly allowed to do so, and the ethnic divide is becoming more and more insurmountable. lack of transparency in privatization and corruption, lack of press freedom in parts of the country, intimidation of ngos, all of this is making many people lose heart and turn their backs on the country. for over three years, the police reform debate dominated the political business as a running theme, until an almost meaningless bill was passed. nevertheless, the eu has taken up this straw and signed the agreement to finally move forward with other important political projects in the country. we in parliament also support this step and expect politicians to seize this opportunity. i would like to emphasize once again that only the entire state of bosnia and herzegovina can become a member of the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper way. i can only appeal to all the regional authorities to think again and to make their policies work for the benefit of their citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not alone. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent cooperation, as usual. this resolution is intended to send a strong signal to our partners in bosnia and herzegovina, a clear cross-party yes to the continuation of the eu accession process, a clear recognition of the progress achieved in this process, but also a clear no to further nationalist or even separatist tendencies, with which only officials defend their position and from which the population suffers. for years, serious return programmes have been agreed only on paper. the actual - and political - will to implement the programme in practice is rather underdeveloped. the right of return and the possibility of return, reconciliation projects and the prosecution of war crimes at all levels are the basic conditions for the hoped-for peaceful, democratic and rule-of-law development in this part of europe. the decisive basis is the replacement of the dayton agreement by a constitution which is not negotiated between party leaders but which is to be adopted by the democratically elected representatives of bosnia and herzegovina, with the involvement of civil society. a request to the commission: leave the conventional path and act as flexibly as possible to use eu funds more efficiently and more precisely! the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to take this opportunity to ask commissioner rehn one more question. can you tell us what the financing situation is for demilitarisation and disarmament and for ensuring the legal destruction of surplus weapons?
president of the council. - mr president, mr macmillan, commissioner rehn, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the richness and interest of this debate. i would like to thank mrs pack again for her very active role, for her knowledge of the region, for her presence on the ground, for listening to the local leaders, which is why we need her cooperation, and for her commitment to closer relations with the european union, but without compromising on values. like her, the council is concerned about the political situation in bosnia and herzegovina - as i said - as described by several of the speakers. this country - as you have pointed out - is at the crossroads of the paths and controversies on relations between the central state and the entities and on the path to the european union, as i said. its leaders must take full responsibility for the development of the country and ensure that the stability of the whole region is consolidated. however, i answer the question that has been asked, that the security situation remains calm. neither the independence of kosovo nor the arrest of mr karadzic has caused any unrest in the country. with the municipal elections on 5 october now over, the eu must now press for bosnia and herzegovina to focus on its european agenda. mr swoboda has given a perfect answer to the summary equations between the fear of terrorism and the multiethnic character of bosnia and herzegovina, which is precisely what makes this country rich, which is precisely what it could bring to the european union! in the future, we will ensure that there is no perception of the european union abandoning bosnia and herzegovina. i would like to reassure mr czarnecki that the european union must decide on the future of the high representative's office, knowing that we do not want either an unconditional premature closure or an artificial extension of that office. as far as the future of the eufor-althea military mission is concerned, we cannot extend it indefinitely. the union will have to reconfigure this mission and the foreign ministers will have to discuss it at the council meeting on 10 november. in conclusion, and in response to several speakers, i would say that the situation in bosnia and herzegovina must be placed in a regional context. our aim is to enable the whole region to make progress towards closer relations with the european union. a number of positive developments should be noted in this respect. the fact that croatia is entering an active phase of negotiations is a good thing. the fact that we have in serbia, for the first time, a government committed to closer relations with the european union and which has given, with the arrest of karadzic, guarantees of its commitment is a very positive element and should be welcomed. the bosnian leaders must be careful not to remain aloof from this development, thinking only of the settlement of accounts inherited from past wars. like mr macmillan, i attended the speech of françois mitterrand in this chamber. i also remember his words. but we must overcome these conflicts, in the name of the same principles that president mitterrand stressed at the time. in conclusion, the reforms demanded by the european union are not only aimed at bringing the country closer to the european union, but above all at ensuring that all citizens of this country benefit from the progress we are trying to promote. and i agree with mr maaten. it is clear that we can be proud to be europeans, proud of what the commission and the other institutions are doing to help bosnia and herzegovina on the only path that is justified, that is to say the path of rapprochement, in accordance with values, with the european union!
member of the commission.− mr president, firstly i would like to thank you for a very substantive and responsible debate on the political situation in bosnia and herzegovina. i also want to thank you for your broad and strong support for the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement with the country. it is indeed essential for the economic development and political stability of bosnia and herzegovina, as well as for its european objectives. there were two issues in particular which came up in the debate today that i would like to comment further on. the first is the rule of law and its importance in underpinning the whole society and the economy. the rule of law and legal certainty are the cornerstone of the european model. this is, unfortunately, another achilles heel of bosnia and herzegovina today. despite some progress which we recognise, organised crime and corruption remain a serious concern in the country and it should address these challenges as a matter of urgency. secondly, on constitutional reform we all know that it is both necessary and delicate. from the commission side, i can say that we envisage constitutional evolution rather than revolution, which can be done and should be done in respect of the dayton-paris peace agreement. the commission does not have a blueprint for a certain kind of constitutional reform in bosnia and herzegovina, but at the same time we are certainly stakeholders as the european union. we are all stakeholders in this constitutional reform in the sense that it is absolutely essential that bosnia and herzegovina be able to speak with one voice as a future member state, as a candidate country, with the european union and in the european union and that the country needs to have an effective and functional state structure, institutional structure, which is capable of implementing and enforcing european laws and rules throughout the country. this is what its citizens want and what they deserve. it is up to the political leaders and citizens of the country to decide what kind of constitution they want, but i can assure you that the commission is willing to assist a constitutional reform with both legal and constitutional expertise and with financial assistance. in a nutshell,bosnia and herzegovina today needs urgently to overcome the current political stalemate, to move seriously towards the european union. we cannot do this for them, but we can make the point to the citizens and leaders of the country that we want and expect them to succeed and we support them in this interval. the commission – and i – will therefore continue to work with the presidency, with javier solana, with the european parliament and all other partners and stakeholders to reinforce our engagement so that next year, 2009, could still, after all, be a year for the western balkans,and also a year for bosnia and herzegovina to make progress towards the european union.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to say to my colleague who is no longer here, and perhaps also to mr belders: we should be careful here, we should not locate the terrorist threat in bosnia and herzegovina. it is also possible to exaggerate, and this exaggeration only plays into the hands of the extremists and the nationalists. i remember that it was precisely these exaggerations that brought milosevic to where he brought everyone. we should all keep that in mind. the road to the eu requires, among other things, a determined fight against corruption, against organised crime, for transparency in privatisation, the creation of a common market, including and especially an energy market. only politicians who really want to do this and act on it will earn the trust of their citizens, but also the trust of the european union. we should show the others the red card every now and then! that's all they understand! i am sometimes shocked to see bosnia and herzegovina at the crossroads described by commissioner rehn, choosing the path of isolation. the neighbouring countries of bosnia and herzegovina - as hannes swoboda has also said - will very likely reach their destination more quickly. that is why it is our task to continue to help bosnia and herzegovina to find the right path and then to join the european union when it has fulfilled the conditions. the stability of bosnia and herzegovina, which is in the middle of the european union, is also our stability! i sometimes wish that the politicians in bosnia and herzegovina, when they think about their country, had as many sleepless nights as i do. maybe they'd work better.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have chosen to make my contribution from almost the same starting point as mr tannock. it doesn't happen that often. the past is the prologue of the future. this is in washington, at the entrance to the national archives, and for good reason. and that line is accompanied by the hope that people can learn from history. it happens sometimes. it doesn't always happen. we can at least try. i have repeatedly noted - and the holodomor proposal was one of the occasions for me to note this - that not all the chapters of the history of the last century in europe are equally well known in the east and the west. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but when we asked, we found that most of our colleagues did not know what the holodomor actually meant, what it stood for. it is perhaps the beginning of a shared learning about such a terrible part of history that took place in the middle of europe, not even a century ago, but just a little more than half a century ago, and where we now have the chance to perhaps write history with survivors correctly. we in the green group are putting the commemoration of the victims of this tragedy at the heart of this pledge, of the signing of the resolution. we believe that knowledge of this tragedy, of this great crime of the soviet regime, is the prerequisite for a proper appreciation of the victims. secondly, we want to see a joint coverage of this story in ukraine and russia. what we do not want - and i say this as a german who was born in the 1950s - is that the treatment of this history and a good, proper history deepen the gulf between peoples. we do not want this either within ukraine or between ukraine and russia. i therefore regard the opening of the archives as an important prerequisite. this is the demand that must be enforced. the council of europe should also discuss the possibility of moscow opening its archives to this end. i am very pleased that the european parliament has succeeded in reaching a position of agreement on this. i would like to see ukraine really focusing on writing history, on honouring the victims, and not exploiting this disaster. and then we would be a big step closer to actually wanting people to learn from the past.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i speak to you as someone who has spent many years of his life in ukraine, who has lived there and who is, of course, particularly moved by that. there is no single reason, no single way of relativizing or justifying the famine of 1932/33. it concerned ukraine, russia, in particular the volga, don and kuban areas, western siberia, the southern urals and the northern part of kazakhstan. millions of people of different nationalities - ukrainians, russians, kazakhs, jews, germans, belarusians, tatars, and many others - starved to death. we must remember these victims and recognize that this famine was the expression and result of a policy of inhumanity, the crime of starving one's own people and at the same time exporting grain. why can i not agree to this joint resolution? firstly, the resolution refers this disaster and these crimes only to ukraine and to people of ukrainian nationality. i did it at the beginning: this is not the historical truth! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly, this resolution recognizes the holodomor as genocide. the genocide is characterized by ethnic criteria. this includes the holocaust in particular. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and the recognition of this singularity has been largely democratic consensus. the necessary severity of the condemnation of these events in the soviet union does not require such an equivalent. i am convinced that this was also the main reason for the statement of the israeli ambassador to ukraine, ms. kalay-kleitman, who said in an interview with the "serkalo nedeli": israel cannot recognize the holodomor as an act of ethnic genocide. thirdly, 10 december 2008 is the 60th anniversary of the united nations declaration of human rights. human rights are universal and indivisible. they must not be dealt with selectively, opportunistically or instrumentally. the twentieth century has seen a devastating number of horrendous crimes worldwide that are incomparable, but which nevertheless resulted in the death of millions of innocent people: the first world war, the fascist invasion, japan's aggression against china and korea, the us atomic bombing of hiroshima and nagasaki, stalin's policy against its own people, the rage of various colonial powers in their spheres of influence, the terror of the khmer rouge, the slaughter of tutsis and hutus. this appalling list is hardly limitless. the european parliament should have an interest in condemning such inhumanities in all their forms. fourthly, there must never again be famine - neither for political reasons nor for economic reasons. the outgoing chairman of welthungerhilfe, ingeborg schäuble, has called for a rescue package against world hunger in view of the billions of dollars in aid funds for banks. the eu is committed to supporting the development of the world's most vulnerable people, including those who are most vulnerable to poverty, and to supporting the development of the world's most vulnerable people. in 2007, this rose to 923 million people. let us do everything we can to eradicate hunger as well as the plague!
i have to say, madam president, the european union, along with many other countries, has recognised the catastrophe which occurred in ukraine in 1932/33, known as the holodomor, as a crime against the ukrainian people. the united nations general assembly also adopted a resolution in 2007 commemorating the victims of the holodomor and condemning the regime. the stalinist-communist regime in the soviet union created an artificial food shortage in order to force ukraine into its agrarian planned economy. this goal was more important to the rulers of that time than the preservation of human life. no consideration was given to the population, and millions of people suffered a painful death. thus, the holodomor was not a natural disaster but was planned and executed by humans in cold blood. i very much welcome the debate taking place today. a thorough investigation of the crimes and a public outing are the only ways to deal with the past. opening the archives is an important first step in the right direction. this applies not only to ukraine but to all other countries that were under soviet communist rule, and of course to russia itself. experience in the handling of archives has shown that general and public access is not enough. it is more about providing assistance in finding information. this can be done, for example, by opening documentation centres and employing historians. crimes cannot be undone, but they must be remembered - and especially their victims. the global recognition of the holodomor as a mass murder of the ukrainian people and elsewhere has great significance for world politics. this could set a precedent for many other peoples whose histories have been marked by mass murder. in any case, the european union is sending a clear message to russia by recalling and condemning the crime that has been committed. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. after this very moving subject, we now turn to the technical side. tomorrow we will be voting on the directive on airport charges at second reading. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. what's this about? the directive has established uniform principles and procedures for setting airport charges throughout europe. in this respect, the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the agreement between ryanair and ams. an independent national supervisory authority can settle conflicts that arise according to clear rules. this will strengthen the system partnership between airports and airlines and prevent possible abuse of market power. what was the initial situation? for more than 15 years we have tried in two different ways to resolve the conflicts of interest between airports and airlines in this area. the fact that we have not succeeded in doing so is partly due to the fact that we have very different procedures and structures in the member states. for example, in the uk there is a strict regulatory authority that can set ceilings, in five member states we have airport networks and the practice of cross-subsidisation, we even have parliaments that decide on airport charges, decentralised powers in germany and more. we have nevertheless succeeded in negotiating a viable compromise with the council. what are the components of this compromise? we have defined the scope for airports with more than five million passengers a year and the largest airports in a member state. this means that the directive currently applies to 69 airports in the european union. we have introduced a system of regular consultation between airports and airlines, and we have at the same time established a structured mediation procedure with time limits, and of course the supervisory authority, which i have already mentioned. what do we mean by fair wages? the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the conditions laid down in the guidelines on state aid for rescuing and restructuring firms in difficulty. at the same time, there is a strict prohibition of discrimination. this basically means that we have the same charges for the same services for every airline at the same airport. there are certainly ways of differentiating. i am glad that we have made this possible, above all, for noise and pollutant emissions. in some countries, there will continue to be common charging systems for the above-mentioned airport networks, but also for so-called airport systems in urban and urban areas. but even these must comply with the directive's requirement of transparency. we have tried to meet some of the concerns of our colleagues from the eastern european member states by offering the possibility of prefinancing infrastructure on a fee basis. this will be possible, albeit difficult due to national criteria, provided that the requirements of icao standards are met. what do we expect from the effects? more competition between european airports, more competition between the different airlines at an airport, perhaps a tendency to lower ticket prices if the airlines pass on the lower fares to the passengers. the directive must be implemented within two years. i thank all the shadow rapporteurs, the slovenian presidency and the commission for the successful negotiations.
madam president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think the speaker just didn't understand the dossier. we are making rules here for transparent rules on the setting of airport charges, and the point of the whole thing is to set airport charges objectively and to reduce them in favour of the consumer. that's our job! there are two different situations. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the agreement between ryanair and ams. there are other, possibly smaller airports where an airline can decide how little it wants to pay as airport charges before being asked whether it wants to use it or not. so it's a completely different situation. i should therefore like to say that what mr stockmann has done in his report - and i thank him for it - is to set out a good set of criteria for determining what the correct, substantially justified airport charges are, which are also payable by the passenger. we have independent national supervisory authorities to monitor this. mr president, you must of course ensure that the national supervisory authorities are really independent over the next two years. this means that the national regulatory authorities are neither linked to the airports nor co-owned with the airlines. we insist that the regulatory authorities strike a fair balance between airlines and airports in favour of consumers. secondly, we want to make competition between airports fairer by means of these new criteria. sometimes there are airports in two different member states, a few kilometres from the common border. we want to make sure that there's no unfair competition here. i therefore think that the new criteria are correct. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i believe it is almost two years since the commission adopted guidelines for regional airports. the commission has now, in recent months, investigated whether there have been unlawful subsidies at some airports, namely state subsidies to one or another airport which distort competition. i think we'd all like to know what your results are. we hope that you will promise us today that you will present the inquiry into the question of whether regional aid is permissible or not, because one of the main themes is that we want fairness between airports for the benefit of passengers.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - madam president, i have to say that i am very sorry. i would like to thank all my colleagues once again for the really constructive cooperation and also for the exciting discussions. i'm hoping for a big support tomorrow. i think it's late, the words have been exchanged enough. let action follow tomorrow! i would be glad if we could conclude the legislative procedure at second reading. (applause from the centre)
ombudsman.− madam president, thank you for this opportunity to address parliament on the annual report of the european ombudsman for 2007. i also wish to thank the rapporteur, mrs zdravkova, and the committee on petitions for their excellent and constructive report. my report records progress in handling complaints, promoting good administration and providing knowledge about the ombudsman’s role. the number of admissible complaints increased, in both absolute and relative terms, from 449 (12% of the total) in 2006 to 518 (16% of the total) in 2007. we therefore met both of the objectives which parliament has consistently emphasised: increasing the number of admissible complaints and reducing the number of inadmissible complaints. the main types of maladministration alleged in admissible complaints were: lack of transparency, including refusal of information; unfairness or abuse of power; unsatisfactory procedures; avoidable delay; discrimination; negligence; legal error; andfailure to ensure fulfilment of obligations. three hundred and forty-eight decisions closing inquiries were made. that represents a 40% increase compared to 2006. in 95 cases, the inquiry revealed no maladministration. such a finding is not always negative for the complainant, who at least has the benefit of a full explanation from the institution concerned. even when maladministration is not found, i may identify opportunities to improve the quality of administration provided by institutions. if so, i point them out in a further remark. many of my inquiries result in a positive sum outcome that satisfies both the complainant and the institution complained against. one hundred and twenty-nine cases were settled by the institution concerned to the satisfaction of the complainant. that is double the number of cases settled in this way in 2006, and reflects a growing willingness on the part of institutions and bodies to regard complaints made to the ombudsman as an opportunity to recognise and put right mistakes that have occurred. when i find maladministration, i try to achieve a friendly solution. in some cases, this can be achieved by the institution or body concerned by offering compensation to the complainant. any such offer is made ex gratia,or in other words without admission of legal liability and without creating a legal precedent. when a friendly solution is not possible i close the case with a critical remark. a critical remark is also appropriate if it is no longer possible for the instance of maladministration to be eliminated. it confirms that the complaint is justified and indicates to the institution or body concerned what it is has done wrong. such a criticism is intended to be constructive, so as to help avoid similar maladministration in the future. it is important for institutions and bodies to follow up critical remarks and to take prompt action to resolve outstanding problems. to better monitor the impact of my criticism, i launched a study of the follow-up to all critical remarks, and to the cases involving a further remark, made in 2006. the results of that study, published on my website and sent to all the bodies concerned, should provide encouragement to the european public service to improve practices and further develop a culture of service to citizens. in cases where it is still possible to eliminate the instance of maladministration, i normally make a draft recommendation to the institution or body. if it fails to respond satisfactorily, i may send a special report to parliament. i submitted one such report to you criticising the commission for not dealing with an infringement complaint concerning the european working time directive. i welcome parliament’s support, as expressed in your resolution of 3 september 2008, based on mr de rossa’s report. this year, i have again included star cases in my annual report. these are cases where i consider that institutions or bodies involved responded to my inquiries in an exemplary fashion. seven such star cases are highlighted. four of these concerned the commission, one concerned the council, one the european central bank and one the european aviation safety agency. i have continued to make every effort to ensure that eu institutions and bodies adopt a citizen-centred approach in all their activities, by seeking every opportunity to achieve friendly solutions and by launching more own-initiative inquiries in order to identify problems and encourage best practice. i would now like to mention some other activities undertaken with a view to ensuring the best possible service to citizens. i have continued my efforts to improve the quality of information concerning rights under eu law, provided especially through the european network of ombudsmen. that network, which includes the petitions committee, cooperates in case handling and in sharing experiences and best practice. one of the purposes of the network is to facilitate the rapid transfer of complaints which are admissible for me to a competent ombudsman or similar body. when possible, i transfer cases directly or give suitable advice to the complainant. during 2007 i was able to help 867 complainants in this manner. a further important initiative which should come to fruition within the next quarter of the year is that my office is developing an interactive guide to help citizens find the most appropriate avenue of redress for their grievances. this guide should enable an even greater proportion of complainants to address directly the body best equipped to deal with the complaint. complaints which are inadmissible for me will therefore be resolved more promptly and effectively. my institution will then be better able to fulfil its core role –to help citizens who are unhappy with the way they are being treated by eu institutions and bodies. the ombudsman cannot work alone. ensuring a top-class administration is a task that must be fulfilled proactively in cooperation with eu institutions and bodies. the increased settlement of cases and friendly solutions is a source of encouragement and serves as an indication of our mutual efforts to contribute to building citizens’ trust, vis-à-vis the union, at a point in time where that is greatly needed. i am also deeply grateful for parliament’s support and guidance, both in terms of the budgetary resources you provide my institution with and in terms of the positive relationship i enjoy with the petitions committee. with your continued support, i will endeavour to build on the achievements of this past year. finally, as this is the last occasion during this parliamentary term that i have the honour of presenting my annual report to this house, i would like to put on record my deep appreciation for the close cooperation and good advice that i have received from parliament and individual members during the past four and a half years. (applause)
member of the commission.− madam president, on behalf of the commission and of my colleague, vice-president wallström, let me thank the rapporteur mrs zdravkova for her excellent work. we welcome the committee on petitions’ report about the ombudsman’s annual report on his activities in 2007. as you know, this commission has made a strong commitment to improving its administration, and we are improving. we can see that, both from the ombudsman’s annual report and from the committee on petitions report. in 2007 the number of cases in which an institution or a body actually put an end to maladministration practices as a result of a complaint lodged with the ombudsman doubled. this reflects the willingness of institutions – including, definitely, the commission – and bodies to regard complaints as an opportunity to correct errors and cooperate with the ombudsman in the public interest. also, the number of cases in which no maladministration practice was established increased. the commission is happy about this, since we are the institution that receives most of these complaints. i also want to underline the fact that the ombudsman has been proposing an increasing number of friendly solutions in order to settle disputes and that, overall, the commission has been cooperative and appreciative of this type of proposal, wherever possible. in 2007, only one special report concerning the commission was submitted to parliament by the ombudsman, and the ombudsman mentioned this. but i would like to remind you that this special report concerns the working time directive, and it was only last month that you had a discussion on that with my colleague vladimir špidla. let me conclude with three specific points which are touched upon in your report as well as the ombudsman’s annual report. first, on infringements. as you are aware, the commission has reorganised its decision-taking on infringements, with a view to facilitating the progress of cases. this was presented in the 2007 communication ‘a europe of results – applying community law’. we are following up cases more actively and organising the work more effectively for citizens. also, an eu pilot project has been launched. more solutions to problems should be found more quickly. second, on the call for eu institutions and bodies to adopt a common approach towards a european code of good administrative behaviour. i want to draw your attention to the fact that the commission has its own code of good administrative behaviour, adopted in 2000. this code still constitutes a modern and very effective instrument. its implementation is wellestablished. i do not want to prejudge the future, but for the time being we want to keep things that way. third, regarding the communication policy. the idea of launching an information campaign for european citizens to help them find out more about the duties and competences of the european ombudsman is definitely welcomed by the commission. each institution, including the european commission, also has its own website, where complaints and petitions may be lodged. the europa website is common to all eu institutions and has links to all other eu institutions, including the ombudsman’s website. in this way, citizens are easily and smoothly directed to the bodies able to settle their grievances and complaints. the idea of an interactive manual designed to assist citizens in identifying the most suitable forum for resolving their problems is well worth studying much more closely. because in all this, we should never lose sight of who comes first and who we do all this for: the european citizens.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. madam president, mr ombudsman, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to congratulate mrs zdravkova on her report - if i am not mistaken, it is her first report - and i would like to thank her for the work she has done. it is an excellent basis for consultation and discussion on the results of the work you, mr diamandouros, have done in the past year. this report is in some ways a follow-up to the report i had the pleasure of producing for the european parliament in the same place two years ago. they then set up their liaison network with the national ombudsmen and committees on petitions, and as i have seen in the report, this liaison network has been very well received by the european citizens who are at the heart of their task. your campaign, which has led to more complaints being allowed, is also a successful example of the value of efforts to educate citizens about their rights and the possibilities of seeking help. i also very much welcome the fact that the report - like the report by mr mavrommatis a few years ago - recognises that the informal procedures, which you are now putting more emphasis on, are bringing success because they reduce the time spent on formalities. it is desirable that you continue to pursue this citizen-centred approach. the european parliament has been a very active and sensitive institution in europe over the past year, both in the area of the working time directive and in the internal organisation of the european parliament. of course, it is not always easy for you to find the right words, but weaknesses must be identified with a certain amount of time and the appropriate restraint by the ombudsman, and the point is that we are ultimately serving the european citizens together. mr diamandouros, you have made a good contribution to this last year.
i am not going to go into detail. twenty years ago, in 1988, the european parliament created the sakharov prize for freedom of thought, which we have been awarding annually ever since. over the past 20 years, we have honoured exceptional individuals or organisations, often at the risk of their lives, who have worked for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and who have fought against intolerance, bigotry and oppression in their own countries or around the world. the first recipient was nelson mandela, whom i will be visiting in johannesburg next week as part of an invitation to speak before the pan-african parliament. this year, the conference of presidents decided to award the 2008 sakharov prize 'in the name of the repressed voices in china and tibet', as stated in the draft resolution of the committee on foreign affairs, to hu jiazu. (applause from the centre) born on 25 july 1973 in beijing, hu jia is one of the most ardent defenders of human rights in the people's republic of china. the committed and committed activist is now being criticised for his commitment to the environment, his fight against the dangers of aids and hiv and for his respect for human rights. on 27 december 2007, hu jia was placed under house arrest on charges of inciting subversion of state power. on april 3, 2008, he was sentenced to three and a half years in prison. in the solitude of his prison cell, hu jia is fighting his illness alone today. he's suffering from cirrhosis of the liver, but is being denied regular medical attention for all we know. the arbitrary arrest and conviction of hu jias has caused many reactions around the world. by awarding the sakharov prize to hu jia, the european parliament is firmly and resolutely recognising the daily struggle for freedom of all human rights defenders in china. (applause from the centre) i am not going to go into detail. i have another brief explanation. tomorrow, 24 october, we will be celebrating the 63rd anniversary of the founding of the united nations. i would like to take this opportunity to highlight the extent, commitment and success of the cooperation between the european union, the european parliament and the various programmes and agencies of the united nations. the recent publication entitled 'improving lives' that you have all received takes stock of the cooperation that has been established over the past few years. the last few weeks have been difficult for the world, particularly in the context of the financial crisis and its drastic impact on the world economy. it is in this context that the values of multilateral understanding and solidarity which underpin the european union are of great importance. the same applies to our commitment and responsibility to the developing countries. the international conference on financing for development, to be held in november, will also play a decisive role in this respect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. the declaration is the same as every year. before the vote, some technical adjustments must be made. i know that the colleagues are not really interested in this, but we just need it for the record. firstly, as already stated in the voting list, the vote on amendment no 783 to budget line 22 02 04 02 concerns only payment appropriations. secondly, the explanatory notes on the global energy assessment are not on budget line 08 03 01, where they were added by mistake, but on line 08 05 01. amendment no 936 to row 08 03 01 therefore needs to be voted on without the global energy assessment explanations. these are instead included in amendment no 938 on line 08 05 01. i know how the excitement swells up here. thirdly, the re-allocation of the appropriations in the preliminary draft budget for the decentralized agencies to their titles in lines 1 and 2 naturally includes the re-establishment of their establishment plans. this concerns the agency for medicinal products, the agency for chemicals and chemicals, the aviation safety agency, the maritime safety agency, the railway agency, the environment agency, the centre for the promotion of vocational training, the food safety authority, the fisheries control authority and the community plant variety office, whose job lists are not explicitly included in the documents containing the amendments. fourthly: the legal service has indicated that a clarification adopted on several budget lines needs to be slightly modified. this concerns the sentence starting with 'the commission may' and ending with 'and the commission's internal auditor may' in the following amendments: amendment 994 to row 19 04 01, amendment 1011 to row 21 02 01, amendment 1015 to row 21 03 01, amendment 1016 to row 21 04 01, amendment 1026 to row 23 02 01 and amendment 785 to row 23 02 02. the correct version of this statement is given in the voting list. fifthly, because of a technical problem, budget line 19 06 06 entitled 'consular cooperation' is not included in the amendments, although it was adopted as part of letter of amendment no 1/2009. this new budget line is therefore inserted with an entry for p.m. so if none of the members objects to anything i have just said, the bureau will put it in the order we have decided.
mrs jutta haug, since we have great confidence in you, we can vote on this now. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) before the vote on amendment no 111
i am not saying that we should not be concerned. mr dunstan is telling me that the first part has been cancelled and we have voted on the second part. before the vote on block 8
the rapporteur deserves to be congratulated on this.
i am not going to go into detail. i am very pleased to welcome the members of the delegation of the parliament of the republic of moldova to strasbourg for the 11th meeting of the parliamentary cooperation committee moldova - european union, which took place yesterday and today. the fact that you are here with us in the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, proves that parliamentary dialogue is the best way to strengthen our relations and to find solutions to outstanding issues in the eastern neighbours of the european union. we wish you all the best in the elections next year and for your work now and in the future. welcome back to the club. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the continuation of the voting period.
yes, i see the house is in. we shall vote on it again.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not alone. i would like to make a motion on behalf of the epp group. we in parliament are quite clearly agreed on two points: firstly, we want to be involved in the procedure for these new technical variants. this cannot be decided without parliament! i thank commissioner tajani for his assurance. secondly, we all know that this new technological measure is very sensitive. we have a lot of concerns. the criteria for possible application must be clearly defined. the commission has already done so. i would like to propose today on behalf of the epp that we take four weeks to postpone the vote to november because commissioner tajani has announced that he will hold a major hearing on the matter in november. the epp believes that before making a decision, one should listen to the facts. i hope we get a majority for this. that is why we are asking for the vote to be postponed until november.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to express my opposition to this motion for the following reasons: the hearing with mr tajani will certainly give us the opportunity to obtain additional information and to define our position. but what we are doing with this resolution is telling the council - which already decided at the last justice and home affairs council - that in our view - at least for my group - security and security measures are indispensable. but it is an absolutely unacceptable measure when scanners are used, that is to say, visual devices which completely expose and depict the naked human being! this is a violation of human dignity and it does not increase security! (applause from the left and from the centre) it is simply necessary to see that the security mania that is being operated here is best manifested there. we want to send a clear signal with this resolution that we are against such measures, which are extremely controversial from a medical point of view! we therefore ask that mr weber's request be rejected. (applause from the centre)
thank you, thank you. the alde group has called for a roll-call vote on this motion. (parliament rejected the request for an adjournment of the vote)
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. i have an oral amendment to paragraph 22 which has been agreed with the other members. we must correct the text because it does not entirely correspond to the truth. we should change the sentence after the missing persons institute behind the semicolon, to the way i'm reading it now in english:urges the corresponding urgencies at the entity level to support the work of the state-level bodies by forwarding to them all the relevant information they gather;.
so this is number 22. i see no contradiction in that. we'll vote on it this way. (parliament adopted the oral amendment)
(parliament adopted the oral amendment) the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i have to say, madam president, as always, doris pack has presented an excellent text, for she is not only an expert on south-east europe but also on education. i welcome the fact that the education item is given special emphasis in the context of the stability pact. but we must take our approaches further, first of all by working even more intensively to ensure that visa liberalisation is finally pushed forward and that young people in bosnia and herzegovina really have the opportunity to get to know europe by studying and travelling. secondly, it is crucial that we establish in sarajevo a european multi-religious university, supported by all three religious communities in the country, which can be a european centre of tolerance and mutual learning - not on the basis of indifference but on the basis of being rooted in one's own religion. the people of bosnia and herzegovina, with our intensive support as a european university, can not only make great progress for themselves, but bosnia and herzegovina could also send a signal to the whole continent.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the brutal murder of mr soto is the provisional culmination of a dramatic decline in democracy and the rule of law in venezuela, which for a time played a positive role in latin america. but under the present regime, not only are basic human rights being trampled on, but a megalomaniac dictator is even trying to export his inhuman terror system across the continent and beyond it, even to europe, if you consider his connections to belarus. it is therefore urgent that we fall into his arms, for the benefit of his own people, but also for the benefit of those peoples whom he is trying to buy or blackmail, so to speak, with his oil wealth, in order to make them subservient to his ideological ideas. if he is arguing here about national sovereignty, then i can only say that there is something that is above any national sovereignty, and that is the elementary and universal human rights!
on behalf of the authors. - mr president, i have to say something. the congo is suffering what europe suffered after the 30 years of war, when all statehood had disintegrated. the congo is suffering from this. there are uniformed gangs on the move, one part of these gangs calls itself the "official army", another part of these gangs calls itself the "private army", in fact they are all bands of robbers who plunder the country, murder people, rape and rob at the expense of the civilian population. the congo will not find peace until a minimum of statehood has been restored regionally and supraregionally. the european union must therefore first provide humanitarian aid, and secondly ensure that there is a minimum of state security and existence in that country. we are far from that, and the intervention that took place there apparently did not have the success we wanted. that is why it is urgent that we think about how we can stabilize this heart of africa again by all possible peaceful means and, if necessary, also by military means with peacekeeping forces, it is not yet that far, but we must discuss it. because when you look at the congo, and i've had the opportunity to fly over the congo many times, you know that the congo touches all parts of africa equally in a way that no other african country does. there will be no stable african continent without a stable congo, and that is why we are here in a very special commitment.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 23 october 2008.
i am not going to go into detail. the euromedscola programme was completed here in strasbourg today and yesterday. we were delighted to welcome over 250 young people aged 16 to 18 from across the euro-mediterranean area, i.e. the union for the mediterranean, including the 27 member states of the european union and the partner countries in the region, i.e. 37 countries. the contestants have now taken their seats in the upper grandstand. in the last two days they have discussed a whole range of issues, such as the environment, immigration, equality, the role of citizens, education and many other issues. this is an expression of cooperation between the european union and the southern mediterranean countries. there are also students from israel, palestine, the arab states and all the countries of the european union, and i would like to welcome our young friends to the podium. it's been a great time, and i'm grateful to have met you. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 13 november, has been distributed in accordance with rules 130 and 131. the following amendment was proposed to this draft: wednesday: the socialist group requests that a statement by the council and the commission on the situation of the automobile industry be included on the agenda for wednesday morning. it should be noted that if this item is added, the oral question on the review of the recommendation on minimum criteria for environmental inspections in the member states will have to be moved to thursday's agenda tomorrow.
we'll take that under advisement. i cannot and will not reassure you, but i can tell you that even letters i write, which are kept in my office in strict confidence, sometimes get out in the open. this is a process which is not confined to you alone, but is regrettable in other cases as well. we are aware of that and will look into it.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
i am not going to go into detail. it is a great pleasure to welcome to the visitors' gallery a group of former members of the first freely elected parliament of the gdr. this parliament has gone down in history books for having decided to reunify germany, only to dissolve itself a little later. the delegation is headed by the then president of parliament, mrs sabine bergmann-pohl. i welcome you to the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu-russia summit in nice last friday decided to continue negotiations on a new partnership agreement with russia from 2 december. this is despite the concerns expressed by some member states and the uncertainty surrounding some issues, such as the way forward in georgia and the caucasus. i am very concerned about developments in russia. the duma has now, in complete opacity, approved the extension of the president's term of office to six years. human rights continue to be trampled on. as is shown by the case of a former employee of mikhail khodorkovsky, who has been imprisoned for five years, ms swetlana bachmina, who is still denied early release from a siberian prison camp, despite being heavily pregnant. the european union must not engage in negotiations with russia's attempts to blackmail it in the energy sector and must clearly address human rights abuses.
mr president, since you have addressed me personally, i would like to point out that the european parliament held a very impressive commemoration of the night of the reichsprogrom in brussels last monday. as far as my party membership is concerned, i am here as president and not as a member of a party, although i feel, of course, bound to my party. but you'll have to ask the people in charge. so this is not a question that can be put to the president.
that concludes this item.
we shall now debate: ten years of economic and monetary union - achievements and challenges. i would like to congratulate the prime minister and finance minister of luxembourg and the president of the eurogroup, mr jean-claude juncker. welcome to the european parliament! (applause from the centre) it is, of course, a pleasure to welcome the commissioner responsible, mr joaquín almunia, here as well.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i welcome the representatives of the euro zone, the prime minister and the monetary commissioner. if we take stock, we can say that the euro was a complete success in its first ten years. not everything went smoothly, but the institutions have proven themselves in the recent financial crisis. based on the institutional cooperation of the euro area, the decisions were quick to prepare, quick to implement and, in particular, exemplary for all 27 member states. we have submitted a report with 62 detailed points, including balance sheet and outlook. mrs berès has already commented on some of the points in the outlook. i'd like to add to that. the euro's positive response raises the question: what next? is the euro area and the european central bank immune to the challenges ahead? there are certainly some challenges that need to be analysed. i would like to remind you of the different developments in competitiveness in the euro area, because the secret is that we have a centralised monetary policy, but a decentralised budgetary and financial policy. the stability and growth pact can only function as an anchor between these two levels if the member states are prepared to adhere to it, accept the conditions and exercise the necessary discipline. the stability and growth pact is therefore facing its first major test in dealing with the financial crisis. i believe that the necessary flexibility is in place and that there can be temporary exceptions in extreme cases, but not a general suspension of the stability and growth pact. the other question is: what about the debt? the financial markets package was put in place quickly, governments acted, and the commission, too, has shown its ability to act in the crisis. but the question is: are we now abandoning the principles that have helped to stabilize the euro, or are we succeeding in developing and maintaining these principles? we have also made a number of proposals which i cannot and will not list because of the surprisingly short time limit which i have been given. but the fact is that we in the external representation of the euro - we fully support the position of the luxembourg prime minister and president of the eurozone - need a more competent and unified external representation of the euro. i was surprised that mr juncker, as president of the eurogroup, was not invited to the recent summit in washington. i say this quite openly because it is contrary to all positive developments. we also want the european parliament to be properly involved, and we have a point of discussion which we have been discussing for a long time, namely the question: is increased coordination of budgetary and financial policy sufficient or, as france believes, is it not enough and should instead be provided for an institutionalised form of so-called economic government, which is highly controversial in germany? which is the right way? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need the necessary discipline from the member states, otherwise the euro could be in permanent trouble, and nobody wants that. a heartfelt thank you to all those responsible. parliament is prepared to cooperate intensively and we are confident that this report will help to set the tone.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the eurogroup: first of all, i would like to express my thanks, the thanks of the commission, to the two rapporteurs, to mrs berès, to mr langen and to all those who have worked on this excellent report. i think it is very welcome that the report on the 10th anniversary of economic and monetary union is of such quality, and it is welcome that the cooperation between the various political groups has shown a high degree of cohesion in this parliament, which i think is another asset, another positive element in economic and monetary union, both in its present and its future. it is ten years of economic and monetary union. that was the basis of our analysis, that was the basis of the report drawn up by the commission services, that was the basis of the commission communication which i had the honour of presenting to you here on 7 may. but the tenth anniversary of the euro and of economic and monetary union coincides with an exceptionally difficult and complex economic situation and allows us to analyse economic and monetary union in the light of the usefulness of the euro, our single currency, our degree of integration, in dealing with a situation like this, which we have never known before. and the conclusion: just as the conclusion on the balance sheet of the first ten years of the euro is a very positive one, so too is the conclusion on the usefulness of economic and monetary union in dealing with the present situation. we live in difficult times, but we have in our hands an extraordinarily useful tool to deal with them. the consequences of the analysis i presented to you here on 7 may, the conclusions of our communication, the conclusions of your report, must of course be put into practice if this instrument is to be useful at a time like the present and i agree with the two rapporteurs that coordination is a key element. coordination was also discussed at the washington meeting this weekend. without coordination we cannot deal with the situation effectively. no one can solve their economic problems in a situation like the present without coordinating their economic policies. we saw this a few weeks ago when we were faced with the risk of a collapse of the financial system; we are seeing it now when we are faced with a recession in most of our economies and when we are facing for the first time in our lives the risk of even deflation. budgetary policies must be coordinated; the report on economic and monetary union speaks of the need to deepen budgetary surveillance, to deepen the way in which fiscal and budgetary policies are coordinated - as mr langen said, also taking into account sustainability elements - as mrs berès said, taking into account the quality of public finances, taking into account that we have a system of rules which is the stability and growth pact revised in 2005, a remarkably useful revision now, because it has allowed us, in times of economic recovery, to make progress in fiscal consolidation, and the euro area ended 2007 almost in balance - for the first time in its history, with a deficit of 0.6 - 0.7% - but now it allows us to have sufficient flexibility for fiscal policy to contribute to supporting demand, as monetary policy should also do. the conclusions of our report are particularly useful now, when we are reflecting on the need to link budgetary policies with structural reforms, and in this respect i share the view of mrs berès: the lisbon programmes, the national reform programmes must be revised and adapted, just as the stability and convergence programmes of the member states must be adapted and revised to the present situation. we shall be discussing this in the coming months and, to this end, the commission will, as you know, present on 26 april an action plan incorporating, or will incorporate, objectives, instruments, policies and commitments which lead to the need to adapt national programmes in an attempt to bring national policies into line and make them consistent with a strategy, policies and instruments at european level and to strengthen - i agree with you, i agree with the report - the external dimension of the euro and of economic and monetary union. mr juncker knows very well that we must have a strategy in our relations with multilateral organizations and in our relations with our main partners capable of defending our interests as a currency, capable of defending our interests as an economic and monetary union, capable of defending the economic interests of the european union. this strategy must be based on principles, priorities, but also on instruments of action which enable us to unify our voices, thus strengthening the capacity of influence of all europeans and, in particular, of the euro area, and this also has to do with governance. i fully agree with many of the aspects of governance that you have addressed in your report and i hope that the finance ministers in the ecofin and the eurogroup agree with you. mrs berès - and i conclude with this - said in her speech that the commissioner, the commission, should again draw the attention of the finance ministers to the conclusions of this report. there was a character in molière who said that when he spoke in verse he thought he was speaking in prose and he did not know it, i believe that the discussions which are being held by the ministers in the eurogroup, under the presidency of jean claude juncker, the ministers in the ecofin, the ministers at the washington meeting, are discussions which fit perfectly into the priorities and the need for coordination which is reflected in the commission's report and in your report, although perhaps some of them do not know it. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. this report is right and goes far enough for us to deal with it in the coming months. i agree with the analysis made in this report by mrs berès and mr langen on the balance sheet of the first decade of the single currency. there is nothing to add or take away from what they have expressed in their report. moreover, it is a report which has a large majority in this house, at least when the commission has spoken on it. i note that the enthusiasm of the assembly for the single currency is much greater today than it was 12 or 13 years ago, or even 10 years ago, and that is to be welcomed. as regards economic divergences, the deltas between structural reforms and differences in the management of public finances, i should first like to point out that i have not understood the meaning of the report when it says that the results do not correspond to the expectations that were formulated at the time of the introduction of the single currency. i am not aware of any quantitative reports on the differences between the various member states of the euro area. the absence of this report is therefore a matter of circumstance, which i did not understand, although i share the view that these differences sometimes tend to increase, which, to date, does not threaten the cohesion of the euro area but which, if this divergence were to persist, could harm the cohesion of the euro area in the long term. for the rest, and in this respect, it is to be welcomed that europe - the european union in general and the eurogroup in particular - faced today with one of the most serious crises it has had to face in recent decades, has managed competently the crisis we are currently facing, in particular by avoiding the mistakes made in europe in the 1970s. it is not easy to say that we have not made the same mistakes, because economically and politically we have avoided the crisis from increasing the divergences within the monetary union and contributing to undermining its cohesion. but faced with a crisis of the scale we are experiencing and one which is increasingly spreading to the real economy, a strong and coordinated economic policy response at european level is necessary and we must consider how best to organise it, taking into account, on the one hand, our conceptual and regulatory framework - i am referring to the stability pact and the lisbon strategy - and, on the other, the gravity of the crisis, the consequences of which are far more serious than we had imagined a few months ago. the creation of the world's second largest currency brings benefits but also obligations, as the g20 in washington on friday and saturday reminded us of our own and others' obligations. we must use and make the most of the three weeks between now and the european council in december to fine-tune our european strategy and to avoid divergent reactions at national level. of course, we are all aware of these disparate reactions. i am very much aware of the repeated calls for coordination of economic policies, which are expressed mainly in the language of voltaire. i would like those who call for economic policy coordination to give an example of the sincerity of their words. i observe that the various governments of the various euro-zone countries are rightly and greedily attacking the problems of their own automobile industry. i would like those who talk about the car and who talk about the coordination of economic policies to coordinate national action when it comes to taking initiatives in the car sector. the rest is literature. let us really coordinate and let us prove by example that these words are true. (applause) i would like to thank as far as monetary policy is concerned, you know my timidity, i will never say a word about it, except to say that i still believe that the role played by the european central bank in recent months has been quite exemplary. integration and supervision of financial markets is another aspect of the considerations which your rapporteurs have dealt with in their report. the g20 has set out an ambitious roadmap for us; it must be translated into concrete action by the g20, and therefore by the european union and the members of the eurogroup. you will remember that the eurogroup countries and the european union were the first to call for the appropriate lessons to be drawn from the crisis we are experiencing, and i would not like to reserve the chapter of my memoirs devoted to this episode for later. for four years we have been repeating - i am speaking of the eurogroup leaders - to the finance ministers of japan and the united states and we have been drawing the attention of our american friends to the risks of their double deficit and to the risks arising from the systematic underestimation of risks, particularly in the real estate sector. for two years now, at various levels of the g7, and particularly under the german presidency of the g7, we have been calling, with a certain brutality of language, for more rigorous regulation of the financial markets. i do not accept that those who refused to accept it yesterday should today give the impression that they are the leaders, to put it in english, of the european reaction. the us and uk governments had all the time they needed to accept the eurogroup's proposals for better regulation of the financial markets, but they did not want to do so. they don't want to give the impression that they're training others. the enlargement of the euro zone does not give rise to any comments on my part which differ from what your rapporteurs said. i would simply point out that membership of the euro area is of course an advantage, an opportunity, but it also comes with obligations, some of which will have to be fulfilled before you can join the euro area. this understandable enthusiasm for the new g7 formation raises problems with regard to the external representation of the euro area. we have always called for the european union and the eurogroup to be more present at the g20, the international monetary fund and the financial stability fund. we were the first in the eurogroup to call for a lasting and permanent seat for the commission in the g20, but that did not prevent the president of the commission from not claiming the presidency of the eurogroup - we shall see later with what consequences. but we believe that the european central bank and the commission must be represented in a sustainable way at the g20 level, just as the eurogroup must be represented by the president of the eurogroup, who is modestly trying to steer the work of the finance ministers, whom mr sarkozy has pointed out are not up to the task, or by someone else. i am not seeking the presidency of the eurogroup at the level of finance ministers for my own pleasure and personal glory, which is hardly extendable, i am doing it out of duty; if others feel they can do better, let them do it, but let them apply to it for the years to come the same intensity that they give the impression of applying to it at the moment. as for the rest, as regards the economic instruments of emu and the governance of our group, i believe that we have made remarkable progress in recent years, but when we discuss exchange rate policy and monetary policy at international level, it is inconceivable that the world's second largest currency should not be represented politically and monetarily by those who are responsible for managing these two aspects and these two compartments of our common policy. if the finance ministers in the eurogroup are to manage the economic area of economic and monetary union properly, the various heads of state and government must give the necessary instructions to their finance ministers. in luxembourg, as you know, this is not a problem. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you very much, mr president of the eurogroup, not only for this report but also for your dedicated work in this role as president of the eurogroup.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to thank the rapporteur very warmly for his comments on the future of the euro and all the policy areas around it, and i would like to say that he has found a very broad support in the committee. i would also like to thank the other participants, in particular jean-claude juncker, who represented europe at the imf meeting in washington and did a very good job. we were proud of him, and i can only say: do not let negative discussions discourage you from continuing this work so successfully! ten years ago, i was able to speak on behalf of the epp group on the euro, and i said at the time - and i quote: 'the euro will become strong, despite negative reports' such as those of the future chancellor gerhard schröder, who said at the time that the euro was a sickly premature baby. we have rejected that, and i think we have succeeded. the euro has been born after several years of dieting, of a strict and consistent fitness policy, and it is succeeding. i do not want to go into that again. at that time gordon brown was president of the council and he made it very clear that the ep had played a major role in the historic process of monetary union. other speakers also took the floor, including jacques santer, but also wilfried maartens, who described the eurozone countries - first 11, then 15, then 16 - as pioneers of the europe of courage. i believe that we in europe need courage for the future to continue to work so successfully and to be able to present ourselves successfully in the world to the other big powers - the usa, asia and the other world powers - with the euro. the world's currency reserves, invested in euro, are the best evidence of the successful operation of the euro and the eurozone.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are currently experiencing the worst financial crisis in many decades. the european central bank and the euro have so far passed the litmus test of this financial crisis and its challenges with flying colours. the ecb has acted swiftly and decisively in the crisis and has done its job better than many other central banks. in this way, the ecb has demonstrated its ability to manage crises in a difficult time. the euro has proved to be a strong currency, ensuring stability in the euro area, which has even helped some non-euro area countries by taking targeted measures. the call for a european economic government ignores the fact that a great deal has been done and is being done to coordinate and harmonize the policies of the individual member states. what has been achieved here is not least due to you, mr juncker, and for that i thank you in particular. countries outside the eurozone, such as denmark and hungary, are now painfully experiencing the cost of not being part of the euro and not being under the protective umbrella of the euro. countries that have been critical of joining the euro, such as denmark and sweden, are now changing their minds and considering introducing it in a few years' time. the financial crisis also shows how interconnected and vulnerable financial systems are. we therefore have an interest in the countries which are not yet members joining as soon as possible and the opt-out countries changing their minds, but not with concessions which do not meet the criteria for accession. the european economic and monetary union is a zone of stability with clear criteria for accession, and there should be no dilution. the only thing that could be considered is to take the eurozone as the reference point for inflation rates, not the three best countries in the european union, since we have now become a large group of 16 members. since its revision a few years ago, the stability and growth pact has provided sufficient flexibility to respond adequately to challenges such as the current crisis in times of economic imbalance. that is why it is absurd to want to soften the terms of the pact and reformulate them. the crisis also makes it very clear that excessive deficits, such as those in the united states, are not sustainable in the long term, that economic growth on a high note is not sustainable and that there is therefore no alternative to measures of strong fiscal consolidation. we are confident that the financial crisis - unlike what is currently being discussed in the financial markets and propagated in the media - will end up strengthening rather than weakening the monetary union.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. ten years after monetary union was achieved, europe is in a deep crisis. banks fail or are bailed out with billions of dollars from the state budget. sales are down and millions of people fear for their jobs and their future. it's not just the market that's failed. even the ruling politicians seem incapable of learning from their mistakes. we believe that the design of economic and monetary union has been seriously flawed. one such error is the structural divergence between monetary and fiscal policy. the creation of a common currency cannot be achieved without at the same time harmonizing tax and expenditure policies, at least in approach. i think the economic imbalances in the eurozone have become enormously worse. what we need now is better coordination of economic and, above all, tax policy. we need effective measures to combat tax dumping, to close tax havens and to finally restore controls on capital movements. the second major mistake is the design of the stability and growth pact. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. nothing would be more fatal than to respond to this economic crisis now with public austerity programmes. the stability pact has clearly demonstrated its failure. it should be replaced by an integrated european strategy for solidarity and sustainable development. we believe that an investment drive is needed to renew public infrastructure and improve the situation of the socially disadvantaged in europe. a third mistake is found in the very structure of the european central bank, which is not subject to democratic control and is committed solely to the objective of price stability. we are in favour of democratic control of the european central bank and we also call for a correction of the ecb's monetary policy mandate, which in future must promote growth and employment at least as much as price stability. the current crisis also offers an opportunity for profound reforms of the european monetary and financial architecture. this opportunity should not be taken lightly!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make just two comments. first of all: the euro has passed its test. we would probably not have been spared in this financial crisis without the euro speculation that would have gone against entire economies in europe. in this respect, the euro has passed its test. we would probably be facing much greater difficulties in europe - if not a pile of rubble - if we had not had the euro in this crisis. in the future, i think two things are absolutely important. the euro can only remain stable and continue to move forward as the world's leading currency against the dollar if two things are guaranteed: firstly, the independence of the ecb, which has proved itself - the various arguments have been made - and secondly, the stability and growth pact must be continued. it is extremely useful in its present form, but it must also be applied and protected.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank all the members who have spoken in this debate. i think that it shows a consensus, a very broad consensus, of course, in favour of the report we are discussing, but also support, a very broad consensus in favour of pursuing the project of economic and monetary union and in favour of our single currency. and this is not because we are afraid to repeat the arguments put forward by those of us who supported the creation of economic and monetary union ten years ago, but because we have analysed what has happened in this decade and what we must do now, in this very difficult economic period we are living through. of course, the euro is not to blame for the difficulties of the moment. as we all know, the causes of the deep crisis we are experiencing are not here in europe, in the territory of the euro zone, but it is obvious that we are paying the consequences, as are other industrialized countries, as are emerging economies and as are developing countries: in a global economy, decoupling is not possible. but we have instruments, with economic and monetary union, which enable us to deal with the difficulties more effectively and to trust that, together, we will get out of the crisis sooner than if each of our countries tries to get out on its own. i agree with all those who have said - and there have been many voices - that the european central bank is an institution which has more than justified the confidence we placed in it in the maastricht treaty, since its creation. i think it has done its job very well and i think its job deserves to be supported, because it is an indispensable element of economic and monetary union. i also agree with all those who have said that the stability and growth pact, as it is now, after the 2005 review, must be maintained, using the flexibility that we introduced in 2005, which we have discussed here on many occasions: a flexibility that allows us to maintain budgetary discipline, to maintain the rules of budgetary discipline, which allows us to anchor the sustainability objectives of our public accounts, but which, at the same time, allows us to make use of fiscal policy in a situation that requires an active policy from the point of view of taxation, of the instruments of fiscal policy. fiscal stimulus must be coordinated to be effective and our budgetary discipline framework facilitates that coordination, but it also places limits on it so that the coordination of a fiscal stimulus does not put the sustainability of our public accounts at risk. thirdly - and this has been the subject of many of the speeches this afternoon - we must certainly strengthen the voice of the euro in defending the stability of our currency, in the bilateral and multilateral relationship with the holders, with those who represent the rest of the currencies and, in particular, the rest of the currencies of the relevant players in the global economy. the ultimate source of this crisis is macroeconomic imbalances which should have been addressed but which have not been addressed because there are no effective mechanisms for resolving global imbalances. that is what was discussed in washington and that is what we must continue to discuss and we can only do so effectively, as europeans, if we give the euro all the political backing and the governance mechanisms necessary to ensure that our interests, through the exchange rate of our currency, are properly defended. i think there is a way forward; it is stated in the report, it is stated by the president of the eurogroup, it is shared by the commission and i think that in the coming months it will be shared by more and more of the leaders of the member states. this involves coordination, but in a good way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's not real coordination. the coordination which has always been behind the economic arm of economic and monetary union is a coordination which serves the objectives of economic and monetary union, both in macroeconomic policies and in the relationship, the link which must exist between macroeconomic policy and structural policies. when we speak from the coordination committee, we are talking about this kind of coordination; i think that, in the present circumstances, the risk of recession we are living in makes it clear that this coordination is a priority, and economic and monetary union gives us the instruments to carry it out.
president of the eurogroup. - mr president, i will be very brief, since most of those who tried to animate this debate are no longer in the chamber. therefore, it is not appropriate to give them an answer. i would also like to say that i was impressed by the broad consensus that emerged from the european parliament's debates, since we are all pretty much in agreement that the euro was a success. i am pleased to note that those who are part of the zone are aware of this. i am pleased to note that those who would like their country to join the euro area also see this. i find that those who have always found that everything we do is absolutely stupid still hold to their opinion, which cannot be characterized differently from the way they characterize our attitude. so there is nothing new in this parliament. except to say that it fits into our debate, however, a touch of concern - it's a polite way of expressing myself - that we are inspired by the financial and economic crisis that we are going through at the moment. i would therefore like to say two things on this point in response to a number of speakers. no one in europe is advocating in a radical way excessive fiscal consolidation. no one did. we have a reformed stability pact. some here did not agree with the elements of reform we brought to this pact. they are now the first to applaud the wisdom of the decisions taken in march 2005, when we gave the stability pact a more economic reading grid that allows member states and their budgets to breathe easier today, as we enter a phase that is not depressed but less inviting to easy consolidation of public finances. the member states which have been virtuous in terms of fiscal consolidation in recent years have sufficient budgetary margins to respond to the cyclical crisis with the structural elements we are currently experiencing. the member states which were less virtuous have more difficulty in securing the budgetary means which would enable them to respond to the crisis we are currently experiencing. but we must respond to the crisis in terms of economic policy throughout the area. it is not enough to talk about fiscal stability. it is not enough to focus our efforts on the financial crisis alone. it is clear that the euro area must provide a strong and coordinated economic response to the economic crisis. we have therefore a few weeks to gather all the analysis and action elements we need to be able to formulate this concrete and strong response. but all those who call for better coordination of economic policies must of course contribute by trying not to anticipate economic policy decisions which they would not have submitted to the assessment of their colleagues in the eurogroup. it is easy to ask parliament to coordinate economic policies. i would suggest that you, on the basis of your rules of procedure, propose an intergroup text, whereby the major groups would ask the eurogroup and their respective national governments, as the european parliament, to no longer announce economic policy measures until they have submitted them to their eurogroup colleagues for their assessment. demand your governments - it's easy to claim here - demand your governments to respect the logic of economic policy coordination. make a joint resolution, and we'll see. we shall see in two months, in three months, in four months, whether the governments - and the political parties to which you very often refer are among the governments to which you would turn - have done what you have asked of them. it would be credible, reasonable, logical, consistent and coherent. i therefore say that we need a strong and coordinated economic response to a crisis which is becoming increasingly economic. and we will say, as regards wage policy, not everything we want to say, but everything that is virtuous to say. you are right to say that the socialist governments of the greens in germany have pursued a wage policy which has reduced the purchasing power of german workers. it's gotten better since then. the same applies to france, whose government was not a reactionary government at the time, between 1998 and 2002-2003. it was the opposite, as i understand it. a little self-criticism, of course, would be a virtuous enrichment to some. the other thing is that we are three years ahead of schedule on the taxation of savings. you are quite right, mr jonckheer, in advocating the widening of the range of financial products to be covered by this directive. as for tax havens, you will be talking to your own government in the language of your country and you will find that you have work to do.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i want to pick up where the prime minister left off. i think the flexibility that the eurozone and the 27 member states have shown in recent weeks is a very good approach. this must be developed further, and i am sure that if the experience you have both brought here is also accepted by the member states, then we are on the right track. i would like to thank all my colleagues for their contributions. mr hoppenstedt quoted from the first debate on the euro, when the euro was called a premature birth. today, ten years later, he is a strong boy - the euro is a boy in my language, the deutsche mark was a girl - who only got good grades in primary school and is now entering secondary school. now he will decide whether he will overcome the further obstacles. i'm pretty optimistic that this will work. i am glad to hear from mr beazley that even the conservatives in the united kingdom are now seriously considering joining the eurozone. of course , i can only say one thing: the euro will not be free for the united kingdom either. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. in that sense, we are on the right track. i would like to thank the commission, and in particular mr almunia and the president of the eurogroup, for the good cooperation. we will take what you suggested at its word. we want to work with you. (applause from the centre)
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not i'm surprised the women are still so patient with us. we have been talking about the wage gap for 50 years and nothing substantial has changed. the figures speak for themselves: 15% less for the same work. this is a way of depriving women of their fair share of pay, which means that women have to work a quarter of the time to earn the same amount. where are we in the european union? the member states must do more here, and i thank commissioner špidla for taking our proposals here in parliament and for wanting to take legislative action. obviously, there's no other way. in germany, one of the largest member states of the european union, the wage gap in the private sector is 23%. this is intolerable, and we are one of the last lights in the eu. we know very well that there are positive measures in france and scandinavia. it's all right. we call on the social partners to take action and the socialist group calls for transparency in the companies so that wage increases are made clear and included in the public assessment so that this can be understood. regular pay audits can highlight failures or successes in combating pay discrimination. i believe that a law for the private sector will be indispensable in germany. we must put more pressure on the member states to finally introduce a minimum wage so that a living income for women becomes a matter of course, because that is the best guarantee against old age poverty. however, i would ask the epp group to withdraw its motions for deletions, which would dilute the report. let us stick to the clear language he has now!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not in fact, 50 years after the conclusion of the treaties of rome, we have unfortunately not made progress in the equality of women in the labour market. there are alarming figures: 80% of parttime workers are women, and only 57% of women are employed compared to 72% of men. equal pay has also remained stable since 2003 and has changed by only 1% since 2000. these are alarming figures, and we all deplore them. we also mentioned that women are punished twice, because this wage inequality continues in different pension entitlements and different social standards, and we also have a tax and social system that punishes women in a sustainable way, because, for example, unmarried couples and dual-earner are still disadvantaged by many tax systems, such as in germany. the commission has announced that it will be making legislative proposals. why are they so late? why have all these years passed in your legislative term without any proposals in this area? we in parliament have already voted in favour of proposals. the quote: we said there should be legal requirements. we also have member states which, like sweden, set targets and a timeframe for them. why don't we use the fact that we're giving these exact gender requirements to get member states to make efforts to eliminate this shameful pay gap. in germany - it has already been mentioned - we are in a sad third place with a shameful 23 per cent pay gap. we must also make it clear that a statutory minimum wage will lead to changes in industries in which women are predominantly employed. but we must also have the courage to make it clear that the president is depriving the speaker of the floor.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the fact that women are still paid less than men for the same work is a sad chapter in our common europe. in fact, it is impossible to understand, because the legal situation is clear. since the community was founded in 1957 - and this has been said here several times - the principle has been enshrined in the treaties of rome as a directly applicable law. this means that any citizen could bring this right directly before the ecj. we have no stronger legal protection in this eu. nevertheless, we are falling short of the principle by an average of 20%. it is therefore absolutely necessary - as the commission proposes here - that we enforce this principle by secondary legislation. however, this case shows once again that there is a difference between the legal situation and the actual life. people who are particularly dependent on their jobs and earnings - and these are often women - often simply do not dare to demand rights that are taken for granted, because otherwise they are easily thrown out. we can therefore only appeal once again to the responsibility of businessmen to treat women no worse than men in terms of pay. but if you don't want to hear, you have to feel. that is why i am in favour of sensitive and consistent sanctions for infringements. the member states are called upon to take this seriously and to punish those undertakings which violate this principle, for example by means of public procurement law. i would like to make a small criticism of the commission: perhaps the approach has been a little lax in this case, perhaps too much attention has been paid to the economy.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament, and in particular the members of the committee on regional development, for their continued interest in, and support for, the solidarity fund. it is an important instrument to promote the european union’s strategic objective of solidarity and, since its creation in 2002, 61 applications have been received and the fund has intervened in 33 cases in 20 different countries. the total amount committed so far is eur 1 523 million. according to the recent special report by the court of auditors, the fund is well managed and delivers quick, efficient and flexible assistance. however, this fund has its limitations. the threshold for mobilising the european union solidarity fund is extremely high. as a result, the fund is not well equipped for certain types of disasters, typically involving lower eligible expenditure, such as forest fires, and more than two thirds of all applications for the fund assistance presented so far were based on an exception for so-called ‘extraordinary regional disasters’. moreover, with all the existing community instruments, it is extremely difficult, or indeed impossible, for us to react to man-made disasters, as illustrated by industrial accidents, such as the prestige oil spill, or terrorist acts, such as the madrid bombing of march 2004. likewise, it is not possible at present to provide assistance from the european union solidarity fund in the event of a serious public health crisis. for these reasons, in april 2005 the commission adopted a proposal for a revision of the regulation. despite joint efforts with successive presidencies since 2005, the council has so far not been able to reach agreement on this proposal. one reason is that the large majority of member states consider that the fund works very well under the present scheme and they do not consider it necessary or appropriate to expand it to cover additional situations, fearing in particular the budgetary consequences of such an expansion. the council has not formally specified the position of each member state, although the council opinions are supported by quasi-unanimity. in addition, it was not indicated where areas of compromise could be found in order to reach an agreement on the commission proposal. the commission remains convinced that revision of the solidarity fund regulation is necessary to increase the union’s capacity to react quickly in case of major disasters which are currently not covered. therefore, it will adopt a report to take stock of the six years of implementing the fund and to identify solidarity fund limitations and any room for improvement. we hope that the report will relaunch discussions in the council and in the european parliament on a revision of the current solidarity fund regulation. the report should be ready towards the end of the first quarter of 2009. with regard to civil protection, the commission has begun to identify gaps in civil protection response resources on the basis of scenarios for major disasters, and assess options to fill identified gaps. in this context, the commission will explore innovative arrangements with the member states for reinforcing the overall eu disaster-response capacity in the framework of the pilot project and the preparatory action included in the 2008 budget. on the basis of this work, the commission may propose to fill the gaps through the development of civil protection modules available for deployment at any time or through additional reserve capacities designed to complement national responses to major disasters, including in the area of fighting wild fires.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am speaking as rapporteur for the social fund, the 2002 solidarity fund and the 2006 extended and improved version. the report, which was adopted by an overwhelming majority in the european parliament, has been on hold for over two years because it has been blocked in the council! the call for european solidarity is growing stronger in the face of the increasing frequency of natural disasters. the solidarity fund, which was created with a hot-rod in the wake of the devastating floods of 2002 in order to provide urgently needed aid, was an instrument that promised immediate relief in the event of disaster. however, as you rightly said, madam commissioner, it has become clear over time that the existing instrument makes it extremely difficult, if not impossible, to respond adequately at eu level to major crises. secondly, the current threshold for mobilisation - you said it, commissioner - is extremely high, so that exceptions are being made. the revised version of the disaster fund gives a clear answer to this question. the european parliament therefore considers it to be of fundamental interest that this effective instrument should now be made available to people affected by disasters. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am not sure that it will be possible to reach a decision on the matter in the near future. which member states support the improved treaty, and which reject it? you, the commission, are suggesting a possibility in early 2009. we hope so, but let us emphasize this again here, because you cannot disregard the vote of this parliament as has been done by the various presidencies!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the council is not here. he is the blocker, and this discussion should be addressed to him. because who's gonna make the requests when the fire breaks out or the flood comes? the member states, and with all the special wishes! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have just had the example of great britain. i would like to make one final point to the commission. initially, the commission under commissioner bernier was very committed to prevention, because it understood that only preventive action can really combat natural disasters. this is clearly under-exposed today. i would like the commission to develop guidelines for the implementation of the solidarity fund in which prevention is really a priority. i would also point out that the commission already has the means to put additional emphasis on prevention, for example in the context of the erdf programme. what's she doing? so far, little has been done, and little has been invested, to prevent natural disasters from happening. there has been no investment in natural rivers, there has been too little emphasis on the fact that there is a natural mix of reforestation, for example in greece, where pine forests are the ones that burn very easily. i expect the commission to be more involved in the proposals already in hand and to be careful about where the money is spent, so that disasters are not repeated but that nature-friendly investments can actually take place. i have not seen this commitment, and in that respect the commission has a lot of blame here. although we are talking about natural disasters, most of them are largely man-made, either because of the lack of action to combat climate change or because of the construction of river banks and the planting of monocots. the commission must now be involved and must not wait.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is unusual for someone to speak again during the catch-the-eye, but i just want to say again at the end of the debate that all the criticism that has been voiced tonight is not directed at the commission in the first place. the commission has always helped us to prepare the revision of this treaty. the commission has always been on parliament's side in trying to implement it. the council is to blame, and we wanted to put this question in such a way that we could express our criticism to the council. his absence is a contempt of parliament. we shouldn't be offered that in this form, being fed like this. mrs hübner, you have our full support in whatever you do with the council to get this revised fund off the ground.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a special greeting, of course, always from a brandenburger to commissioner danuta hübner! i should like to make a brief presentation of the report by the committee on industry on a commission communication on ccs demonstration plants. in order to meet the european union's agreed energy and climate targets, it is obvious that one of the most crucial issues is the reduction of co2 emissions. the coal as a fossil fuel must play an almost decisive role in this. on the other hand, we in europe are faced with a dilemma at the moment. we have three objectives in environmental and energy policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. without ccs technology, without clean coal technology, this particular energy source will have no future. the committee therefore welcomes the commission's proposal to support urgently needed demonstration projects. the commission has put forward a very sensible proposal. we need - and the majority of the committee agrees - incentives for the large-scale use of ccs technology as soon as possible. this is why - and we say this quite explicitly - a majority in parliament also considers that financial support for clean coal technology is essential for europe's energy and climate policy objectives. the proposal of the industry committee is therefore very concrete, to support the realisation of at least 12 demonstration plants with funds from the 7th framework programme for research, but also by taking pre-emptive measures on emission allowances from the emissions trading scheme. the plants must combine the different technological approaches with the different storage and transport options and, if possible, be built throughout europe. we have heard with cautious optimism that the commission is making some initial moves in the trilogue negotiations on the ccs and ets directives which are already under way. we are cautiously optimistic that we must achieve in the trilogue negotiations that we will not only clarify the future framework for ccs but also achieve a solid basis for financing the much needed pilot plants.
acting president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very, very pleased to be back in this house and to meet you at an important time, since it is a question of finding a final position, both in parliament and in the council, on this matter of the health check of the common agricultural policy. we know that this health check is not a fundamental change of direction, as was the case with the 2003 reform, but an important adaptation of this reform to a context that is changing very rapidly. for example, it can make possible a solution to a situation that was unthinkable just a few years ago. who could have imagined the evolution of markets since 2008, which has led to a very sharp rise in agricultural prices and generated, as we well know, hunger riots around the world? this situation has shown how far agriculture remains a strategic asset for our european continent and how the notion of food sovereignty retains all its meaning in this context of increased volatility in the prices of agricultural products. but if the health check-up is only about adaptations, they are nevertheless numerous, complex and, for all of us, a difficult package to conclude. the council has already done a great deal of work at all levels to resolve many issues. i would like to express my sincere thanks to the slovenian presidency for the efficient work it has done, which has allowed us to start work in a very constructive way, particularly on the commission's communication. and this work on communication on legislative proposals, ladies and gentlemen, was carried out by your rapporteurs, lutz goepel and luis manuel capoulas santos, on behalf of parliament. i would like to express my warmest thanks to both of you for the quality of your reports, which were very intensive and very rich in proposals. as you know, i have wanted to work with the european parliament from the beginning. i was used to this when i had the honour of being the european commissioner responsible for regional policy and institutions for five years, and i wanted to work on this matter, as i said, in the spirit of future codecision. i have followed with great attention the substantial work that parliament has done in parallel with the work of the council, and we have all had what we could call a kind of strengthened dialogue between us. i have had very fruitful and regular exchanges on the state of the negotiations with the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development and in parliament - almost 50 hours of meetings with the european parliament or among our colleagues. we met at every crucial stage of the negotiations with the council on 27 september, on 22 october, after the vote in the committee on agriculture, and on 4 november to deal with the final phase of the negotiations and what had happened at the october council. i would like to thank in particular the chairman of your committee, mr niel parish, for his active cooperation throughout this process. i would also like to thank your group leaders, lutz goepel, luis manuel capoulas santos, niels busk, friedrich-wilhelm graefe zu baringdorf, vincenzo aita and sergio berlato. as the presidency, we have regularly informed the council, at ministerial and technical level, of the state of parliament's work. for example, at our last meeting of the council of ministers in luxembourg, i personally gave each of the ministers in writing parliament's position on each of the points we had to discuss in the council. tomorrow, after you have delivered your opinion, we can, with mariann fischer boel, seek a political agreement in this council. i will inform the ministers before we begin - i mean before we begin - the final phase of negotiations of the results of your vote on the health check. as always, ladies and gentlemen, the search for a compromise is not easy, because there are still many substantial unresolved points. these are divisive issues, but we are determined - the presidency is determined - to seek, together with the commission, informed by your own vote, the best possible dynamic compromise. the work in the council has shown that on many points we as ministers share the same concerns as parliament. i would like to take two examples: firstly, the search for greater flexibility in article 68; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the common fisheries policy. i can assure you, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, that on the most sensitive subjects - there are at least two very sensitive ones: the milk question and the modulation question - we have debates in the council which are just as rich, intense and lively as those which i have heard or observed here in parliament. the same concerns are expressed in both chambers. this morning's debate and tomorrow's vote on the health check are therefore very important acts which demonstrate, once again, the essential role of parliament, which parliament must continue to play. in any case, it is in this spirit, as i said, in the spirit of this strengthened dialogue, in the spirit of codecision, that i have wished to work on behalf of the presidency for several months. that is why i am very pleased, as the commissioner is no doubt, to listen to you this morning, to answer some of your questions and to have this last discussion with you.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all, before going into the more detailed content of this discussion, i would like to thank mr capoulas santos for all the work that has been done on the report. i certainly do not underestimate the hard work and, as mr capoulas santos mentioned himself, the number of amendments certainly did not make the task any easier in trying to find the middle ground for the landing zone. we have now spent more than a year together discussing the health check, sometimes in very great detail, firstly on the basis of the goepel report, and now finally on the basis of the capoulas santos report. i do not think i need to explain my gratitude for the constructive cooperation i have always had with parliament, and that we have always tried to listen and find a compromise that was not too far away from each other. as i have limited time, it will be totally impossible for me to go into all the details so i will concentrate on some of the more important ones, starting with the milk sector. 2007 has been a very, perhaps strange, but certainly instructive year. one thing we learnt during 2007 was that our quota system did not allow supply to meet demand. as a consequence, we saw prices on dairy products simply go through the roof. quite a few farmers said to me this was nice as long as it lasted, but the result was that because of increased production responding clearly to the higher prices, we then saw a very steep drop in prices. i think we can agree today that the sector is really struggling to get back some of the customers that left the milk or dairy sector because they thought prices were too high. i see therefore that parliament is proposing an increase of 1% but only for two years, so a 2% increase taken forward to 2010. i think it is important that we review the consequences of the decisions that we will be taking in the dairy sector, but 2010 will be too early and i think we should stick to 2011, whilst clearly indicating that we will be open to discussing everything in 2011. the fact is, however, that the quota system expires in 2015. i have also learned from all the discussions we have had that there is strong pressure to get this milk fund. i agree that certain flanking measures should be adapted or adopted, and i am convinced that quite a lot can be done in the new article 68. i acknowledge that the present article 69 is much too narrow and too restrictive to be used in a forward-looking way, so we are now opening up possibilities in the new article 68. if we can reach a good combination between article 68 and the new rural development possibilities, then i am quite sure we will find solutions to the specific problems we see in some regions. on the single payment scheme, on de-coupling, the commission proposes that we maintain the possibility to couple the payment in two or three areas – suckler cows, sheep and goats – because we acknowledge that you do face specific problems in those three areas. you also want to keep coupled payments for the male bovine premium, for protein crops and for dried fodder. my fundamental view is that it is important to decouple the system – this is actually a fundamental element of all the reforms that have been undertaken – and we need to look again at simplification to take any opportunity to simplify our system. i am, however, open to finding a solution that is less complicated than what we have suggested. we have suggested a two-step decoupling approach and i might be willing, together with the presidency, to do this in one step but postpone it until 2012 – the last application year – so the effect will be for the 2013 budget year. you had a point in asking why we should make it more complicated than necessary. as i said, article 68 is to be used as a more flexible instrument but with certain limitations, because you want a situation where you can couple 10%. i think we should be careful not to have a situation where you decouple via the back door, via article 68. last but not least on modulation, on rural development and the new challenges, i think we all agree that we need more money to face these new challenges. climate change is at the top of our list. then we need to find new ways on how to manage our water. water is a scarce resource, but an extremely important one for agriculture, especially in some of our southern regions, so we need to use new technologies to use water in the most intelligent way possible to avoid wasting water. this could be done, but certainly needs money. that is the reason why i have proposed this transfer from the first to the second pillar: 8% phased in over the years. i know that we might come back tomorrow on a compromise on this issue, but i would emphasise that money will certainly be needed, as it will be for biodiversity and for the milk axes that we have been putting into the system. i will not go into details on progressive modulation. i know your views and i know that you say now ‘1, 2, 3’. i am sure that we will again be able to find a decent compromise on this issue. i have only touched on some of the major issues, and i am sure that i will have the opportunity to respond after the debate, but i am committed, together with the presidency, to finding a decent compromise. we all know that you never get everything you want, so i think that it will be a question for all of us to accept that we have to ‘swallow some camels’ to be able to find a compromise that will be to the benefit of the european agricultural sector in a more globalised world.
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are a step further on the road to free agricultural markets, both in terms of opening up the market order and in terms of the social and economic rationale of european policy. i am particularly pleased that the commission is already taking a very positive view of a number of parliament's proposals. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for taking up many of the suggestions made by the committee on the regions on modulation and rural development. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the committee of the regions and a number of other colleagues consider that an increase to the eur 10 000 exemption limit is necessary. the commission's proposal is not ridiculous, madam commissioner, and i think you know the quote i am referring to. we take this proposal very seriously, because it is about giving farms planning security on their way to a market economy, and it is also about keeping the promises of the 2003 agricultural reform. the smaller firms in particular have been struggling with the market turbulence of recent months. we should therefore give them political support. this proposal could of course limit specific sectoral programmes. but we must be aware of the flaw in the system. we cannot cut the premiums for dairy farmers and then claim that the milk fund fund funded in this way is a rescue. if money is needed for structural change, it must come from unused agricultural and structural funds. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we in the committee of the regions therefore call for planning security for rural development programmes and for farmers' incomes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are asking the commission for proposals on this today.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. two minutes for a year of responsible work on this health check is god knows what. i can only suggest a few things. the commission's communication of november 2007 was 8 % modulation plus 45 % degression. the commission has also proposed that the rate of increase in the number of farms should be gradually reduced to 4%, i.e. to be modulated according to the size of the holding. the commission proposal proposed 8% basic and 9% progressive = 17%, and we have now finally reached 5% in the committee. it was important to us that all modulation tools remain in the region and be used regardless of the size of the farm and its legal form. you, commissioner, wanted more flexibility for member states to change systems. this means more opportunities to introduce further decoupling and resolution of historical benchmarks. i can agree with that in principle. the debate in the committee has shown that this is not a sensible approach in all areas at the present time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted. new challenges, the greater global mobility of markets, require new flexible instruments. we have been able to redefine article 68 in the milk sector to help less favoured regions. and finally, milk, which is perhaps the most complicated item in this evaluation. because it is so complicated, i would have preferred to have treated this complex milk with options and accompanying measures for the exit from the quota in 2010 or 2011 as a complex report. but the milk fund is also something and will provide additional support to dairy farmers, particularly in less-favoured areas. the introduction of investment aid for dairy farmers without a quota throughout the eu is also not to be despised, as it relieves the buying pressure on farms. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. this discussion is not going well. if the irish had voted sensibly, we would have had co-decision on agriculture and agricultural finance on 1 january 2009. we are now discussing this under the old umbrella, even though president barnier has promised us that we will participate. that is a nice offer, but it remains a pious wish because of the circumstances as they are. this is also reflected in the commission's proposals. the first draft, which mr goepel drew up as rapporteur - he mentioned the figures earlier - envisaged a sharp decline: 10, 25, 45. we in parliament have taken this up, and it has been supplemented by the inclusion of social security labour costs. this would have been a redistribution that could have been exemplary for 2013. now we have to worry that we're going to get a linear reduction in 2013. the commission has just given us figures, and we must say that the mountain has crested and a mouse has been born. that is a lukewarm proposal and it has nothing to do with the diagnosis you correctly make and which can be agreed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all of this needs to be addressed, but the therapy you're proposing now is downright ridiculous. let me turn briefly to the dairy sector. you know the situation in the dairy sector. the milk is overflowing, the prices have fallen catastrophically. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the products. but market economy means that you produce according to demand. this would be like the automobile industry cutting or eliminating the christmas period in wages and adding a new special layer to make it even more difficult. this is a wrong approach and i support what mr goepel said earlier, namely that it would be sensible to regulate milk now not in the context of health checks but when we have the analyses of the markets, which are always announced but not yet available, and then we can also reach a reasonable result in the milk sector, which meets the market and the requirements of farmers.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to make a brief comment on the fact that we have a responsibility first of all to the 500 million consumers in this european union and then to the farmers in this european union who produce food for these consumers. we have a responsibility for the large farms and we have a responsibility for the small farms. we have a responsibility for the farms in the less-favoured areas, in the grassland regions, and here particularly in all the areas dealing with milk and meat. i am very grateful to you, commissioner, for thinking positively about the milk fund, which i have been calling for for two years, since the debate on the mini-milk package and the abolition of support measures in this area. i am firmly convinced that we can help with this instrument if we do not first take the money from the other farmers, but if we use the free resources we get by abolishing the market support measures.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the headlines are piling up. we are too fat, our children are too fat, we eat the wrong diet, and we eat too little fresh fruit and vegetables. five servings a day, or about 400 grams of fruits and vegetables, is the generally recommended daily allowance for a healthy and balanced diet. keeping this in mind is not always easy. food should be healthy, long-lasting, taste good and cost as little as possible. but in our fast-paced world, it is often difficult to balance family and work, so sometimes there is simply no time for cooking, and half-finished or finished products are preferred. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the excessive use of pesticides. if you learn early to eat a diet rich in fruits and vegetables, you will maintain a healthy diet later in life. i therefore expressly support the commission's proposal to introduce a school fruit programme worth eur 90 million. that's a good idea, chief! but there must be national possibilities for shaping things, and you have just admitted that. it must be possible to offer the relevant regional and seasonal products. member states must also develop a strategy to determine how best to implement and integrate a school fruit scheme into the curriculum. healthy eating is general education. children need to learn that carrots, for example, can be prepared not only as a warm vegetable, but also as soup, salad, cake or broth, and that they taste like potatoes if they are not processed into chips or fries. only by giving information can the basics of healthy eating be taught. well-founded knowledge is the basis for a healthy lifestyle. the school fruit program can make a valuable contribution to this!
in writing. - in today's vote i voted for the report by my colleague mrs edith bauer. i have not found this easy, however, because i have reservations about the content of certain points. for almost 50 years, there has been a policy on equal opportunities at european level. for 50 years we have had a clear legal framework. however, despite all the political efforts to achieve equality both at european level and in the member states, we have not yet succeeded in completely eliminating the disadvantage women face in terms of pay. the call for new legislation, as expressed in the bauer report, must therefore be rejected. the law cannot be used to change the way we think about our society. the experience of recent years has shown that the causes of the gender pay gap are largely outside the legal framework and that legal regulations alone cannot improve the situation of women in the labour market. the new laws will only create more red tape and thus new burdens, especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. i therefore support more rigorous implementation of the existing rules on reducing the gender pay gap and oppose further legislation.
in writing. - the european parliament has voted in favour of continuing to finance a totally outdated energy strategy. ccs is designed to make climate-damaging production processes appear 'climate-friendly'. however, this does not prevent or reduce co2 production, as is the case with renewable energy. from the point of view of the greens, generous public funding of ccs makes no economic sense. this money would be better spent on research into more efficient use of renewable energy. the ehler report goes further than the commission. it is also proposing to use european structural funds for ccs investments. this means that these funds are withdrawn from less-favoured regions and their sustainable development plans. with his cdu colleague ehler, a brandenburger is giving money to vattenfall, the fifth largest european energy company, so that it can develop further lignite coal mining in lausitz (brandenburg/saxony), which threatens the resettlement of other villages. vattenfall is known to want to continue to produce electricity from lignite for the next 50 to 60 years, although this is only possible with an efficiency of less than 50%. the energy-intensive ccs technology reduces this by another 10 to 15%. that is a step backwards, and that is why we are not taking the report with us, but have put forward an alternative proposal.
the next item is the joint debate on the european union's response to the global financial crisis and the commission's legislative and work programme for 2009.
president of the council. - mr president, mr hans-gert pöttering, mr president of the commission, mr josé manuel barroso, ladies and gentlemen, the effects of the financial crisis on the economy have begun to become clear. the commission's autumn forecasts, mr president, have revised downwards sharply the growth prospects in the european union for next year. several member states are already in recession and economic growth in 2009 could at best remain zero in the union. in addition, financial stresses are beginning to have an impact on the financing of economic actors. the public authorities in the member states are strongly mobilized to ensure continuity of financing for firms and households in the face of the growing risk of credit constraints. europe and its international partners are therefore facing the worst financial crisis since 1929 and an economic slowdown of exceptional proportions. as you know, the presidency of the council, since our last debate on 8 october, has pursued only one objective and has had only one conviction: the necessary unity of europeans in the face of the global financial crisis. faced with the threat of a real dislocation of the european financial system, the french presidency succeeded in promoting the adoption of a european action plan for emergency support for financial institutions threatened by the crisis and, together, the member states decided to provide their guarantees for interbank financing and to recapitalise the banks. the effectiveness of the europeans' joint action was also demonstrated last weekend at the g20 summit of heads of state and government in washington, attended by president barroso. europe, through the president of the council, president nicolas sarkozy, and the president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso, was at the initiative of this historic summit. it showed great unity when, on 7 november, it gave the council presidency clear guidelines to defend with our major partners. the results of this approach can now be welcomed, since the conclusions of this summit put the main elements advocated by europe - namely transparency and accountability - back at the centre of the functioning of the international financial system. we have also obtained concrete decisions in line with the european union's proposals, such as the registration of credit rating agencies, the principle of monitoring or regulation of all the activities of financial actors and the link between remuneration and the absence of excessive risk taking. for the first time, all the major economic and financial players have agreed to take strong action to prevent a crisis of this magnitude from happening again. all agreed on an ambitious action plan, which the finance ministers will have to put into practice in the coming weeks. the european union will of course have to continue to weigh heavily in international discussions. you know that you can count on the french presidency to promote european unity and thus to bring about a common ambition for far-reaching reforms on all the issues identified in washington. we are of course counting on the czech presidency to continue the efforts it has already made. on credit rating agencies, accounting standards, hedge fund supervision, the fight against tax havens, the accountability of private actors, the reform of multilateral financial institutions, the union must continue to speak out loudly to achieve tangible results. it must also, in the field of community legislation, swiftly assume its responsibilities by speeding up the adoption of the measures proposed by the commission on banking supervision and regulation and on rating agencies. the french presidency of the council knows that it can count on the full and active involvement of your parliament and its groups. i commend the presidents of these groups in this regard. this will enable europe to present itself in a strong position at the next international meetings scheduled for 2009. these first results in the financial field are proof of the effectiveness of the european unity approach. however, they are only part of the european response to the crisis. this united approach should also inspire the european union and its member states to respond to the effects of the crisis on economic growth. the presidency of the council is firmly convinced of this. as in the financial field, member states will not achieve tangible results in support of growth unless they coordinate closely with each other and, beyond that, with their major international partners. the g20 summit has delivered a strong message in this area. all macroeconomic instruments should be mobilised at the global level to avoid a sustained economic downturn. the central banks reacted quickly to the situation by driving down interest rates. the presidency welcomed the european central bank's strong decision to cut its interest rates by 50 basis points at the beginning of november, and we have repeatedly welcomed the ecb's action in its response to the financial crisis and its active participation in the discussions of the eurogroup and the european councils. on the budgetary front, the g20 indicated that significant room for manoeuvre should be used wherever it exists. the member states of the european union responded to this call by indicating that the full margin of manoeuvre allowed by the stability and growth pact should be used in a period of sharp turnaround in the economic cycle. the french presidency of the council, ladies and gentlemen, intends, in close coordination with the commission, to make every effort to ensure that the national plans for supporting the economic situation and the community initiatives are closely coordinated in order to maximise their full economic effects. we expect, mr president of the commission, new proposals by the end of the month. it is indeed necessary to seek the answers that can be given at community level and to mobilise all the instruments that can help to support the european economy. some of the appropriations from the european budget - i say this because i have experienced this debate in this house - could be rapidly mobilised to respond to the slowdown. moreover, while ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market, it should be ensured that the full flexibility of european state aid rules can be used to ensure that member states and the union provide effective support to the most threatened economic actors. we also want the european investment bank to be fully mobilised to help support the european economy. as you know, resources have already been mobilised to finance smes. the support measures must be part of a more comprehensive plan, which will make it possible to support the sectors most at risk, as is the case today with the automobile industry throughout the union. these additional efforts at community level will have to be actively complemented at member state level by closely coordinated national recovery measures. in the run-up to the european council next month, the presidency intends to lead the discussion among the member states on the priority areas for such recovery action. several member states have announced that they are considering measures to support certain industrial sectors. such measures must be the result of consultation between partners to be fully effective and to safeguard the integrity of the internal market, and the ministers for economic affairs and finance will prepare, with commissioner almunia, the european council's discussion of these issues at their next meeting on 2 december. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the union has effectively taken up its responsibilities in a few weeks in the face of an unprecedented destabilisation of the world financial sector. europeans have been able to unite in the face of immediate danger to act effectively and urgently. we must learn all we can from this successful approach. this european unity must be preserved in order to continue to act together, to weigh up, in the face of our partners, with our partners, a thorough reform of financial regulation and to face, together, the reversals of the economic cycle. in this way, we will prove together - council, commission and parliament - that the european union has the means to take its destiny in its own hands effectively and thus to do what all europeans expect, that is to say, to play its role as a global actor. (applause) i would like to thank
i would like to thank the council representative, mr jean-pierre jouyet. it is a great pleasure to see so many members of the european commission here. the vast majority of the members of the commission are here and i am pleased to ask the president of the commission to speak to us.
president of the commission. - mr president of the european parliament, mr minister and president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to welcome the excellent decision of the european parliament to organise two debates today in one: on the european management of the global financial crisis, following the g20 in washington, and on the commission's 2009 work programme. this double debate perfectly reflects the political reality to which europe must respond: to meet the challenge of urgency, while resolutely pursuing the substantive work already undertaken. it will therefore not surprise you that the commission's 2009 work programme also has a dual vocation: continuity and action in times of crisis. i'll get back to you. but first i would like to return to the outcome of the washington summit, which was also drawn up by mr jouyet on behalf of the french presidency. let me remind you that the political initiative to launch a global process of financial system reform came from europe, and i think we can welcome it. the european union was up to the challenge. the elements of the debate also came from europe. i am not going to take them back, we discussed them together in this house last month. the guidelines set out by the extraordinary european council of 7 november, inspired by the joint work of our three institutions, served as a platform for the discussions. the commission has made proposals. the president of parliament, mr pöttering, also took part in these discussions and we have defined a common position. i invite all those who are sometimes critical to look at the proposals we have made as europe and the results of the g20. of course, it takes a little backward time to judge whether an event is a historic turning point, but my feeling - and i would like to convey this very openly to you - is that this first g20 meeting at the level of heads of state and government really marks the beginning of a new era in the collective steering of the world economy, and perhaps even beyond that. because the crisis has made the protagonists feel the need to have a global approach to global problems. that's how i feel. the washington summit also laid the foundations for a new world governance based on the principles of a market economy, but an economy such as the one envisaged by europe is not simply a market economy; it is, as we very often say in europe, a social market economy. and the european union has that in its values. in fact, the g20 agreed on four key decisions. firstly, in terms of not necessarily importance, but in terms of the order of decisions, a short and medium-term action plan to reform the financial markets, to avoid new crises and to protect consumers, savers and investors. secondly, the principles of a new global governance to remedy the trade, monetary and fiscal imbalances that are damaging the global community. thirdly, and i believe the most urgent issue for discussion, the need for coordinated action to stimulate the world economy and to minimise the impact of the crisis on the employment and purchasing power of our citizens. fourthly, the need for open markets and the rejection of all protectionism. this is why we will seek to reach a consensus before the end of 2008 on the modalities for concluding the doha round on trade and development. at the same time, the summit sent a clear signal that i believe was very important to the europeans. the handling of economic and financial issues must not be at the expense of other global challenges, which also require a collective effort, namely the achievement of the millennium development goals, energy security, the fight against climate change, food security, the rule of law, the fight against terrorism, poverty and disease. i have personally insisted on this point. i even said that it would be obscene in my opinion to discuss the big issues of global finance and forget the needs of those who do not have enough to eat or who do not have access to clean water. (applause) i would like to thank the new political page that is opening must now be written quickly and concretely. and then you have to say things clearly. if europe played a major role in its proposals to the g20 and if it made itself heard, it was because it was united. i would like to say again how proud i am of the excellent cooperation we have been able to have between the french presidency of the european council and the commission, and also with your institution, with the european parliament. the union will now have a real challenge to face in order to continue to speak with one voice. this will be difficult at times, but it is the essential condition for our success. in any case, we have not waited in europe to take very important decisions. following successive european councils and debates with your assembly, the commission has already made important legislative proposals which are now before the co-legislators. we also outlined on 29 october the elements of an economic recovery programme which we will put into practice in a document which the commission will adopt next week. this is where the commission's 2009 work programme comes in. we have certainly come a long way in recent months. we will certainly still be making some progress before the end of the year, but there is still a lot to be done next year too. this programme contains four priorities on which we also found a broad convergence of views with the european parliament during the debate in september on the annual political strategy for 2009. the first of these priorities is self-evident: growth and employment. in 2009, we will first focus on two things: limiting the impact of the economic downturn on jobs and businesses in europe, and continuing our reform to better prepare for the post-crisis. we need to apply to the real economy the same method that we successfully applied when the financial crisis broke out: defining clear principles and coordinated measures at the level of the european union. in fact, i think our citizens would not understand that the 27 governments and the european institutions - which agreed to define a platform in response to the financial crisis - are now unable to define a common platform to respond to the economic crisis. the least we can do is to accept the principle of coordination between all the member states, of course, with the european institutions. this is the recovery framework which the commission will present on 26 november as a follow-up to the lisbon strategy. we have the instruments in europe, we have the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, we have the stability and growth pact, we can show that these instruments, with political will, and above all with european will, can respond to the crisis we are now going through. in fact, we are living in exceptional times that call for exceptional measures. we need a real common strategy to create the conditions for economic recovery, a programme that aims above all at limiting the impact of the crisis on citizens - households, workers, entrepreneurs - a programme that mobilises all the available levers - fiscal, structural or regulatory, both at european and national level - in a coordinated effort, and on this point too, i want to say how much we have appreciated the cooperation of the european central bank so far. no member state could get out of this crisis by national measures alone. our economies are far too interdependent for that. one of the most interesting results of this summit in washington is that everyone understood that in globalization, even those who were less exposed to the integration of financial markets are now experiencing the effect of interdependence. if the whole world is prepared to accept the effects of interdependence, we in europe must not only recognize this interdependence but also be able to have coordinated and coherent responses. that is why we believe that we need a budgetary stimulus programme to support demand, to exploit synergies and to avoid negative chain reactions, a programme of relevant, targeted and temporary measures. i say it in english: timely, targeted, temporary, the three "t's". we need these measures as a matter of urgency, and that is what we are going to propose to our member states. i am thinking above all of efforts to encourage training and retraining, to invest more heavily in innovation, interconnectivity and the transformation of europe into a low-carbon economy. i am thinking in particular of the need to adapt certain sectors of our economy to the objectives which are also ours to combat climate change. it will be a wonderful opportunity to show that the agenda against climate change is not an agenda against economic growth. on the contrary, it may be an agenda to support the modernisation of european industry. i also think of increased efforts to reduce the administrative costs of business and thus unlock the potential, especially of smes, which was a central element of our better regulation review in january 2009. we are increasingly committed to the objectives of better regulation. all unnecessary administrative burdens, especially those on small and mediumsized enterprises, must be reduced. the social agenda for opportunities, access and solidarity is also part of the european response to the economic crisis, because there will be social difficulties to deal with, we do not deny them, particularly in view of the increase, now more than likely, in the unemployment rate. that is why we must advance the social agenda. i would like to stress in particular the measures to promote the interests of consumers and to open up the labour market to young people, but there are probably many other elements which we would like to discuss with your assembly. on the financial side, i am counting on the members of this house to adopt swiftly the commission's proposals on capital adequacy, deposit guarantee schemes and credit rating agencies. it is essential to re-establish a climate of trust. in 2009, the commission will take concrete steps to strengthen the regulatory framework for the european financial system. it will look at regulation, supervision and transparency of financial markets, including the areas raised in the rasmussen and lehne reports. it will submit to you, before the spring council, the first analyses of the high-level group on financial supervision that we have set up. to conclude this first part of the debate, i think that despite their negative effects, crises always have a virtue. by disrupting thought patterns and acquired certainties, they give a certain plasticity to situations and leave the flexibility necessary to reshape and shape them. i would like to convey to you again, very sincerely and very openly, the feeling i had in washington last weekend. i've seen an opening of mind that frankly we wouldn't have had a few months ago. it's the crisis that changed a lot of minds. and now there is an opening not only among the great powers, but also among the emerging powers, to change the world and to advance european values: the value of freedom, the value of solidarity. i believe that it is time for europe to make its mark on the course of events. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president of the commission, i should like to thank you very much for your contribution. i would like to say to the honourable members that in the last few weeks, during which you have had a marathon of meetings, you have always - as i see it - not only clearly, but also as you must, of course, have always defended community law. it's also very important to our governments. they must meet the demands of the european parliament, but also the demands of governments. i am sure that you have done so, and i can thank you warmly on behalf of the european parliament, even in a difficult time.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the fact that the g20 countries have met is progress. the fact that they have come together in this form shows that there is a change in the world, that we are moving towards a multipolar world in which the european union can and will play a central role if it remains united, if we do our homework, if we actually do what we are supposed to do. the crucial question, therefore, mr president of the commission, is whether we have enough time. i have just heard from your speech that you intend to present at the spring summit the measures which you intend to work out in the commission in connection with the report by my colleague, mr poul nyrup rasmussen. it's too late. we want action now on the hedge funds and the private equity funds. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. it's just a small package. we want to talk about the rating agencies now if we want to be credible. we want to talk about controlling her as soon as possible. we now want measures in relation to private equity funds and hedge funds. we're here to talk about executive pay. we're going to talk about short selling. the fact is that a habit effect is already taking place. we have the financial crisis, there are huge rounds, but the ladies and gentlemen of the financial world are already back in position. i would like to read you a short quote from a letter from mr ackermann, the chairman of the board of the deutsche bank, to george w. bush. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public sector. no, that must not be prevented, that is precisely the aim of the measures we are taking now, that there should be more control and more international cooperation to enforce that control! because this is a crucial turning point, a crucial moment, where we have to ask ourselves: in future, will we continue to apply stricter conditions, stricter controls and, moreover, a legal ban on certain forms of speculative abuse, or are we now protecting banks and funds from collapse? they gratefully accept the money and then proceed unhindered. it's a bit like giving a burnt-out gambler who went broke in a casino new money and he's happy to move on. no, what we need to know is who owns the casino, what the rules are, how the winnings are taxed and, above all, whether the operations in the casino are made visible and those responsible for what happens there can be held accountable. that must be the target! the eu's objective must be to define its own rules, which it then imposes itself within the g20 and in international organisations. it can't go on like this. we must also be clear that we have a responsibility to the small people in the european union, whose money is used to pay for the disasters caused by others. i will give you a small example: imagine, mr barroso, that you are going to your bank. now, you're one of the better paid people in europe, as am i. you go to your bank and say, "i'm bringing you 1,000 euros and i'd like a 25 percent return". the man in the bank will say: 'mr barroso, are you not well? you're a reasonable man. you look smart, though. but when mr ackermann stands before his shareholders and says, "we want a 25 per cent return this year", he gets a standing ovation. we have to narrow the gap in philosophy between these people and the normal life. it cannot be that international business is conducted solely from these cold, cold, yielding perspectives. and that's why we need the rules to stop this kind of abuse. (applause from the centre) if we've acted sensibly in the coming months, at the end of this election, then we've closed that perception gap between what the business world perceives and what they think the real world is, and what the little people, what the people in the companies think the real world is. the real world of business is that the money that has been gambled away and the money for the deficits facing the international community that has now come together and which now needs to be financed with enormous billions of dollars has to be taken from the pockets of the taxpayers and from the real economy. that is why we cannot go there and limit ourselves to rescuing the banks and the funds. what is also needed above all is investment in the real economy. we have to secure jobs. we must keep the economy from going under. my friend frank-walter steinmeier presented an interesting plan yesterday, a plan which envisages a revitalization of investment in all the economies of the european union and which, above all, also asks the commission: can we advance the funds we have already earmarked for the next six or seven years for investment in infrastructure, in the lisbon process, in research, in training, in the construction of a telecommunications infrastructure in europe and invest now in order to generate immediate employment and growth? i believe that this is as important a question as the question of the rules governing international financial markets. i think we're at a crossroads. i thank you, mr president barroso. you have indicated that i may have been wrong about when the commission will come. come before the spring summit. come quickly, because in the spring there are horse races again, then the charlie is not there again. we need action from the commission now, as soon as possible! i expect you to put forward the appropriate proposals in december. (applause from the centre)
president of the council. - madam president, very briefly, because the debate has been extremely rich and before i give the floor to president barroso, i would like to make five comments. the first is that we all agree that the g20 meeting is historic and very innovative, both at international level and also in terms of the initiative taken by europe, as the president of the commission has emphasized, europe which acts, as joseph daul has emphasized, because it has a common will at international level. secondly, agreement that what is happening, whether we like it or not, is a breakthrough and that we cannot, as mr watson has stressed, return to normalcy but that we must show imagination in the way we respond to this crisis. thirdly, as many have pointed out, mr president, mrs frassoni, it is important to maintain the reactivity, the momentum and to take the necessary legislative measures quickly, particularly in the field of financial regulation. the fourth observation is that we must act on the very negative economic impact of this financial crisis both in terms of the relationship between the financial system and smes, as mr crowley has said, and in terms of the link between social regulation and economic recovery, as mr daul has said. we must also act with a broad vision and take into account the keynesian aspects that can be linked to the fight against climate change, as president watson has indicated. finally, as you have pointed out, mr president of the commission, and as several speakers and group chairmen have pointed out, the important thing is to take account of all the dimensions of the crisis. it is a development model that is at issue, as you have said, and we must review, as martin schulz has pointed out, what the distinctions are between the role of the public sector and the role of the private sector, these are also important elements. as you have said, and as many others have said, including mrs frassoni, we must not focus solely on finance, forgetting the poorest, the weakest, the hungry, as you also said, mr president. i also say that the foundations must be revised, and if greed is part of the foundations of the system, we cannot avoid revising the foundations. finally, we must see, and i would like to conclude on this, that the crisis must be an opportunity not to slow down, not to be frivolous, but on the contrary, an opportunity to react more quickly and to remain ambitious about what our objectives are both in terms of development and in terms of the environment and the fight against climate change. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the commission. - madam president, before continuing, since we have decided that i must now present the whole work programme for next year, i would like to answer mr schulz's specific question: the commission has today approved its response to the two reports, the rasmussen report and the lehne report, and you can see how we are going to monitor the various elements and how we have already started this action. this is a very broad answer and we will be putting forward other proposals, some of which have already been put forward. when i spoke of the spring european council, i was referring to the results of the high-level working party i set up under the chairmanship of jacques de larosière. as regards the proposals, perhaps those you are thinking of, in particular for hedge funds and private equity issues, the commissioner responsible, mr mccreevy, informs me that in principle they can be tabled as early as december. as regards the commission's 2009 work programme, as i said, it is inseparable from a specific political context. we're still in the middle of a financial storm, it's not over yet, i want to tell you, and we're at the beginning of a serious economic downturn. the adaptation to globalisation and modernisation projects already under way must therefore be completed as quickly as possible. in fact, it is not until now that we have discovered the need for a response to globalization. i would like to stress that for some years now, in this commission, which i have the honour of chairing, we have been talking about a new era. for europe, it is precisely to promote our values and defend our interests in the context of globalisation. it is precisely in this context that we must put forward ambitious proposals. but the present crisis must not distract us from the other priorities on our work programme, which are also priorities for responding to the challenge of globalisation. i am talking mainly about the issue of combating climate change and sustainable development. this is a priority for 2009, which is the year of the copenhagen conference. i would like to sincerely commend the european parliament for the immense work it is doing on the climate and energy package. we are facing exceptional circumstances and i am proud to see the reaction of the european institutions, which are up to the task. i am convinced that together we will meet our common objective of a political agreement in december. and i am very frank with you, i am convinced that this agreement will act as a catalyst for a european strategy to achieve an ambitious agreement in copenhagen. i do not want to dramatize the issue, but we must all be aware that europe is playing a major role in this debate, which it is leading, in terms of its international credibility. europe has been the one to launch the global debate on combating climate change. we were the ones who told the american administration that more had to be done. we have even said to the russians, the chinese and the indians: let us not give up now that better cooperation with the new us administration is possible. let's not give any sign that we're gonna lower our ambition. i think that would be a major problem for our credibility. we are going to propose tomorrow a truly extraordinary opportunity to seize, we have no right to miss it. therefore, in the response to the economic crisis, it must be demonstrated that programmes to combat climate change can also be part of the economic response. i would not like to see this opposition that sometimes appears between those who defend the economy or industry on the one hand and those who defend the sustainable development agenda on the other. on the contrary, the two things converge. i would like to welcome what has been said by many of you. the other priority is the europe of the citizens. the commission will focus in 2009 on making further progress in the european area of freedom, security and justice, for example by implementing the common immigration policy and integrating it into the wider european union policies for growth, competitiveness and social inclusion; for example, by making the european immigration network operational and finalising the common european asylum system for 2010; for example, by strengthening compliance with consumer protection in europe; for example, by improving the mutual recognition of certain civil and criminal law acts, including judgments and successions; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, including the protection of personal data against fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities. the other priority for 2009, and i am of course going over very quickly because of the time, is europe in the world. here too, we face challenges: the process of enlargement and the strengthening of the neighbourhood policy, the deepening of relations with the developing countries, especially with africa. it is absolutely necessary, and i would remind you of the need to approve the commission's proposal on aid to agriculture in developing countries. it's a matter of credibility. once again, we cannot simply discuss finance at the major summits, we must show that we are not simply talking to the major emerging powers, but that we are concerned with the developing countries, particularly the african countries. our relationship with these countries is also important in order to resolve some global issues. let us not forget that we have big meetings like the one in copenhagen next year to better deal with common issues with them, such as energy security, the fight against climate change and emigration. but also the completion of the doha development agenda and the continuation of bilateral trade negotiations. the idea of the urgency of a global trade agreement emerged clearly from that washington summit. doha is an agenda for trade but also for development. i think we are now closer to the path because the real alternative to doha will not be the status quo, but the opposite, because of the current economic crisis, the possibility of withdrawal, the possibility that some states, all over the world, will go back on their tariffs and take unilateral measures to protect some of their sectors. we would then have economic nationalism on a large scale, we would have a return to protectionism which would be negative for the overall economy and of course also for the european economy. you know, europe is the number one power in terms of trade. the summit last week also reinforced my determination to pursue relations with russia based on mutual interest. it will be a difficult relationship at times: there are issues on which we have different positions but frankly, i think the summit last week in nice confirmed that it is better to engage russia than to try to isolate it. russia is also an important global partner. finally, the intense pressure that weighed on the world in 2008 demonstrated how important it was to share a common vision with the united states. now there is an extraordinary opportunity that is opening up with this new administration in the united states. the president-elect, as a candidate, has made very clear statements, for example, on the fight against climate change, or on a more multilateral vision. let's take this opportunity to present ideas for an agenda to tackle globalisation. there are shared challenges which are very vast and i believe the world can do better if europe and the united states cooperate more actively. ladies and gentlemen, in 2008 europe demonstrated its unity in coordinating its action in major crisis situations. georgia and the financial crisis have been factors in efficiency. there is no other way forward than union if we are to meet the challenges of 2009. in a few months' time, 375 million voters will be called to the great democratic rally which will elect a new european parliament. let us take advantage of the momentum which the recent crises have given the union. they have been a beacon of light, proving to citizens the validity and effectiveness of the european dimension in ensuring their economic, social and environmental well-being, in protecting our interests and at the same time in affirming our values. i believe that today, in this crisis, there is clearly an opportunity. for example, today there is a much greater openness to recognition of the importance of the euro, our currency, than there was a few months ago. so let's take this opportunity. i think it is important, at least for all those who believe in the european project, i think the majority do, to give a positive dimension to the european message: not to fall into cynicism or immobility all the time... i believe that the role of our institutions is to work together to achieve this. i know that sometimes, in order to be more popular in certain quarters, for example, for the commission, it would be better to make proposals that we know from the outset will be rejected by the member states. that's not my perspective. i am in favour of an ambitious but realistic perspective at the same time, because we have to deal with the various institutions, with the member states, which are all democratic states, otherwise they would not be members of the european union. the commission will continue to play its role, its role as a driving force, its role as an initiator, but not against the member states, not against parliament, but with the european parliament, with the member states. i think that perspective is becoming more and more necessary. any other perspective would be a form of populism. it is also a form of populism to make proposals simply to make an announcement. it is a form of populism, under the guise of europeanism, to make proposals which we know have no chance of being approved. and our role in the european commission is, of course, to give the impetus, but at the same time to seek consensus with the other institutions. this is how europe can remain at the centre of the game in which it has managed to find its place. it has been able to put itself at the centre of the game in the global agenda thanks to this cooperation. we are at a very important political moment for europe, perhaps even at a turning point. europe also has high expectations. continuing to take initiatives and to plan for the future together is the best way to respond to this challenge, and this is exactly the spirit that will drive the european commission in 2009. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there are three critical developments in particular which call for action. firstly, the financial crisis, as discussed above, with its growing impact on the real economy. secondly, let us not forget the crisis of our treaty foundations, which is reflected in the fate of the treaty of lisbon. thirdly, there is a crisis in the eu's acceptance by its citizens, which i think is not wrong to point out before the elections. mr president, you have presented us with a programme of work for the remainder of the parliament's term of office, but also for your commission, and i would like to say that the epp-ed group will be happy to follow the broad outlines of that programme. we'll support you. we'll do some accents differently. this emphasis is linked to expectations. these expectations are aimed at the last months of your mandate and perhaps beyond. the epp group wants to be able to identify with the commission's actions. we are aware that other groups are also right to make this request to you. we leave the answer to your political skill. you are right to put employment and growth at the top of your list. the answer is increasingly linked to the question of how we respond to the financial crisis. we support the necessary measures to regulate and make financial markets more transparent. we need very concrete proposals for the reorganization of financial market regulation as soon as possible. the implementation of the world finance summit action programme is certainly primarily a matter for national governments, but in view of the global interconnectedness of markets, close cooperation between all regulatory measures is imperative - even to avoid divergent standards. this opens up a wide and important field of work for the commission's coordinating activities. regulation should not be undermined in all this is not an end in itself, but an instrument to achieve certain objectives in a particular crisis situation. we should stick to that. you mentioned the climate package, which is due to be adopted by december. this is certainly the aim that has the widest support in this parliament. the epp group - and i say this very explicitly - also wants this problem to be solved before the end of this parliamentary term. this is a strategic target. but you're giving parliament a lot of credit. the situation is such that we can assume that shortly after the december summit a package of a few hundred pages in one language will be presented to us and we will be expected to say yes or no. with all due respect to the objective we share, this is a serious disregard for the rights of parliament and its members, and perhaps we can think of something more elegant than this crude possibility.
i have to say, madam president, the g20 meeting has produced a lowest common denominator. the aim is to prevent a financial crisis from recurring through control and transparency. but what concrete measures will follow is open. the imf, which has plunged people into poverty and misery worldwide through its neoliberal structural adjustment policies, is now to be appointed as the supreme overseer of the global financial market. the system of global redistribution, which is largely responsible for the crisis, is not even beginning to break down. it is schizophrenic that so far the unimaginably large sum of 2.5 trillion euros has been raised to save banks worldwide. but no human problem has ever been the subject of such concerted action. with this money, the world's worst poverty would have been eliminated and the climate saved! what does this mean? the free market economy must be replaced by a social world economic order, and the united nations should take the lead in this. a new world financial order must promote social statehood, halt the process of impoverishment and promote ecologically sustainable economies. the european union can play a decisive role in shaping this new order, provided it demonstrates that the recession resulting from the financial crisis is being effectively tackled through joint european action. but that can only happen if the eu first puts its own house in order. president barroso said earlier: 'extraordinary times call for extraordinary measures.' yes, but you have courage! the european union must not be allowed to become a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the fact that the european union is a political force, a political force which is not only a political force but also a political force. then have the courage to finally raise the flag as the commission and make social justice the number one issue on the european agenda. the legislative and work programme once again falls far short of social aspects. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. why do you not specifically mention the serious social problems? why don't you say it clearly and bluntly that it is no longer acceptable that the gap between rich and poor is widening? why don't you say, loud and clear, that it is no longer acceptable to privatize profits and socialize losses? i wonder when the commission will finally realise, in the face of the dramatic situation of unemployment, poverty and inequality, that it cannot go on as it has been, as the work programme suggests. neoliberalism has simply run out of steam, and it is high time for a wind of change in europe!
i have to say, madam president, i would like to start by saying that everything the commission or the council said today about a 'new green deal' in the face of the global financial crisis was wrong in my opinion and that there is no political will behind this announcement of a 'new green deal' so far". for months, european industry associations have been mobilizing against our european climate and energy strategy. the proposals made by commissioners dimas, piebalgs and louis michel on development policy are being softened, watered down and delayed. this is by no means abandoned in the face of the financial crisis, but rather the industry has begun to use the financial crisis to put even more pressure on consistent climate and energy policies. i think that this has to be stated here because lies have short legs and you cannot go any further with the mere assertion of a renewal of politics. if you look at the current trilogues, the climate policy negotiations between the council, the commission and parliament, you will see that i am right. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. president barroso and commissioner verheugen are responsible for this, in my view. i would be in favour of this parliament finally deciding to support those who, like mr dimas or mr michel, are actually advocating sustainability strategies. what we need now is seriousness. achim steiner of unep presented a very good programme in london last week before last. let us take this seriously, but let us stop making empty speeches, as we did in the first part of the debate. we shall have the opportunity in the coming weeks to conclude the trilogue and we shall be able to judge from this whether there was hypocrisy on the part of the commission and the council today or whether it was serious.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to say a few words today on internal security and the work programme. but before i do, i want to make one more point. we talk about banks all the time. in my own region, a large firm with 2000 employees went bankrupt a few weeks ago and the employees are facing a loss of income because the banks are cutting their credit lines. that is to say, the crisis is already clearly affecting the real economy, and that is why i would suggest to the commissioner that we should also examine one of the answers and that we should put the aid law which we are now suspending for the banks and which is suddenly no longer effective on the test and adapt it to this crisis. we can also help small and mediumsized businesses in this way. the commission's work programme is the subject of my main comment, and i am referring to the internal security area. i am disappointed when i read the programme, because there are other major challenges besides the economic ones. i see that we have enormous successes with the schengen information system - switzerland is joining now and is already reporting great successes before joining because it accesses the sis. however, i do not see how the commission intends to achieve this programme by making sis 2 finally operational. it's been pushed back month by month, nothing's moving forward. we are also not making progress in the second area, which is extremely important in police cooperation, namely the fight against organised crime and practical cooperation between police organisations. the legal framework is not clear. unfortunately, i do not see anything in the 2009 work programme on this. i wish i had more involvement here. the third point i would like to make is this: the programme describes migration, the migration network, immigration and the blue card, which we will discuss tomorrow. citizens will then follow the path towards more openness to immigration if we tell them clearly that we are fighting against illegal immigration and also stopping illegal immigration. that is one of the connections we must not overlook!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the financial crisis, enormous sums are suddenly being moved to mitigate the economic crisis. if i understand my colleagues correctly, we all want that money to be able to flow. i would like to say to the commission that we expect it to do its job. this means that the question of controls on these funds remains on the agenda. that is why we cannot be satisfied with the work programme that the commission has presented for 2009. we miss that this aspect of their work is brought into the spotlight. the barroso commission has done a great deal on this point, but it also makes it clear that it does not really consider this issue to be important for 2009. i want to warn you! we also need to equip the office for the prevention of fraud with a new legal basis. the risk of a council deadlock is that the 27 member states are no longer able to agree on the fight against fraud. we have expectations of the commission here too, expectations which we have not found fulfilled in reading the work programme. we also need to deepen the national declarations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what i do not understand is that the barroso commission does not want to showcase its greatest success, namely the disclosure of the recipients of subsidies, in any way. why don't you tell us how the eu funds are being used? why don't you analyze whether we're actually achieving our policy goals with what we learn from this data? i believe that we can expect a lot from you, that we should expect more than what is presented in the legislative and work programme. but you should be able to build on our critical solidarity and also on our questions.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to raise a point which has not been raised so often, namely the role of the state. we see that integration into the global economy also means that we have to learn more and more that the state has to integrate internationally and globally in order to be able to intervene and exercise the necessary control. i think the european union has an excellent chance of playing that role. we see that more and more trust is being placed in it. we should do everything we can to show that this trust is justified. this includes the european union reviewing its legislation. i see commissioner mccreevy sitting there and i would strongly advise him to do something different in the case of the vw act than he is planning to do. that would be a great sign that he understood the symbols of the times. i also expressly support mrs gräßle. she is absolutely right that we must be much more rigorous in our control measures here, and i hope that the european union will also be able to organise itself on an international level. why not the world bank, the imf, with one vote? we do this fantastically at the wto, but we don't learn it in any other context. i also hope that you will all support the g20 becoming a long-term institution.
the debate is closed. the vote on motions for resolutions on the commission's legislative and work programme for 2009 will take place during the december part-session in strasbourg. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
president of the council. - madam president, i would like to reply to mrs harkin that the council attaches great importance, as it has shown on several occasions, to the question of freedom of religion in turkey. the specific case mentioned by mrs harkin is still pending before the turkish courts and it is not for me to comment at this stage but we are following this case very closely. in general, your question deals with freedom of religion in turkey, which is a very important issue and it is urgent that turkey make progress and take concrete steps to implement an adequate legal framework. these issues are constantly raised by the european union in its political dialogue with turkey, including at the last meeting of the eu-turkey association council on 27 may 2008. on that occasion, while noting the declared intention and renewed commitment of the turkish government to continue the reform process and to address existing shortcomings, the european union stressed the need for these commitments to be translated rapidly into effective and concrete measures. some progress can be observed; the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new law on the establishment of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. the amendments abolish the ban on foreigners setting up foundations in turkey and replace it with the principle of reciprocity. however, despite the positive elements of the foundations law, there is still a need to resolve the many difficulties that religious minorities and communities continue to face, particularly in terms of legal status and, i stress, in terms of property rights. the question of freedom of religion was again raised at the ministerial meeting for political dialogue held in brussels on 15 september and in this context the council can assure mrs harkin that it will continue to follow very closely the question of freedom of religion, including the implementation of the new foundations law, and that it will address this issue with the turkish authorities at all levels it deems appropriate. i am told that this is a question from mr posselt. that's not what i had on my paper and i apologize, madam president.
thank you, mr president-in-office. that was my request. thank you for the very good answer. france has always been traditionally associated with eastern christians. i would like to ask a supplementary question: mor gabriel is not only a religious place but also the cultural and economic centre of the assyrian christian minority in the region. what specific action is the council taking to protect this minority whose very existence is threatened? what is the council's position on the question of church building, which is still very difficult in turkey as far as the other christian communities are concerned?
president of the council. - madam president, i thank mr ortega for his specific and relevant questions. he's absolutely right. we must ensure that we strengthen the states with the least capacity: the case of malta is perfectly clear, i know it. we must consider redeployments to strengthen the resources around malta and we must also look at ways of strengthening the frontex system in this respect, particularly in the case of malta. secondly, as mr ortega knows, there will be a second euro-african ministerial conference on migration and development to follow up the rabat conference, which will be held in paris on 25 november, and in this context there are three technical meetings planned on legal migration, illegal migration and migration and development. i admit that i shall ask the general secretariat of the council to make a more specific point on the standard on the protection of minors, since i am not able to answer it at the moment. thirdly, with regard to mali, mr ortega was right to stress the importance of these agreements. what we as the presidency want to do and what we are calling on the council to pursue is to conclude agreements of this kind with the countries of origin of immigration, and it is precisely in this respect that the aspect of co-development, dialogue with the countries of origin, is important and, for us, this agreement with mali serves as a reference. that is what i wanted to tell mr ortega.
my question relates to the union for the mediterranean, which president sarkozy has initiated. can it be used effectively as a tool in this matter? two specific points: firstly, the migrants from north africa. what is being done to create jobs there? secondly, the transit migrants from west africa. can't we set up reception centres in north africa ourselves?
member of the commission. − mr president, let me begin by saying that if ieke van den burg had raised this issue this morning, i gladly would have dealt with it. i had asked you whether there were any other issues you would like to raise and, if you had, i would have spoken to you about it. if you had raised any issue at all – including the weather in ireland – i would have discussed that with you as well. i have no problem doing that. i do not have any problem at all as to what the european parliament decides, because that is your job and that is what you must do. but the background to this particular proposal has to be kept in mind and, since i appreciate your position, i would ask you to appreciate mine. this particular proposal was put forward in the context of reducing the administrative burden on small companies. it was part of the simplification of the business environment. there are estimates of what this proposal would achieve: reducing the cost annually by eur 600 million. so the reason for putting forward this proposal was to reduce administrative costs for small business. as i pointed out in my earlier remarks, the whole project of reducing costs has been welcomed by the european parliament in various resolutions. so this is the context in which this was put forward. with the idea of bringing down administrative costs and simplification for smaller business we came up with this particular proposal. you can hardly expect me then to accept amendments by the european parliament that go in totally the opposite direction by not reducing administrative costs but increasing them. if the european parliament feels that, in this particular instance, the balance of advantages weighs further in keeping this the way they want, so be it. that is a perfectly legitimate viewpoint. but this cannot be reconciled with the original objective which you brought forward, which was to reduce costs. if parliament and others feel that for all the reasons you have outlined it should be kept like this, you can hardly expect me to stand up and agree with you that this is going to reduce administrative costs when it is going to do the opposite – in fact it is going to add to costs rather than reduce them. the amendments tabled by the two european parliament committees mean that the only change that member states would have to implement following the adoption of this directive would make the use of an electronic platform mandatory. no reduction in the current administrative burden would be achieved by the savings which we expected from our original proposal, which have been assessed, as i said, in the impact statement, at around eur 600 million per annum. so adopting a directive that leads to no reduction but only to cosmetic changes would definitely give a bad signal concerning the overall reduction of the administrative burden that we have been talking about. so i would ask members of the european parliament to respect my position also. if the view of parliament seems to follow that particular line – and there will be a vote on it tomorrow – that is your view and you are fully entitled to that position. i have no difficulty with it. but you have to respect my position in that i can hardly accept amendments that go in the opposite direction to the original purpose of bringing this forward in the first instance. we should not fall out about it, but i will not be in a position to turn logic on its head and say that what the european parliament is doing is all right, because it is increasing administrative costs rather than reducing them. i can listen to the reasons you put forward for keeping it as it is – and perhaps there is some validity in them – but that is not what we started off doing; that is not the reason why we brought forward this particular proposal. so, c’est la vie!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. first of all, i am sorry that commissioner mccreevy is leaving the chamber now, because he could have seen the conclusion of a very successful and rather lengthy procedure with the european parliament on this dossier. this is for you, commissioner almunia. i am glad that we can conclude today a successful and lengthy procedure by unanimous agreement at first reading. i should also like to begin by thanking the slovenian presidency, and also the french presidency - and this is different from the previous dossier - for the sustained and sometimes difficult negotiations which you have conducted in order to reach a compromise on this matter. however, this dossier also deals with the reduction of administrative burdens in the field of statistics in the european union and thus also for local businesses. i therefore believe that we can put this report in the context of cutting red tape. in germany, for example, the share of the costs of official statistics, when considered as a whole, is less than 10% of the total bureaucratic burden, according to calculations by the german institute for economic research. that's about 230 million euros. if we can really strike a blow here as the european union, i believe that by reducing the statistical obligations we will be taking an important step towards less bureaucracy. i would like to thank you, commissioner almunia, for your proposal. the new regulation on european statistics is a concrete example. the regulation on european statistics is the legal backbone for the production of statistics at european level and revises the existing basic legal framework for the production of statistics at european level. even if the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups are not here tonight, i would like to take this opportunity to thank you very much for your good cooperation. it was not an easy conversation, but it was successful in the end. the proposal also fits into a series of regulations adopted by the commission during the current legislature in the field of the production and dissemination of statistics, which were discussed in the economic committee. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we will redefine the european statistical system and enshrine its activities in community law. we will define the functions of the national statistical offices in the european statistical system, while maintaining the full application of the principle of subsidiarity in the member states as required and seeking to bring the code of conduct for european statistics into the community legal order. in this respect, it is a response to the difficult situation of statistics after the introduction of the euro in some member states of the european union. finally, the proposal establishes two separate bodies: a so-called ess partnership group and an ess committee, both of which replace the existing statistical programme committee. the clear committee vote and a successful trilogue prove that legislation was made from a single cast. i would like to take the remaining minutes to present this legislative project again in two important places. we have been able to ensure that, in future, eurostat will have full and faster access to all the statistical data needed to collect important economic criteria through this regulation. we will thus bring a little more transparency to statistics at european level and thus make the eurozone a little more competitive. this is good news, especially in the context of the financial crisis and difficult discussions about the statistical system. secondly, i think it is very important that we continue to strengthen the scientific independence of statistics with this report. this is a positive sign for the employees working in this sector. finally, i am grateful that a compromise has been reached with all the member states. i know that it has not been easy for many, even though the council's seats are empty tonight, but i believe that with this proposal for a regulation we can satisfy all those concerned and we can be satisfied with the system. i thank you for your attention and for your cooperation.
member of the commission. - mr president, i simply wanted to reiterate my thanks to the rapporteur and the ladies who have just spoken for the good work that has been done. as mrs starkevičiūtė said, working together produces these positive results for everyone, and what i hope, as we all hope, is that, thanks to these good statistics, we will soon be able to give good news to the citizens about the state of the economy.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you for your constructive comments at the end and, above all, for your constructive cooperation. i do not want to repeat anything that has already been said. i would therefore like to raise two points which i think should be considered in the aftermath of this report. firstly, we have been dealing with article 285 of the eu treaty, which provides for the scientific independence of statistical authorities. we have now also emphasized the need for professional independence in this report, because we have noted that there have been difficulties in the past. this may eventually have to be incorporated into primary law in order to ensure that there is clarity in the long term. however, i would also like to add explicitly that this does not mean that there can be supervisory independence under german law. secondly, we have emphasized in this report - and mrs starkevičiūtė has also mentioned this - the importance of prioritising the collection of statistical data and also of collecting them. commissioner almunia, i hope that by setting these priorities we can also reduce the statistical burden on smes in the medium term, because we can simply look for the data we really need for our statistics with much greater precision. in that sense, thank you very much. i hope we can get a quick vote tomorrow.
president of the council. - mr president, dear commissioner, dear benita, ladies and gentlemen, i know how concerned you are, as we are, about the deteriorating situation in the east of the democratic republic of the congo, and i remember, having discussed this with you, that our concern was growing when we raised this issue at your foreign affairs committee in october. the union's foreign ministers discussed this at length at the general affairs and external relations council on 10 november and the presidency decided to put it back on the agenda of the next general affairs and external relations council on 8 december, in the presence of the commission, represented by louis michel and benita ferrero-waldner. it is clear that the situation in the eastern part of the democratic republic of congo has deteriorated sharply since the end of august and the launching by the cndp of rebel leader nkunda of an offensive against the congolese armed forces, which have proved unable to resist but have left the un peacekeeping force, monuc, alone to ensure the protection of the civilian population. the successes of the rebellion on the ground brought it to the gates of goma, the provincial capital of north kivu, and allowed it to significantly expand its sphere of influence in this province bordering rwanda. the ongoing crisis shows once again the destabilising potential of the presence of all rebel groups in the east of the democratic republic of congo: the cndp but also the hutu rebels of the fdlr. the defeat of the congolese armed forces demonstrates once again that this complex crisis cannot be resolved by a military solution and that the way to a lasting settlement is through a political solution that takes into account both local and regional actors. i'll get back to you in a moment. at the height of the crisis and the offensive by laurent nkunda's rebel forces, the european union was heavily mobilized, followed by the rest of the international community. the urgent task, as you will recall, was first to prevent the capture of goma and then to try to stabilise the conflict. that is why commissioner louis michel went there. on 1 and 2 november, he was followed by mr bernard kouchner, in his capacity as president-in-office of the council, together with mr david miliband. the political messages of restraint were passed by the two ministers in kinshasa, kigali, dar el salaam. the ministers also went to goma to highlight on the ground the attention we are giving to this crisis, to assess the needs of the displaced people and to meet with humanitarian organisations, as the civilian population is once again the first victim of the resumption of fighting. these fighting have led to a significant deterioration of the humanitarian situation. the number of additional displaced persons in totally dramatic conditions is estimated at 250,000, bringing the total to over one million displaced persons in north kivu province alone today. in addition, there are serious human rights violations by rebel groups, including summary executions, large-scale sexual violence and the recruitment of child soldiers, as well as acts of looting by rebel groups and some elements of the congolese armed forces. the resumption of fighting has also interrupted the implementation of the agreements concluded between the democratic republic of congo and rwanda in november 2007, the so-called nairobi process, which you know, and which is focused on the fight against the rwandan hutu rebels of the fdlr in the east of the republic of congo. the agreement between the congolese government and congolese rebel groups, including nkunda's cndp, in january 2008, known as the goma process, is also broken. the priority at the moment is to address the humanitarian emergency and secure access for displaced people. in accordance with its mandate, monuc plays a key role. it is continuing to strengthen its mechanism in north kivu and we encourage it to continue its efforts in this direction. the un secretary-general has asked for the strengthening of the mission's resources and discussions are under way on this point in the security council, and we hope that they will be concluded very quickly. in the face of the emergency, the european union has significantly increased its efforts in the humanitarian field. many member states, as well as the commission, have made exceptional emergency contributions in support of the work of non-governmental organisations or un agencies such as the world food programme or the office of the high commissioner for refugees. additional grants totalling over €43 million to date in the form of air transport contributions - i am thinking of countries such as the uk, belgium, italy - have made europe the leading contributor, by far, to the humanitarian effort in this crisis. secondly, we must restart the process of finding a lasting solution to the problem of the illegal armed groups operating in the eastern part of the democratic republic of the congo, all the illegal armed groups, whether congolese or foreign, knowing that there is no military solution to the crisis and that any solution necessarily requires the resumption of the goma and nairobi processes, which i described earlier and which constitute the appropriate framework for the lasting stabilisation of the situation in that province of the congo. the resumption of dialogue and cooperation between the republic of congo and rwanda is essential in this respect, and i would like to welcome the efforts of the european union's special representative for the great lakes, mr roeland van de geer, to try to re-establish the links between the two. the international community, and in particular the european union, has therefore been mobilizing around these objectives in recent weeks. these efforts have borne their first fruits, marked in particular by the resumption of the dialogue between kinshasa and kigali at ministerial level and the organisation, on 7 november in nairobi, of an international summit on the crisis in the eastern republic of the congo, at the initiative of the great lakes states and the african union, attended by, among others, congolese president kabila and rwandan president paul kagame. among the most important achievements of the summit was the commitment by the states of the region to send peacekeeping forces to the eastern republic of the congo if necessary and, if necessary, to appoint a high-level facilitator team composed of former nigerian president obasanjo and former tanzanian president mkapa. at its extraordinary summit in johannesburg on 10 november, sadc also declared its readiness to send a peacekeeping force to the eastern republic of the congo if necessary. the european union welcomes the commitment of the african states and remains committed to continuing its cooperation with the un, the african union and the countries of the great lakes region to resolve this crisis. but let us be clear and lucid with each other that this crisis cannot be resolved without strengthening the means of stabilizing peace, particularly those of the united nations.
member of the commission. - mr president, i will first of all say to mr van buitenen, very quickly, that i have taken note of what he said and that i will indeed convey his message to my colleagues, who will certainly reply tomorrow. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the council, mr jean-pierre, i am here today to replace my colleague, commissioner louis michel, who was unable to attend this part-session for health reasons and who asked me to apologize to you. you know how much commissioner michel loves the great lakes region. as the president-in-office of the council has already said, he was the first to go to the democratic republic of congo and rwanda on 30 and 31 october, at the height of the crisis, to try to resolve it. the idea of organising the nairobi conference came from this shadow diplomacy mission, whose operational conclusions now offer new prospects for overcoming the crisis. as regards the commission's response, i would like to share with you an analysis of the situation in two aspects, which are very, very similar to those mentioned by the president-in-office of the council. first, on the humanitarian front: the international community, including the european union, is responding to the crisis. the commission immediately mobilised €6.3 million to deal with emergencies. however, we remain very vigilant in order to adjust this amount in line with the evolution of the situation; humanitarian needs are generally met in kivu and the coordination between humanitarian agencies is really good. the commission and the member states jointly announced on 14 november in marseille new contributions totalling an additional eur 43.5 million to deal with the crisis. however, the biggest problem remains access to the population in some areas due to the ongoing fighting between the fardc and the mai-mai allies and the fdlr on the one hand, and the cndp on the other, as neither side respects the ceasefire. secondly, on the political and military level: in the east of the drc, there is no military solution. there is only room for a balanced political solution based on dialogue. this is also what was advocated by the countries of the region, in fact, at the summit held in nairobi on 7 november last, and above all this is what the cndp rebels and a large part of the political establishment in kenya, such as the national assembly, also seem to be aiming at. the commission is therefore very pleased with the conclusions of the great lakes heads of state summit and in particular with the decision to involve high-level african diplomacy in the resolution of the crisis and to set up a verification mechanism which will enable the heads of state of the region to closely monitor developments and to provide the necessary responses in real time. in this respect, mr obasanjo's recent visit to the region is very encouraging. it reassured the commission of the prospects for military intervention by some countries in the region, and obtained assurances from president kabila that kinshasa would be ready to listen to the demands of the cndp and that it was also ready to move forward on the path of dialogue. it also heard the complaints of the cndp and heard general nkunda reiterate his readiness to observe a ceasefire and to do everything possible to facilitate the delivery of humanitarian aid to the areas under his control. it is therefore crucial to maintain the current political momentum and to do everything possible to ensure that the words of both sides are translated into action. it is therefore high time to address the root causes of the crisis in the east of the country, which everyone knows: the presence of the fdlr, the organized plundering of mineral resources, the political frustrations of communities and minorities, and it is necessary to bring ideas together. in this regard, it is crucial that the entire international community support the diplomatic efforts that have been put in place following the nairobi summit and that international facilitation coordinates to leave sufficient space for presidents obasanjo and mpaka to follow up on the consultations. it is also important to highlight the role of monuc. it is not monuc that is responsible for all kinds of extortions. monuc is indeed doing important work, despite the scarcity of resources and the limitations of its functions. it also does a hard-to-replace job, which is to ensure peace, not war. however, it is all the more important to support the efforts under way to strengthen its mandate at a time when, indeed, the security council is going to be looking at this question in the coming days. we believe that the mandate should be extended, for example, to control the plundering of natural resources, and that, as the president-in-office of the council has said, the means available to the commission should be increased.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, currently we are facing a financial crisis which will go down in the history books. nevertheless, in only a few weeks it was possible to set up a g20 meeting which delivered concrete results, the most notable of which was the decision to use 2% of gdp to stimulate the economy and help the financial sector. on the other hand, we have not managed to fulfil our commitment to use 0.7% of gdp for development. if we had done so, the drc would certainly be more developed and maybe this entire conflict would not have happened at all. but let us take things as they are. we do not have time now to discuss development for kivu: we are facing a humanitarian crisis there. two hundred and fifty thousand additional people have been displaced over recent weeks. people are dying as a direct or indirect result of the fighting, and diseases such as cholera are spreading rapidly. since 2005 the un has accepted the concept of responsibility to protect. the un sent the peacekeeping force monuc to the drc. with 17 000 troops, monuc is the largest peacekeeping mission in the world operating under a strong chapter 7 mandate. but what can monuc do? the quality of soldiers and equipment is very poor and the size of the drc is enormous. i therefore strongly support the call to strengthen monuc, but realistically speaking it will be months before this reinforcement can be on the ground – precious months, during which people will die. for that reason, i propose sending a short-term european force to stabilise the region quickly until the reinforcement of monuc is operational and deployed in the field.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the brutal fighting in eastern congo is not just a civil war, it is also a regional conflict involving many neighboring countries. it's also about strategic raw materials like coltan, which we use to make our cell phones, dvd players and computers. it's also about gold, diamonds, cobalt and precious wood. here are the deeper causes of this conflict. what can and must be done? the united nations must be strengthened so that it can fulfil its responsibility to protect the civilian population from all armed forces, from all forces operating there. monuc needs a clearer mandate, more equipment and more manpower. the member states of the european union have consistently rejected requests to increase monuc in recent years. then there was a sharp criticism of the failures and mistakes of monuc. this double standard must end. we do not need an eu military contingent of our own now, we need the active reinforcement of monuc, and i have heard with interest and approval that this is also the direction the council and the commission want to take. the second important point is that the extraction and trade of raw materials from the congo must be strictly monitored internationally. the international corporations involved in this trade, which profit from the extraction of raw materials in the congo, must be controlled and made transparent. there is already an official un panel of experts on the illegal exploitation of congolese natural resources. this expert panel has made a number of recommendations, including sanctions against individuals and companies involved in this illegal exploitation. the european union must be strong in its efforts to enforce this un recommendation, and this is particularly the case here, where there are possibilities for action in relation to imports into the european union, because here we can act independently and actively enforce these un recommendations. the third point is that the initiative for an international conference on the great lakes must be advanced. only political cooperation and economic integration of the region can bring lasting peace. europe can and must play a key role in this.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the war on the ground involves a whole series of neighbouring countries, and above all the congolese government troops are directly involved, together with militias, with troops from angola on the one hand, on the other with nkunda, tutsi military and rwandan support. it's a regional war, not just about the eastern congo. a central point is that the congolese government is not yet ready to negotiate directly with the rebels. that would be a point where pressure would have to be applied. it would be very important to look at the actual background of this conflict. the german president himself has pointed out that this conflict is about raw materials. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the failure of the united states to take action. the main issue is also who actually holds the relevant mining licences. we really need to take action against these companies. i just want to name one of these names: the nuremberg-based company for electrometallurgy is apparently the direct owner of one of these central mines, which is also the subject of this dispute. i would like to say something about the role of monuc, because there is a general call for monuc to be increased. from what i've read, monuc is more part of the problem than part of the solution, because monuc itself describes itself as fighting on four fronts. the role of monuc should be different. we now know that indian or pakistani soldiers in monuc, according to human rights watch, are directly involved in arms dealing with irregular militias and are obviously involved in these resource wars. this can't be! the role of monuc must be completely different and neutral. in this respect, the call for an increase is not very helpful. i would also like to point out once again that the congo has played an important role here before, when it was a different operation of the european union. it was about securing elections, and mr kabila was installed, whose troops are now a major factor in the escalation. in this respect, it is worth looking closely at the role played by the european union in the installation of mr kabila. i think that what the eu has done here is very problematic. it must be said clearly: mr kabila and his troops must also be clearly criticized here. the report of the faz correspondent on the ground who was arrested was very worth reading. he described the conflict very well. the interplay between official and unofficial troops is clear here, i.e. a call for reinforcement of monuc alone is pointless, because what is really at stake is addressing the causes of this conflict.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner verheugen has shown very clearly how the crisis has spread from the financial market to the car market. in addition, there is no longer any confidence, and there is uncertainty about the future co2 regulation. i can therefore only ask my colleagues in this house and in the council to come very quickly to a reliable, clear regulation on the co2 regulation of cars, on the basis of the french presidency of the council, for which i can only congratulate you, mr joallier. but the most climate-friendly car we want in europe will be useless if it is in the shop window and not on the road. people don't just have to drive it, they have to be able to afford it. therefore, we call for the following triad: first, to put new models on the road. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. on 2 december, ecofin will meet, and we hope that a decision will be taken there to allow soft, low-interest loans to flow into the automotive industry. second, the car banks need to be secured. we cannot do that here in europe, it must be done under the roofs of the national bailouts and they must remain open. thirdly, we need scrapping premiums in europe. italy has done it. sweden is also, perhaps not quite as impressive as italy. that's how you get new models on the road through tax incentives. it would be nice if there were no european barriers to competition. that is why it would have been good if mrs cruz had been here. this is the way to a new paradigm!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as i said yesterday, i have serious doubts about the sincerity with which the commission is conducting this debate. in my view, commissioner, as the person who founded the cars 21 strategic group, you should first of all take responsibility for the failure to make the european automobile industry truly sustainable. what have you done in the last few years that the financial crisis is now being used to balance the books? the fact that the automobile industry in europe has a strategic problem is one of them. but that you have not taken into account your strategic weaknesses of recent years, your inability to promote eco-innovation, is unfair to me. if thousands or tens of thousands of families in europe are now trembling at the prospect of jobs in the automobile industry, then the commission, the commissioner and cars 21 have a responsibility for this. how can we say that the commission, and you in particular, commissioner, have done nothing to prevent the implementation of the strategic objectives resulting from the volatility of oil prices due to the finiteness of oil and from the requirements of climate protection? commissioner, you have personally blocked your colleague dimas' proposals for co2 regulation for passenger cars for years. they are the ones who are holding the brakes on the idea of making a binding target for efficient cars, which was voluntarily signed in the mid-1990s, binding for the middle of the next decade. they want less eco-innovation than was taken for granted in the mid-1990s. we have known since yesterday that, because of pressure from germany, the council is not even ready to sign binding targets for 2020 which are still close to those of the mid-1990s. i think that this duplicity, this hypocrisy of the debate on eco-innovation is a scandal. i would ask you to do in this trilogue what you have promised to do in this debate on innovation in the motor industry. everything else is really going to make you continue to take responsibility for making this industry and its suppliers unsustainable.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to stress once again the importance of the automotive industry, which provides 12 million direct and indirect jobs and is the world's leading technology industry. we must remember - commissioner verheugen and others have done so - that the automotive industry is naturally cyclical and oil price dependent and that buyer behaviour shows dramatic losses of confidence in times of financial market crisis. this is the main problem of the automobile industry. we have very strong competition here and it is not possible for any single company, or even any single state, to introduce measures which distort competition without the european commission taking care to avoid this distortion. i say that as a preliminary remark. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what i think is right is to encourage research and development into low-emission cars, either through the research programme or through loans, as proposed by the commission. i think it is necessary that the aid does not distort competition at the level of the member states. i am also firmly convinced that we must not change competition policy as a whole, as i have read in proposals in recent days, including from prominent members of this house. the commission is right to apply the competition rules strictly. but i also say that for management errors - like gm in the us and its subsidiaries - we may have to create transitional european solutions, but not permanent subsidies that have to be subject to competition law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what mrs harms said here is far from the truth.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in fact, the automobile industry is in crisis, and there are many reasons for this. the financial crisis in particular has exacerbated the crisis in this sector and member states are currently working on solutions. the european automotive industry is a key industry. that is why we need european solutions for this key european industry to deal with the crisis. almost all car companies have european structures. in order to make the necessary investments in environmentally friendly cars - this has been mentioned several times today - and in low-consumption technologies, car manufacturers need public guarantees or low-interest loans from the european investment bank. but the supplier industry - this is very important - must not be forgotten. it is in small and mediumsized enterprises that jobs are created and innovation takes place. but what can the european union do to protect this key industry? the council president made a proposal at the last plenary session to protect key industries. i think this is a good proposal, because if we think about it carefully, it means a volkswagen law for the whole european car industry. it would certainly be a good instrument. but this protectionist instrument is being challenged by the european commission at the moment, and here is my question to the commission: will it continue to pursue a legal action despite the crisis in the automobile industry, or will it change course now in the face of the crisis?
i have to say, madam president, first of all, we find that the markets in europe that are less penetrated have clear frameworks in terms of co2 tax legislation and clear frameworks in terms of what is expected from car manufacturers. mr jouyet, if your presidency succeeds in obliging the national states to create clear conditions as soon as possible, then consumer confidence will also be restored. this is the best help for the automotive industry. and there's a second thing we should do. we should not talk about billions in subsidies and at the same time threaten the car industry with billions in penalties if targets are not met. it's not gonna be a shoe. this is a massive uncertainty and makes the car more expensive for the consumer. we should do something different and set a vision and say, by the end of the decade, 2020, 20, 25, 30 percent of cars should be zero-emission. this would stimulate and drive innovation and provide consumers with clarity on the future strategy of the automotive industry in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a great honour and pleasure to welcome the chief rabbi of the united hebrew congregations of the commonwealth to the european parliament in strasbourg for this solemn session together with his wife in the context of the european year of intercultural dialogue 2008. i would like to welcome you, sir jonathan, to the european parliament. (applause from the centre) the first guest of this year's dialogue of cultures was the grand mufti of syria, sheikh ahmad badr al-din hassoun, who addressed our plenary session. later that year we heard an address by the ecumenical patriarch of constantinople, bartholomew i. with your speech today, mr. chief rabbi, we will have heard representatives of the jewish faith, the christian faith and islam. each of these religions has made its own special contribution to shaping what has become and characterizes today's european society. the same is true of humanism and the enlightenment. even if we live in secular societies where there is a clear separation of church and state, it is appropriate to give due recognition to the positive role that organized religion plays in our societies. this is true not only of the concrete contribution to areas such as education, health and social services, but equally of the development of our ethical consciousness and the shaping of our values. the european union is a community of values, the most fundamental of which is the inherent dignity of every human being. dear mr. chief rabbi, you are recognized as a great author and professor, an unsurpassed scholar and one of the world's foremost representatives of the jewish faith. you have written and spoken often about the danger that a resurgence of anti-semitism poses to our societies. last week we held a very special commemoration in the european parliament in brussels, which we organized together with the european jewish congress, to commemorate the 70th anniversary of the reichspoga. i have taken this opportunity to stress that we in the european union have a responsibility and a duty to oppose absolutely, without exception or conciliation, all forms of extremism, racism, xenophobia and anti-semitism and to defend democracy, the protection of human rights and human dignity worldwide. dear chief rabbi, in your book - and i'll close with this - the dignity of difference, written one year after the terrible events of september 11, 2001, you addressed one of the most fundamental questions of our time: can we all live together peacefully, and if so, how? it is now a great pleasure and honor to ask you, the chief rabbi of the united hebrew congregations of the commonwealth, to address us. (applause from the centre)
chief rabbi of the united hebrew congregations of the commonwealth. − mr president, members of the european parliament, i thank you for the privilege of addressing you today, and i thank you even more for undertaking this vital initiative of intercultural dialogue. i salute you all, but in particular your visionary, wise and deeply humane president, hans-gert pöttering. may i – in what i hope will be today my only breach of the separation between church and state, religion and politics – give my prayer and my blessing that god will bless all of you and all you do. thank you. i speak as a jew from within the oldest continuous cultural presence in europe. i want to begin by reminding us that european civilisation was born 2 000 years ago in a dialogue, a dialogue between the two greatest cultures of antiquity: ancient greece and biblical israel – athens and jerusalem. they were brought together by christianity, whose religion came from israel but whose sacred texts were written in greek, and that was the founding dialogue of europe. and some of the greatest moments in european history in the intervening 2 000 years were the result of dialogue. i will mention just three. the first took place between the 10th and 13th centuries in al-andalus, in the great cultural movement initiated by the umayyads in spain. it began with an islamic dialogue on the part of thinkers like averroës with the philosophical heritage of plato and aristotle. the islamic dialogue inspired jewish thinkers like moses maimonides, and the jewish dialogue inspired christian thinkers, most famously aquinas. the second great moment of intercultural dialogue took place at the beginning of the italian renaissance when a young christian intellectual, pico della mirandola, travelled to padua, where he met a jewish scholar, rabbi elijah delmedigo, who taught him the hebrew bible, the talmud and kabbalah in their original languages. out of that dialogue came the most famous statement of renaissance values: pico’s oration on human dignity. the third and most poignant of them all has been the dialogue between christians and jews after the holocaust, inspired by martin buber’s philosophy of dialogue and by vatican ii and nostra aetate. the result has been that, after almost 2 000 years of estrangement and tragedy, today jews and christians meet in mutual respect as friends. but i want to say more than this. as i read the hebrew bible, i hear from the very beginning god’s call to dialogue. i want to draw attention to two passages. i am not quite sure how this will go down in translation, so i hope anyone who is listening to me in translation will get it. i want to draw attention to two passages in the opening chapters of the bible whose meaning has been lost in translation for 2 000 years. the first occurs when god sees the first man isolated and alone and he creates woman. and man, seeing woman for the first time, utters the first poem in the bible: ‘now i have found bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh. she shall be called aisha, woman, for she was taken from aish, man’. now this sounds like a very simple poem. it even sounds rather condescending, as if the man was the first creation and women were a mere afterthought. however, the real meaning lies in the fact that biblical hebrew has two words for man, not one. one is adam, and the other is aish. this verse that i just quoted to you is the first time the word ‘aish’ appears in the bible. listen again. ‘she shall be called aisha, because she was taken from aish’. in other words, the man has to pronounce the name of his wife before he even knows his own name. i have to say ‘you’ before i can say ‘i’. i have to acknowledge the other, before i can truly understand myself. (loud applause)that is the first point the bible makes: identity is dialogical. the second occurs soon after, in the first great tragedy that overcomes the first human children cain and abel. we expect brotherly love. instead there is sibling rivalry and then murder, fratricide. and at the heart of this story in genesis, chapter iv, is a verse that is impossible to translate and in every english bible i have ever read the verse is not translated, it is paraphrased. i am going to translate it literally and you will see why no one translates it that way. literally the hebrew means as follows: ‘and cain said to abel, and it came to pass when they were out in the field that cain rose up against abel and killed him.’ you can see immediately why it cannot be translated because it says ‘and cain said’ but it does not say what he said. the sentence is ungrammatical. the syntax is fractured. and the question is, why? the answer is clear: the bible is signalling in the most dramatic way, in a broken sentence, how the conversation broke down. the dialogue failed. and what do we read immediately afterwards? ‘and cain rose up against his brother and killed him’. or to put it simply: where words end, violence begins. dialogue is the only way to defeat the worst angels of our nature. (loud applause) dialogue therefore testifies to the double aspect of all human relationships, whether they are between individuals or between countries or cultures or creeds. our commonalities, on the one hand, and our differences on the other. what we hold in common and what is uniquely ours. let me put it as simply as i can. if we were completely different we could not communicate, but if we were totally the same we would have nothing to say. (applause)and that is all i have to say about dialogue, and yet i want to add that dialogue may not be quite enough. you see, between the late 18th century and 1933 there was dialogue between jews and germans, just as there was dialogue and even friendship between hutus and tutsis in rwanda, or between serbs and croats and muslims in bosnia and kosovo. dialogue brings us together, but it cannot always keep us together when other forces are driving us apart. therefore, i want to add one other word, which played a significant part in healing fragmented societies. the word is ‘covenant’. it played a major role in european politics in the 16th and 17th centuries in switzerland, in holland, in scotland and in england. covenant has been part of american culture from the very beginning to today, from the mayflower compact in 1620, to john winthrop’s speech aboard the arabella in 1631, all the way through to the present. i do not know what barack obama will say when he makes his inaugural speech but he will either mention or allude to the concept of covenant. covenant is, of course, a key word of the hebrew bible for a simple reason: biblical israel was formed out of 12 different tribes, each of which had insisted on retaining its distinct identity. what is a covenant? a covenant is not a contract. a contract is made for a limited period, for a specific purpose, between two or more parties, each seeking their own benefit. a covenant is made open-endedly by two or more parties who come together in a bond of loyalty and trust to achieve together what none can achieve alone. a contract is like a deal; a covenant is like a marriage. contracts belong to the market and to the state, to economics and politics, both of which are arenas of competition. covenants belong to families, communities, charities, which are arenas of cooperation. a contract is between me and you – separate selves – but a covenant is about us – collective belonging. a contract is about interests; a covenant is about identity. and hence the vital distinction, not made clearly enough in european politics, between a social contract and a social covenant: a social contract creates a state; a social covenant creates a society. (applause)you can have a society without a state – that has happened at times in history – but can you have a state without a society, without anything to hold people together? i do not know. you can hold people together in many different ways: by force, by fear, by suppressing cultural difference, by expecting everyone to conform. but when you choose to respect the integrity of many cultures, when you honour what i call – as the president reminded us – the dignity of difference, when you honour that, then to create a society you need a covenant. covenant restores the language of cooperation to a world of competition. it focuses on responsibilities, not just on rights. rights are essential, but rights create conflicts that rights cannot resolve: the right to life against the right to choose; my right to freedom against your right to respect. rights without responsibilities are the subprime mortgages of the moral world. (loud applause)what covenant does is to get us to think about reciprocity. covenant says to each of us: we must respect others if we expect others to respect us; we must honour the freedom of others if they are to honour ours. europe needs a new covenant and the time to begin it is now. (applause)now, in the midst of financial crisis and economic recession, because in bad times people are aware that we all share a fate. the prophet isaiah foresaw a day when the lion and the lamb would live together. it has not happened yet. although there was a zoo where a lion and a lamb lived together in the same cage and a visitor asked the zookeeper: ‘how do you manage that?’. the zookeeper said: ‘easy, you just need a new lamb every day!’. (laughter)but there was a time when the lion and the lamb did live together. where was that? in noah’s ark. and why was that? it was not because they had reached utopia but because they knew that otherwise they would both drown. friends, last thursday – six days ago – the archbishop of canterbury and i led a mission of the leaders of all the faiths in britain, leaders of the muslim community, the hindus, the sikhs, the buddhists, the jains, the zoroastrians and the baha’i, and together we travelled and spent a day in auschwitz. there we wept together, and there we prayed together, knowing what happens when we fail to honour the humanity of those not like us. god has given us many languages and many cultures, but only one world in which to live together, and it is getting smaller every day. may we, the countries and the cultures of europe, in all our glorious diversity, together write a new european covenant of hope. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation.)
sir jonathan, on behalf of the european parliament, i am honoured to thank you for your important message. i would like to thank you for your great contribution to the intercultural dialogue. you spoke about the mutual respect and acknowledgement of others. i think this is what we have learnt from our european history. you said that what unites us is much more than that which divides us. this is the principle – and you finished with this – of our european engagement for a strong, democratic european union which is based on the dignity of each human being. sir jonathan, thank you for your great message. all the best to you, the religion you represent and the peaceful living together of all religions on our continent and in the world. thank you, sir jonathan. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to make a statement on the report on the modulation. the last agrarian reform decided that farmers would have planning security until 2013. that is why i was against the introduction of modulation on a scale which would have led to higher amounts being taken from farmers. i am pleased with the result and i thank all the members who voted in favour of raising the exemption limit from eur 5 000 to eur 10 000, thus reducing the amount of modulation funds that is being withdrawn from smaller firms. if we are talking about planning security in politics, we should also give it to farmers. i am therefore pleased with the outcome of today's modulation report and hope that the council will adopt our findings.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the milk quota report called for an increase in milk quotas. i have voted with all my colleagues in the csu against all the motions calling for quota increases. the milk quota decided until 31 march 2015 is intended to stabilise milk markets in europe. the situation we have at the moment is that there is an oversupply on the european milk markets. this has put a great deal of pressure on milk prices. every further increase in quotas increases the price decline for milk producers. many farmers are threatened with their livelihoods. we need not an increase in quotas but a system which is flexible in response to market conditions. but if a majority here in parliament and in the council decides to end milk quotas by 2015, then a milk fund is necessary to ensure that milk production in the less-favoured areas and grassland areas continues into the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the capoulas santos report and for amendment no 186, which calls for a modulation allowance of eur 10 000. this is the small-scale farming in europe. modulation must be done with measurement and purpose. the european union's support is needed for european farming to survive in the european union's wage system. we want healthy food to be produced in europe, we want food at affordable prices, we want landscapes that are well-kept. if we really want all this, we must also support our farmers so that europe - in one of the most climate-friendly zones in the world - can produce healthy food in the future. that is why i supported the capoulas santos report.
in writing. - in today's vote on the health review of the common agricultural policy (cap), i voted against the report on the milk sector. i believe that without a market analysis, there should be no further increase in quotas. the demand by parliament to increase the quota by 5 times 1%, as proposed by the commission, is a completely wrong signal. i am very pleased, however, that parliament has once again voted in favour of the milk fund. the savings in the agricultural budget and in the milk sector in particular will make a very effective contribution to the relief and restructuring of this sector. i also support the call for the commission, parliament and council to submit a report on the milk market by 31 december 2010 and then to discuss further measures relating to the milk quota system. i also welcome the increase in the exemption from the modulation from eur 5 000 to eur 10 000 per year. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it has already been indicated why i am allowed to speak here today, namely because mrs klamt has a serious family tragedy. we offer our condolences. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her excellent cooperation. you know that the report was drawn up in close cooperation between the committee on internal affairs and the committee on employment of the european parliament under the enhanced cooperation procedure. i would therefore like to thank all the colleagues who took part in it, including the shadow rapporteurs in the committee on the interior. the rapporteur would also like to express her gratitude to the french presidency of the council, which has been in close contact with us in recent months. i would like to stress once again, as a member of the pan-european parliament, that it would have been better if the agreement at the level of the ambassadors had been reached only after the european parliament had given its opinion. that would have been a nice sign of close cooperation. let's get down to business. we are in a global competition for highly skilled workers. the european union, with a share of 1.72 per cent of total employment, is well behind all competitors. australia, canada, the united states and even switzerland have higher rates of highly skilled people in their employment. the european union is currently in a bad starting position in the competition for the best and brightest minds. we all know that this question is crucial for the future, for the innovation capacity of our economies. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter by the end of the year. the report by ewa klamt, which was voted on by the internal affairs committee, first sets out the criteria for the admission of highly qualified third-country nationals. the first is the definition of the highly qualified. it is a question of the wages to be paid. the directive covers persons with a university degree and persons with comparable professional experience of at least five years. the commission had initially proposed a three-year period of professional experience. the european parliament also takes the salary criterion a step further. the minimum wage is to be 1.7 times the average gross annual wage. the council is assuming 1.5 times. i would therefore like to emphasize that the european parliament is calling for a higher definition of the highly qualified. the next thing is the question of brain drain. it's an important question. how do we meet this challenge? the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. an application for a blue card may be refused if brain drain is a real problem. on the other hand, we must also be honest about the fact that, even if we take brain drain seriously, we are in a global competition and that is why the time limitation provided for by the blue card is necessary. of course, the attractiveness of europe as a destination for highly qualified immigrants is not only determined by administrative issues. it's about cultural issues, it's about openness to immigration, it's about the best minds. but we must not neglect the european added value which the blue card gives us. for the first time we have succeeded in establishing a uniform system of authorization throughout europe. this is a real european added value. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this means that if there are colleagues from within europe who are qualified for jobs, they must be given preference over the blue card. we also have to emphasize that we all agreed - and we should also communicate this in the home countries - that we want to standardize the procedures, but we do not want to set european quotas, that is, we do not want to define how much immigration there should be. this must and should remain a matter of national competence. i would like to thank all those involved on behalf of the rapporteur. i hope that tomorrow we will get a similarly good result as we already had in the committee on the interior.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, let me express my heartfelt condolences to mrs klamt and congratulate her on this report. we need highly qualified people from third countries on our labour markets, partly because we have invested too little in training and have sent too many skilled workers into unemployment who are no longer available on the market. in the long term, therefore, more needs to be done for in-house training and further training, and labour markets need to be opened up to highly qualified immigrants. the blue card is a first step, even with a possible triple win situation. first, companies can fill part of their vacancies with skilled workers in the medium term and benefit from the new international know-how. secondly, highly qualified people and their immediate family members are given a perspective that they might not have in their home countries. and thirdly, by returning to their home countries temporarily or afterwards, they can make a major contribution to the economic development of their country of origin. there is reason to be concerned about the possibility of a brain drain. we therefore call for the education and health sectors in particular not to be actively recruited in the countries of origin, which are affected by emigration and by the shortage of labour and skilled workers. however, this is a development issue which we will not be able to resolve in this framework. we must also remember that no one is a slave to the state. just as our citizens can look for work in other countries or leave the country without too many obstacles, so others should be able to work in the eu. we are of course also entitled to equal pay for equal work. of course, there is always room for improvement, and improvement is necessary. but i think this is the first step in the absolutely right direction.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. to tackle illegal immigration, to meet the challenges of demographic change, to strengthen our competitiveness and at the same time to ensure a high level of social peace, we need a common immigration policy now more than ever. there is a consensus in this house on this. i would therefore like to thank all four rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. but for my group, a common immigration policy must include all immigrants, otherwise it is really going too far. this means that the principle of equal treatment must apply without restriction to all when it comes to workers' rights, when it comes to access to education and when it comes to access to social security systems. i therefore ask you to vote in favour of my group's amendments tomorrow. the framework directive must also apply to seasonal workers, refugees and persons who have applied for temporary protection. as regards the blue card, i would ask you to correct the result of the vote by the committee in charge tomorrow in the sense that the european labour market must not be open only to migrants from countries with which we already have partnership agreements. there must be no such restriction. i am glad to hear that the commission shares this view. finally, a word to the council. i would urge you to adopt both directives together. if we are serious about equal treatment, we cannot adopt principles of equal treatment for highly qualified people only and then perhaps for other migrants at a later stage.
president of the council. - mr president, the richness of the debates shows the quality of the reports that have been produced. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the rapporteurs for opinion, mr masiel, mrs jeleva and mrs panayotopoulos, again and say that, indeed, as our discussions have shown, the agreement on legal immigration is a great step forward. four years ago, nobody wanted to hear about community tools. we know that we can go further in a few years. i also congratulate the commission, through vice-president barrot, for having been able to launch the debate and ensure that our ambitions in this area are growing so rapidly. i would like to thank the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs for their work. president deprez has found the right words, the right balance and the voice of reason; he is in favour of an open europe and i welcome that. mrs roure also wants, with nuances, that europe be prepared for the century of displacement of populations, and that is what we are trying to do. these two texts, as mrs lefrançois has stressed, are a beginning and not an end, and they do leave room for circular migration. on the question of community preference, as raised by mrs gabrowska and mr gál, and by mr fava and mr catania, in particular, i would point out that the blue card will not apply until 2011, when the transitional arrangements of the accession treaties have come to an end, and that it does not offer a status equivalent to that of union citizens. we are also prepared and we want to recall in the text the principle of community preference enshrined in the accession treaties. in the light of the many interventions on brain drain, in particular those by mr kreissl-dörfler and mr borghezio, mrs budreikaitė, mr moreno, mrs lambert and mrs roure, i believe that the european parliament has expressed its legitimate concern about including safeguards in the blue card to turn brain drain into brain gain, and it seems to me that there are three main ways of doing this. firstly, the directive must not in any way take precedence over european agreements or agreements between certain member states and countries of origin, which would draw up lists of professions to be excluded from its scope in order to ensure ethical recruitment in sectors suffering from labour shortages. secondly, member states must be given the possibility of being responsible in the context of a case-by-case examination: they must be able to reject a blue card application in order to ensure ethical recruitment. finally, the directive must be able to encourage the circular migration of highly qualified workers and, of course, as has been stressed, to emphasize the training needs in the countries of origin. i do not think, however, that the issuing of blue cards should be systematically prohibited without agreement with a country of origin. as vice-president barrot has pointed out, i think that this would create discrimination and would relegate the requests to national arrangements, and that it is therefore preferable to negotiate on a case-by-case basis. as regards the distinction between highly skilled and unskilled workers, which has been raised by mr busuttil and mrs lefrançois, in particular, and by mrs lambert, i think we must proceed in stages. at present, unfortunately, there is no consensus on legal migration to act at community level on all segments of the labour market. however, we are making progress, because there is a single set of rights for all workers from third countries in the european union, and we must start with highly qualified workers, seasonal workers, displaced workers and trainees. the stockholm programme may enable us to go further. contrary to what mrs flautre and other speakers have said, the rights guaranteed by the blue card do not impose any restrictions on freedom of association, on employment rights - quite the contrary - and this blue card will be the only tool which will allow migrants to exercise a right to mobility in order to have a skilled occupational activity in the union, which is not possible today through national schemes. that is the great advantage of this text. to answer mr pirker also on the time limit within which these benefits end in the event of unemployment - it is true that there is a three-month time limit - the presidency of the european union would have liked this time limit to be longer in what is being proposed, but no consensus has been reached in this area. some states even wished that there should be no delay at all, which was of course not the wish of the presidency. finally, in reply to mr fava, recital 16 of the council's text clearly states the principle of equal treatment in terms of pay between workers from third countries and community nationals for equal work. this is confirmed by article 15 (1) of the same text.
member of the commission. - mr president, i shall simply supplement the remarks of mr jouyet, who seems to me to have expressed the interest we have all taken in your work this afternoon. thank you to all the speakers, thank you to your rapporteurs, who have done a good job. i would simply like to reiterate that the proposal for a directive fully respects the community preference. moreover, this community preference is enshrined in the treaties of accession to the european union, and the treaties say that if a member state applies temporary restrictions to the free movement of workers from another member state, it must give them priority in terms of access to the labour market compared to workers from a third country. i say this to the parliamentarians of the new member states because it must be remembered. i also have to answer those who have expressed concern about the risk of brain drain. i would remind you that the proposal calls for a clause on ethical recruitment in order to limit or even prohibit active advertising which might be practised by member states in developing countries, which are already facing a serious brain drain. we also have in this proposal the possibility for a member state to reject applications for blue cards on the basis of ethical recruitment considerations. we have measures to facilitate circular migration and we have an obligation for member states to provide the commission with annual statistics on the application of the directive to enable it to monitor the impact of this legislation. it is true that we must avoid actively recruiting in countries that suffer from severe shortages, especially in the health sector in africa, and all this will be solved by developing partnerships with the countries of origin. thirdly, i would of course like to say that this text will be followed by other commission proposals. so in march next year i will be asked to present a text on legal migration for seasonal workers, for paid trainees, for employees who are in a multinational group and who are to be transferred. so, as mrs lefrançois said, this is a start and we will have to continue to have a complete framework for legal immigration. i simply repeat, following what jean-pierre jouyet has said very well, that there is really a very strong will to treat all these immigrants and newcomers to the european union with equal rights which, once again, also reflects the ideal of our european community. i have noted many observations and comments. we shall have to talk again about these problems of migration in the coming months. i think we must get used to dealing with them without passion, with a lot of objectivity and a lot of justice, while recognizing that we also need immigration, but immigration that, precisely, finds a reliable and fair legal framework for all.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative of putting forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i would like to begin by expressing my good wishes and sympathy to mrs klamt. i thank you for the debate and would like to emphasize three points. i would first like to reject the partly nationalist tone we have heard today. they certainly do not have a majority in this house and should be rejected in the strongest possible terms. secondly, i would like to refer to the question of legal immigration, which we need for the innovation capacity of our economies, but also to the fight against illegal immigration, which are two sides of the same coin. the citizens of europe expect us to be both open to immigration, which is sensible and right, and to fight illegal immigration. and thirdly, yes, you might have expected the blue card issue, but i also say that this is a good first step that we are taking to perform globally with a common label. so i say let's take this step together, and then we'll be one step further. let us vote on the legislation accordingly tomorrow.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. on 3 december this year, the convention on the prohibition of cluster munitions will be signed in oslo. in dublin, 107 countries agreed, they promised they would sign. our appeal today, two weeks before this conference, is worldwide: keep your promises! sign it, and above all, ratify it quickly! the war in the caucasus, the use of cluster bombs by both the georgian and russian sides, is a call to us not to waste any more time. we have expectations of the european commission and the council. we expect all the member states of the european union to sign on 3 december, in particular those european states which are still in doubt, namely greece, latvia, poland, romania and the republic of cyprus. we expect the european union to continue to work for a legally binding ban on cluster munitions within the framework of the united nations convention on certain conventional weapons. we are unanimous in condemning the incredible move by the united states, russia and china at the last geneva conference to legalise cluster munitions under the un arms convention. we want to continue to examine the synergies and links between the future oslo convention and the ottawa convention on the banning of all landmines. in our resolution we call on the commission to provide more funds - substantially more funds - to protect people in these contaminated areas and to clear these cluster munitions. this applies to lebanon, the balkans and all the other regions. we have no reliable stable financial resources there. it can't be. if we are serious about this fight, the commission must look for ways of financing it. i would like to stress once again for my group that our aim remains a legally binding ban on the use, stockpiling or production of these absolutely inhumane weapons, which have been a scourge for the civilian population for decades. i would also like to make it quite clear once again that their use in countries - including those where the european union has police and military forces, such as afghanistan, bosnia and the congo - endangers our mission as much as it endangers the people themselves.
member of the commission. − i wish to begin by saying that of course we are following all the data and everything that concerns the framework programme. this is available and we can provide you with the data. we also have regular monitoring reports, which are envisaged until the end of the year, and in addition we will have a progress report – i think at the end of may 2009. but the progress report is much more: it is about providing the input of ideas on how we should proceed in the future. part of the logical implementation of the framework programme is to follow what you do and where you are investing or spending the funds. concerning tax-free income: i was always in favour of using those instruments which would stimulate science and research, including tax-free incomes. one of the problems which we have to deal with in this crisis and difficult situation is how to stimulate research and development so we are not in the same situation as companies. because of the pressures they would certainly consider reducing investment in research and development. this avenue is one of the possibilities, but we also have to be aware that we have a flexible growth and stability pact, which has to be followed, and we have to consider that the situation is certainly not the same in all member states. member states have different kinds of manoeuvres which they have established during the good times, when economies were better. finally, you asked me about the ethical approach, which was also mentioned in another question. i think we have truly invested a lot in order to reach an agreement on which to base our ethical approach in science and research and also when we are using the framework programmes. agreement is difficult. there are different views across the european union member states, and we can be quite proud that we have established something like clear ethical procedures which are, in reality and in practice, proving to be based on true ethics.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm sorry about that. i'm usually very punctual. but there are two sides to punctuality, and this question time is late. that is why i was in the group meeting, and as soon as i saw on the screen that commissioner potočnik was starting, i ran over and came in the second he started. i would ask you to be generous enough to refer to question no 42, because i actually came to the plenary the second commissioner potočnik was called. you may not have seen me. i walked in.
member of the commission. − this is certainly a difficult and complex area. the debate on cloning at the commission refers to the use of a technology called somatic cell nucleus transfer (scnt) with particular reference to farm animal breeding and how to deal with food produced from these cloned animals and their offspring. in the case of the use of this cloning technique in livestock reproduction and breeding in the agrofood sector, the questions are in particular related to animal health and welfare. in the case of the safety of food derived from cloned animals and their offspring, the questions are in particular related to any possible risk to human health and to the consumer’s right to be informed. the debate does not cover the use of scnt in research. the commission has been following the development of scnt since 1996, when the first cloned mammal, dolly the sheep, was born. in 1997 the commission asked the group of advisers on the ethical implications of biotechnology to issue an opinion on the ethics of cloning. in 2004, the commission financed the project ‘cloning in public’ under the sixth framework programme. this allowed an eu-wide debate to be launched as a first opportunity to have preliminary discussions with academics and civil society on ethical, legal and other societal aspects of farm animal cloning. the study concluded that the public is not well informed about the use and implications of cloning. the jrc published a study in 2007 in nature biotechnology on the prospects for future commercial use of cloning technology. the study mapped the state of the art of the commercial applications of animal cloning worldwide and produced a pipeline of products and their estimated time of arrival on the market. the conclusion was that cloned animals were not expected to arrive on the eu market before 2010 and that reproductive materials – semen – from cloned animals may be the first products to be traded. over recent years, the commission has received information that the technology of somatic cell nuclear transfer for the reproduction of farm animals is about to reach its commercial stage, in particular in third countries, notably the usa. based on the final risk assessment, a report written by the us food and drug administration scientists and issued in january 2008 concluded that the consumption of food from cloned animals and their offspring is safe as long as the food comes from healthy animals, which is a general principle in food safety. only healthy animals enter the food chain. in order to prepare for an informed political debate, in 2007 the commission asked the european food safety authority (efsa) to assess the actual and potential risks associated with the use of this technology in food production and also asked the european group of ethics (ege) to issue an opinion on the ethical aspects of animal cloning for food supply. the group released their opinion in january 2008 and the authority in july 2008. according to efsa, ‘based on current knowledge ... there is no indication that differences exist in terms of food safety between food products [derived] from healthy [animal] clones and their progeny, compared with those from healthy conventionally-bred animals’. concerning the general health conditions of clones, the efsa opinion states that there is no indication of adverse effects for the sexually reproduced progeny of cattle or pig clones. however, clones and their progeny have not yet been studied throughout the whole of their natural life span. at present the ege does not see convincing arguments to justify the production of food from clones and their offspring. the commission also asked for a eurobarometer survey to be carried out on the attitude of europeans towards animal cloning. the results were made available in october 2008. the study showed that 58% of the respondents were against cloning for food production purposes. the commission is now carefully considering these various elements to prepare an informal political debate on the use of somatic cell nucleus transfer for the reproduction of farm animals and food production. should it be considered necessary to further develop the regulatory framework, it is important to recall that the new provisions would of course have to comply with the ec treaty and with world trade organisation rules.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank the president for his generosity and the commissioner for his good answer. i would like to ask the commission whether it can definitively rule out the possibility that human cloning - in any form - is or will be part of this strategy.
president of the council. - madam president, i will try to follow your instructions. mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the debate was extremely rich and it is clear from the various speeches that there are many ways of solving this demographic challenge. there are some areas of action which are extremely complementary, and i shall come back to them. to a certain extent it is true that we must increase employment rates, it is true that we will also need immigration to solve the demographic deficit and it is important, in this context, that it remains controlled and organized. it is also true that we need the family and birth support policies that exist; it is true that there are demands for solidarity towards the elderly and that their care must be strengthened. it is also true that we must pay particular attention to the development of collective infrastructure in education, childcare and also in the management of the risks of addiction for the elderly. as several speakers have also pointed out, we must take account of our strengths, including the emergence of new information technologies, with the efforts in research and development, with all the flexibility that can exist in the field of medical and health care, with everything that can be done to prevent and help prenatal diagnosis, everything that can be done for early childhood care and collective care. so there's a set of challenges but also assets that exist to address this demographic challenge. we must also be prepared to take account of the consequences of this demographic change, as was also stressed in the debate, on the viability of our social protection systems and the viability of the pension system, which are one of the characteristics of the european solidarity model. we must take long-term measures, despite the economic and financial crisis we are going through, to ensure that this is sustainable and we must also, of course, take account of the consequences of this profound demographic change on the different forms of work organisation. mr cappato has emphasized this point with a specific example and he is quite right. in conclusion, i believe that the commission - but commissioner potočnik will say this - the parliament and the council must continue the dialogue in the spirit of this debate. this is undoubtedly the long-term challenge that europe must most certainly anticipate, organize and face, and in the face of which nothing relating to the concerns that we have in the context of the economic and financial crisis must prevent us from continuing our action and adaptation.
member of the commission. − madam president, we have heard today a clear message that we have a very serious challenge – that of the ageing of society. in many ways the 21st century is an era of fragility, and we have to deal with this. we all have to do everything possible. as was mentioned, longevity should be a reward and not a punishment. it was also mentioned that it would be consistent to do this in the context of the lisbon agenda, and i agree. we can understand the lisbon agenda in a simple way, going towards a knowledge-based society and being concerned about sustainability, whether it be in relation to social security, the environment or the economy. what we have learnt from this crisis is that even the profits have to be clearly sustainable. so the present financial crisis should not divert our attention from any of the problems which we have been patiently discussing in recent years, including the problem which we are discussing today. it is only one additional problem. when we have dealt with it, we have to come out of the financial crisis with a structure that is capable of dealing with all the challenges which the 21st century brings us. so it is important that in this context we are aware of all the possible aspects of sustainability – sustainability of the planet on which we live, between living beings on the planet, between us humans and between generations, which is very much the essence of the demographic question which we are discussing today. our policies should definitely address this. the demographic forum to be held on 24 and 25 november – which i mentioned in my opening address – is certainly one good opportunity to do so. we should certainly continue the dialogue between the council, member states, parliament and the commission. your discussions today prove that the debate is very timely. i would like to thank you on behalf of the commission for those views. all the things you have mentioned are extremely important – promoting demographic renewal, reconciliation of family and working life, the questions of carers, mobility and anti-discrimination and other policies. all this is valid when we talk about this problem.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. an own-initiative report on the future of social security and pension systems is a fascinating task because of its timeliness and complexity. but it is in danger of becoming an oversized catalogue of wishes and demands for all those who think cheaply and fairly. we are not succumbing to this temptation, as the text, which is relatively concise, very technical and avoids overly florid phrasing, shows at first sight. i would therefore like to thank all my colleagues, in particular the shadow rapporteurs and mrs lulling, as author of the opinion of the committee on women's rights, for the discipline they have shown in this respect. it was my intention to produce a report which would provide all decision-makers and interested parties with both a picture of developments over the next 30 to 40 years and a stimulus for reflection and recommendations for action in individual social areas. social security and pension systems have traditionally been different in design, size and financing in the member states, which is why harmonisation at eu level is also out of the question. however, all are facing difficulties due to demographic trends and changes in the labour market as a result of globalisation. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the 'broader so' is not supported by any of the existing systems, according to all the scientific evidence. that's the first important finding. the reforms to be carried out in the individual member states will of course vary according to the structure. we believe that, firstly, better and more measures are needed in all systems to reconcile family and work, so that the employment rate can be maintained and social and social problems are not exacerbated by too much labour immigration. secondly, despite the authorization of so-called atypical employment relationships, we must maintain the classical full-time employment relationship for an indefinite period of time, because only this guarantees the stability of living conditions and social security systems. thirdly, in addition to the financial protection of social expenditure by levies and capital-backed mixed forms, we must give priority to social investment. fourthly, we must increase labour productivity and the capacity for innovation, because in europe we have essentially only human capital. fifth, we must ensure high quality health care that is accessible to all, with medical advances and declining contributions guaranteeing basic health care for all. sixthly, women must be protected or given special privileges against their specific risks and especially against poverty in old age, for example by crediting childcare periods with the pension insurance. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. this is particularly true in a world that is changing through globalisation, which is increasingly depersonalized and anonymised. solidarity and subsidiarity are the basic principles of the european social model. in this sense, globalisation must be socially shaped so that skilled and adaptable workers can earn a living in dignity for themselves and their families, receive good treatment in the event of illness and have financial security in old age.
president of the council. - madam president, commissioner potočnik, ladies and gentlemen, this is a really exciting debate and in some ways a moving one. i am particularly grateful to mr cashman for his very strong testimony, i know he is very often in contact with mrs bachelot, who apologizes for not being here tonight and who has said that we really need to act as if we are all concerned and work with the most at risk communities. mr. savi also said that we should talk openly about his condition. mr burke insisted on the values of tolerance, on equal access. mrs guinness was right when she said that we must not forget what happened in the 1980s. i would like to stress - i think there is a real common approach and a certain will - to what mr bowis has indicated, namely that more and more people are living with aids today and that there is an increase in resistance to antivirals. we must therefore live with both phenomena and that is why we must, for all the reasons you have indicated, fight even more firmly against all forms of discrimination. secondly, we need to make sure, as everyone has said, that we have early diagnosis. mrs gurmai was quite right to emphasize the fragility of the female population and the need to strengthen prevention in particular, mrs doyle emphasized the development of the virus among young people and the need also to strengthen prevention efforts while ensuring, as mrs gurmai stressed, that there are no obstacles to freedom of movement. this means that transparency, what mr cashman also said about anonymity, about the fact that it is free, that we must develop the distribution of condoms, develop these tests under conditions of equal access for all populations, all this seems extremely important to me. i have learned from mr agnoletto, whose expertise is well known, that there are enough retrovirals to prolong life, but no cure, and that we must therefore strengthen prevention at all costs. mr bowis also added that there was a need to strengthen research and development. i think that it is really on these aspects that we must continue to work together, that we must find the means to do so, and i fully agree with mr andrejevs on the motion for a resolution to develop everything that has to do with early treatment. i think that this debate will enable us to remain vigilant, to be vigilant, to fight against all forms of discrimination and to remember everything that has happened, and not to pretend that the situation has returned to normal.
member of the commission. − madam president, i took part in a conference either at the beginning of this week or last week – sometimes i am probably like you these days, a bit lost in time. it was a conference on poverty-related diseases. of course, hiv and aids are among the three big killers nowadays, malaria and tuberculosis being the second and the third. every year five million people still die from these three diseases globally, which is the equivalent of the population of denmark disappearing every year. the problem is so clearly still present that it would simply be immoral not to give enough attention to it. we have to do everything possible on the preventive campaigns. we have to do more because we have slept a bit there. we have to do everything possible to ensure early identification if somebody is infected. we have to do more to find a cure; we have to do more about taking care. since, as you know, i am responsible for financing research in the commission, i can clearly give a commitment that we will also in the future use our funds to actively search for an hiv-aids vaccine. we have one excellent project which has now been running for many years. it is called the edctp. it is the clinical trials partnership with the sub-saharan countries. it had a lot of problems at the beginning but now it is really running smoothly and only last year, in 2007, we gave a commitment here; the member states are working here together with the commission. all the member states are cooperating with african member states in building their capacity. in one year alone they committed between eur 80 million and eur 90 million and this is of course doubled because we commit the other half. so research should continue in this area too. just as commissioner vassiliou, my colleague, is committed in her area, i am also committed in my area to continue in the search. one thing which was not mentioned here today, and i think it should be mentioned, is the importance of the neighbourhood policy and structural cohesion policy, because these are precisely the countries in europe or in our neighbourhood where this is a critical issue. this could and should also be used for these purposes. to conclude: in simple terms we have a moral obligation as human beings to take action. i am really happy that our voice today was so clear. it was so united and even passionate.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and chair of the committee on agriculture and rural development, mr parish, and the members of the committee on agriculture for the report. i could be very short and just reassure you but i have to read the speaking points. we have been working very hard at simplifying the common agricultural policy (cap). a single common market organisation (cmo) covering all agricultural sectors is a keystone of this effort. it allows for streamlining legislation across sectors whilst taking into account the specifications of particular products. it has also substantially reduced the volume of cap legislation. this commission proposal aims at completing the single cmo project by integrating the wine sector also. without wine, the single cmo would simply remain incomplete. we would stop part way through the process and lose many of the benefits of the projects. we have always intended to include wine. indeed, both the initial single cmo proposal and the recent wine reform were drafted and adopted on that basis. i am glad to say that the european parliament has always fully endorsed the single cmo project, including the integration of fruit and vegetables and wine after the completion of the reforms in those sectors. the single cmo, and its management committee, has been working very well for other sectors and there has been no particular criticism of it. the proposal for integration might seem complex at first sight. but this is inherent in the nature of amending legislation. after incorporation, consolidated versions of the single cmo will become available, which will show very clearly the wine provisions. the integration of the single cmo will not make any substantive changes to the policy decided in the wine reform. the services of my colleague mrs fischer boel will work hard with the european parliament and the council to ensure that this is the case. we did this very successfully during the integration of the equally complex fruit and vegetables sector. i would therefore ask you to help the commission, to help my colleague, to continue her and our simplification work and give a positive opinion on this proposal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am disappointed, commissioner, in what you have said, because we have been in talks with the commission on the basis of what neil parish has said. i would have hoped for more concrete statements than the prayer-mill repetition that it gets easier. it doesn't get any easier. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of wine. the aim of a great simplification in the sense of a complete reduction of bureaucracy is something that neither i nor the winegrowers of europe can see. anyone who wants to look up something about the wine sector in future will have to find out all the points relating to wine in a thick regulation, the single common organization of the market with all agricultural products in 204 articles so far and an annex twice as large, divided into 98 articles under 21 headings and the corresponding 10 annexes. this is not a matter of bureaucratizing, commissioner, but of pure bureaucracy! i call on the commission to simplify the applications at least in technical terms. it is possible. young colleagues like anja weisgerber say that this has to be done. the commission should think about it. a technical simplification would be, for example, a search tool on the commission's website, which would allow individuals to download and print only those parts of the single cmo that are relevant to their agricultural products. neither the winegrowers nor the dairy farmers are interested in the special regulations for fruit and vegetables or hemp and vice versa. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. in other words, if there is to be an adjustment in the milk sector and the single market is opened up, all farmers and winegrowers must be careful that their sector does not quickly become subject to change. let me ask two specific questions, madam president. mr commissioner, who will be the observer in future?
i have to say, madam president, you have just turned off the microphone, so i take this opportunity to rephrase my questions in the context of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure. i would like to ask the commission very specifically: who will pay attention in future to existing law when the common organization of the market is opened up and to the fact that there is no leakage in other areas, such as when we talk about milk, that there is also a leakage in wine? the second very specific question is: can the commission create the technical conditions for simplifying the management, via the internet or through a portal that can be accessed for a single market sector, separately for wine and separately for milk, fruit and vegetables? those were my questions. i thank you, madam president.
i am not going to go into detail. i beg your indulgence for being a few minutes late. our former colleague otto von habsburg turned 96 today. he was a member of the european parliament from 1979 to 1999 and was present and exemplary in his work like few others. i just called him - i'm two minutes late now - and i congratulated him on your behalf - i think i was allowed to do that - on his 96th birthday - and of course on his political friends from bavaria.
the next item is the presentation of the court of auditors' annual report for 2007.
president of the european court of auditors. − mr president, it is an honour for me to be able to take part in your debate on the court of auditors’ annual report on the 2007 financial year, which i have already presented to the committee on budgetary control on 10 november. overall, the court’s audit opinion on the accounts is now unqualified – positive, if you wish – but the opinion on underlying transactions is broadly similar to that of last year. on the accounts, the court concludes that they give a fair presentation, in all material respects, of the financial position of the european communities and cash flows at the year end. owing to the improvements that have taken place, the qualifications expressed last year are no longer necessary. as regards the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, the court gives unqualified opinions for revenue, commitments and payments for ‘economic and financial affairs’ and ‘administrative and other expenditure’. as regards ‘administrative and other expenditure’, which accounts for eur 8 billion in 2007, the court acknowledges the decisions and actions taken by the institutions to further improve financial management based on the recommendations made by the court, including those taken by the european parliament. the court will assess their impact in future years. however, for ‘agriculture and natural resources’, ‘cohesion’, ‘research, energy and transport’, ‘external aid, development and enlargement’, and ‘education and citizenship’ the court concludes that payments are still materially affected by errors, although to different degrees. supervisory and control systems covering these areas are judged to be at best only partially effective, although in ‘research’ and, at the level of the commission, for ‘external aid, development and enlargement’, the court notes certain improvements in the supervisory and control systems. for ‘cohesion’ which accounted for eur 42 billion of budgetary expenditure, the court estimates, based on the audit of a representative sample of transactions, that at least 11% of the costs claimed should not have been reimbursed. the most common reasons for errors were ineligible costs, over-declarations of money spent and serious failures to respect procurement rules. for ‘agriculture and natural resources’, where eur 51 billion was spent in 2007, the court found that ‘rural development’ continues to account for a disproportionately large part of the overall error, while the error rate for eagf expenditure is estimated to be slightly below the materiality threshold. but why is this situation persisting, and why are the underlying transactions in a situation broadly similar to that of last year? well, material levels of errors persist because there is a high level of inherent risk associated with many areas of european union spending and weaknesses related to supervision and control. much of the budget, including in the areas under shared management, is disbursed to millions of beneficiaries across the union, often under complex rules and regulations, based on the self-declarations of those who receive the funds. these inherently risky circumstances lead to errors by them and also by those paying the funds. to control these risks, there are several levels of supervision and control: first, at the level of beneficiaries; second, to ensure that the arrangements to check claims are designed and operating effectively, and, finally, supervision by the commission to ensure that all the systems are working as a whole. as most errors occur at the level of the final beneficiaries, they can often only be detected reliably by detailed controls carried out on the spot. such checking is costly, and so, usually, only a small proportion of individual claims are covered. again, the court’s audit work on the 2007 financial year found that member states are not always effective in identifying the shortcomings in the arrangements for checking individual claims. the court also found some weaknesses in the commission’s conformity clearance in agriculture. in many areas of the budget, mechanisms exist for recovering incorrectly made payments from beneficiaries or, where member states have incorrectly administered expenditure schemes, ‘disallowing’ some expenditure, i.e. refusing to finance it from the budget. however, there is not yet reliable information on the impact of corrective actions, and the court concluded that corrective actions cannot yet be considered effective in mitigating errors. all of this said, it is fair to acknowledge that the commission has made significant efforts since 2000 to address the weaknesses in supervision and control, mainly through developing and implementing an internal reform programme and, in 2006, launching an action plan to improve the supervisory and control systems across the union. annual activity reports and declarations, a key part of the reform programme, including those relating to cohesion and agriculture, now present a picture that is more in line with the court’s own assessments, but some reservations still appear to underestimate the problems. concerning its 2006 action plan, in spite of progress noted by the commission, the court finds that it is still too early for their impact on the legality and regularity of underlying transactions to be felt. for example, 2007 was only the first year for which member states were required to produce an annual summary of available audits and declarations. these can, in time, as outlined in the court’s opinion 6/2007, stimulate improved management and control of european union funds. but they do not yet provide a reliable assessment of the functioning and effectiveness of the systems. this is the current situation. but, looking forward, we need to ask what more should be done, and which measures for the future should be considered. the court suggests that any such measures need to take the following considerations into account. first, the benefits from efforts to reduce errors need to be weighed against the costs. second, all participants in the budget process need to recognise that some risk of error is unavoidable. third, the appropriate level of risk for the different individual areas of the budget needs to be agreed on at the political level by the budget/discharge authorities in the name of the citizens. fourth, schemes that cannot be satisfactorily implemented at an acceptable level of cost and with tolerable risk should be reconsidered. finally, due consideration needs to be given to simplification, not least in areas such as rural development and research, because well-designed rules and regulations that are clear to interpret and simple to apply decrease the risk of error and enable streamlined, cost-effect management and control arrangements. the court, therefore, encourages the commission to conclude its analysis on the cost of controls, and on the levels of risk inherent in the different spending areas. the court also recommends the commission continue in its efforts to improve its monitoring and reporting, including working with member states so that effective use of the annual summaries can be made in the annual activity reports, and allowing its follow-up of actions to improve recovery systems. in addition to simplification and making use of the concept of tolerable risk, in its response to the commission communication ‘reforming the budget, changing europe’, the court suggests applying the principles of clarity of objectives, realism, transparency and accountability when designing arrangements for european union spending. the court also encourages the political authorities to explore the scope for recasting expenditure programmes in term of outputs and to critically consider the appropriate level of national, regional and local discretion in managing them. to conclude, while acknowledging that progress is being made, the court underlines that further improvements in the financial management of the european union will depend on the success of ongoing and future measures to reduce risks to an acceptable level and develop cost-effective systems to manage them. in times of financial turbulence and economic instability, the role of the court is even more important and relevant. as the external auditor of the european union, it is our obligation to act as the independent guardian of the financial interests of the citizens of the union. in presenting this report, it is our objective to contribute towards transparency and promote accountability, both of which are considered essential to securing the trust of european union citizens in its institutions that keep the union functioning and give it the direction for the future.
president silva caldeira, i would like to thank you for your report and for the always very constructive cooperation between you, and the court, and the european parliament.
mr president, mr president of the court of auditors, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. after 14 years of declaring reliability, we have a small anniversary next year. we'll have to figure out what to do then. i think we are beginning to make a fool of ourselves, and that is one of the great dangers, that we really become a routine and that no one takes us seriously anymore, that we are not taken seriously in the results that we present. the court of auditors' report is an interesting report and i would ask the court of auditors to continue to act with that clarity. but the question now is: what do we do with member states that have been with us since 1981 and still do not apply eu law consistently? i would like to ask the commission - and this is one of the lessons i draw from this - the more consistent the commission is, the faster we get better results. i would also like to call for this consistent action in the area for which the commission itself is responsible. i'm disappointed that there's been so little progress in direct management. i would have expected the commission to set a good example and show that it is possible and how it can be done. i am particularly interested in the position of the new member states in this report. we don't find much information on that. i can't get some numbers together. your findings on our two new members romania and bulgaria and what, for example, olaf's fraud detection office is finding for 2007 there. olaf has found a fraud and irregularity rate of 76% for both countries in samples from all the funds. 76% is not nothing, and it is time we took a firm stand and helped these two countries to achieve better results, otherwise we would never have progressed. this annual report is the last of the barroso commission in office, the first of the new financial period, and i would like to commend commissioner callas and the barroso commission for what they have done in the field of financial control. it has done more than any other commission. we must accept that despite all these activities, we are not achieving better results or faster results. i have high hopes for the new reporting scheme on readmissions and i hope that next year we are not in this situation again, that we all shrug our shoulders and say, we hope for next year.
commissioner kallas, all the praise from mrs gräßle really means something.
thank you, bill newton dunn. the president will, as always, try to do his best.
mr president, mr president of the european court of auditors, mr vice-president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it has become a tradition to find that the relationship between expenditure at european level and administration at national level is not reliable enough to be given a certificate of reliability. i can remember conversations with the former president of the court of auditors, professor friedmann, who once told me that it was not possible at all, because of the structures, to make a statement of reliability. we should therefore consider how this instrument can be brought to life in such a way that the objective of a declaration of reliability can be achieved if it is justified. we must distinguish a few things. firstly, a budget which is about 95% subsidized is much more prone to fraud than a national, regional or municipal budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this means, of course, that responsibility for the money must be taken on regionally and nationally. i would like to make a brief comment on the third area. we must also learn to distinguish between fraud and waste. these are also things that are always happy to be thrown together. i am also annoyed when eu money is used to fund things that are not absolutely necessary. but that wasn't fraud, that was waste. therefore, those with responsibility for projects, especially in the area of structural policy - the member states - also have a responsibility to ensure that money is not wasted and that only projects that really add value to the region are supported. we should therefore consider switching parts of structural policy to interest-free loans. if member states have to pay back, they are only supporting what they really need.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. what lasts long, finally becomes good. as rapporteur, i am submitting to you today 92 amendments to the revision of the olaf regulation, with a request for your assent. it is the first reform of the office since its inception and concerns the heart of the office, namely the regulation which governs the essential affairs within olaf. the european parliament has now had two years to work on this regulation because olaf is always a difficult area for us too. i am proud today that we have really reached agreement in the european parliament and in the committee on budgetary control, and that we are in agreement. we have not been at loggerheads over details or over the big picture, as the council likes to do. we agree in the reform goal that we need a more efficient office that can better fulfil its important tasks. we are in favour of this office, we want this office and we also want it to be able to fulfil its tasks. i would like to thank all the staff of olaf and also the director-general of olaf for their work and to tell them all that we need this work. i also thank all my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs, the advisers and the secretariat of the committee and, of course, my own staff, who have been very involved in this matter. i thank you all for your broad support of this work, because this broad support will be the success of this parliament, and it is also necessary to be successful. we have worked together to develop the commission's 2006 draft, which is already outdated, and to add some really innovative elements to it, namely the complaints-only procedure examiner. we are thus preventing olaf from being paralysed and blocked by internal disputes. we have been advocating the improvement of the fight against fraud at member state level. dear friends of the council, who once again today are conspicuous by your absence, yes, we want to force you to your happiness and we will force you to your happiness. we want to make fraud prevention a common issue, not a monologue, but a dialogue. we want to have a joint annual meeting once a year and we want to discuss the main issues that affect the fight against fraud and the problems in the member states. we want to improve the legal protection of the persons concerned and guarantee it throughout the olaf investigations. we have assigned all responsibility to olaf and its judges and prosecutors. we want the results of olaf investigations to be made available to the courts and to be improved. we want to ensure that the national law is respected from the outset in the investigation, that the evidence is secured in accordance with the provisions of national law. we are deeply disappointed that some member states, such as luxembourg, have never brought an olaf investigation to court. if you are a luxembourg citizen and you are doing something wrong with eu money, you have a good chance of getting away with it. it is a disaster for the legal consciousness. that is why we attach great importance to the equal treatment of all those concerned by olaf investigations. eu officials must not be treated differently from other citizens, and other citizens must not be treated differently from eu officials. the commission is well advised not to even give the appearance of seeking to do so. i am not going to go into detail on this. i know that you will reject this point as unacceptable and insist on it. that's too bad. parliament will certainly not tempt you to hide the findings of investigations against eu staff under the commission's carpet. we must storm the council now. the council does not want to negotiate this regulation with us, but to consolidate the three legal bases of olaf. that means that we are losing a lot of time with an uncertain outcome, we are losing the chance to do what is possible now and to improve the working conditions of the office, and also to take the office out of the criticism as far as the parties to the proceedings are concerned. dear council, please let us take the steps we can take together now. instead of taking the third step before the first, we should start with the first. as rapporteur, i am prepared to come to an early second reading with the czech presidency. where there is a will, there is a way, and i am sure that we can find a solution together.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. first of all, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur very warmly. she was kneeling down, like i've never seen before. the eu has something very special about olaf: an independent anti-corruption authority. other international organizations are envious of us. it was parliament here mr bösch and mr rübig said it that in 1999, after the bad experience with olaf's predecessor, it insisted on the independence of the new office. it was only for pragmatic reasons that olaf was then - as we remember - attached to or linked to the commission. unfortunately, the memory of the 1999 scandals has faded in some people's minds, and with it, the respect for the necessary independence of an anti-corruption authority. the safeguards in place are no longer sufficient to protect olaf against interference and, above all, against increasing blocking. first of all, let us be clear: olaf is there to fight fraud, it is an authority that ensures that taxpayers' money is used properly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the first is the right of the director-general to intervene in proceedings before the european court of justice. this right ensures that olaf can consistently defend the results of its investigations. the second important guarantee is the right of the supervisory committee to bring the commission or another body before the court of justice if olaf's independence is threatened. this sharp sword is necessary because in the past the warnings of the monitoring committee have been simply ignored. thirdly, a guarantee of independence is also contained in olaf's obligation to bring to justice facts which could constitute a criminal offence. the fourth point is that it also depends on the qualifications and strength of character of the persons responsible. fifthly, i am pleased that the director-general of olaf can be reappointed. so it's all about experience and performance. so we should be careful not to speak ill of olaf. experience with other anti-corruption agencies has shown that this does not help anyone. however, i agree with mr bösch that the council must play its part. there is no french or czech explanation for this they are not even present , so it doesn't work in the end!
i have to say, madam president, the member states, europol and eurojust will now have to deal regularly with olaf's findings. the information provided by the office for combating fraud is thus directly integrated into police work and also into the judicial system, and is mandatory and binding. as a member of the committee on regional development, i very much welcome this reform. olaf must use this newfound strength, because the structural funds are our baby. the number of irregularities has increased dramatically, with the total amount of damages rising from 43 million euros in 1998 to 828 million euros in 2007! this is unacceptable. so it's good that we're improving policing and law enforcement now. but we must also push harder for member states to publish their recipients of funding. we should start with a cause for the abuse. i think that we are not giving enough credit to the regions in the allocation of funds. we must therefore increase the compulsory co-financing of regions and project promoters and we must offer more loan-based programmes. if the beneficiaries of the funds identify more strongly with the sustainable prospect of success of their projects, there will also be less abuse and less work for olaf's fraud department.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i am grateful for all the remarks, which reflect very clearly the controversial nature of this topic. as ms gräßle mentioned, this proposal started in 2004, when times were completely different. i like the expression ‘there is a conflict of interests’. there is a clear institutional conflict of interests between independence and accountability. we must continue to work and have this debate. whatever will happen cannot happen without collaboration between parliament, the council and the commission on how to solve this conflict of interests. as i have said, there are not many, but some, possibilities. most of you clearly support the idea of greater independence, which also means greater accountability. let us find out what is possible. there are certain clear limits within the commission. it is very clear that the directorate general cannot go independently to the courts: it is not possible within the legal framework. a very important point mentioned by many of you was the right to go to the member states. again, it is the commission that takes action in the member states, and there are clear limits to the extent of involvement by the commission which is acceptable to member states. the commission is accountable here and to the public for olaf’s activities, so we would be very happy to have a more independent olaf, which could go independently to the courts and be independently accountable, with a separate discharge. we would welcome all these things and also very clear supervision both of the investigations and of the content of those investigations. at present we do not have a public prosecutor. this is what we await, but while we are waiting we must find some other solutions. let us continue this work. as i said, we will formulate a concept paper on the basis of this discussion. i am looking forward to fruitful debates with the honourable members and the rapporteurs on this issue.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you for the debate. i think the commissioner has now seen that this parliament really cares about the independence of olaf. i also want this debate to be part of the discussions we are having now. i would ask that we start these discussions really gradually, that we exchange views on the amendments and that we do not then adopt a 'no, no, no' attitude. it is the will of parliament. we are in the co-decision process and we will also be asking the european commission to give us this co-decision. we support it, we want you to have influence over olaf, but it has to be in the right place. it must be an influence that supports olaf more than before. we are only partially satisfied, and that is also the result of the work of the european commission. we have many issues on the table that we need to discuss very seriously. i am ready to do so and i look forward to the debate, but i would ask that there be a kind of relaxation exercise for the commission in this debate first, otherwise we would not have to sit down at all if what you have presented here today is cemented and set in stone. we must have a serious discussion about what is possible and then also about what is not. i would like to reject two things: firstly, the fragmented image that some of our colleagues are painting of olaf for their own interests and petty interests. it's a mirage that has nothing to do with reality. this is not the majority view of the house, and i ask olaf to take note of this. we believe that olaf is doing an important job, and that is also the case with mr martin. it was not that there was nothing wrong with this story, but that the austrian prosecutor did not want to use the findings of olaf. we've seen that a lot lately. mr martin, you too can stand by the truth in this house. you too! i would like to say to mr van buitenen that i very much regret that you did not accept the offers of cooperation. we have spoken twice, but i do not think that olaf can be considered in individual cases. there are always things that go wrong in organizations, but there is no true picture when you look at the whole from these individual cases. i tried not to. i would like to expressly acknowledge that. i like you very much, and i've read all your books. but i think there are different ways of working, and in politics you run the risk of not getting the right result if you put the individual cases first. i think we have a good report!
i have to say, madam president, i have only hesitated today to accept the report by neil parish on the creation of a single market organization for a wide range of agricultural products. the commission's aim of simplifying the european agricultural policy is generally to be welcomed. in future, instead of the 21 existing market organizations, for example for fruit, vegetables, milk and wine, there will be only one market organization. however, the handling of this then very complex document must be made as simple as possible. i am therefore very pleased that in yesterday's debate the commission gave an assurance that it would take up my idea and install the technical prerequisites in the european search engine eurlex so that the user can only consult the articles relevant to his agricultural product. the commission has also confirmed that it will adopt one by one the painstakingly negotiated wine market regulation, which has incorporated many of parliament's demands. that is the only reason why i could agree to the report.
in writing. − i fully support the introduction of the blue card. however, with the adoption of the ppe and pse amendments, i fear that europe’s forward-looking strategy on legal migration will soon vanish into thin air. the current text is simply off-putting to most highly qualified workers considering legal immigration to the eu. highly qualified workers will not be encouraged to work on the eu labour market, not least because of the bureaucratic obstacles that were endorsed in the current text.
in writing. the 'blue card' concept in the ewa klamt report, which refers to a proposal by the european commission, is a fatal elite immigration concept. the only positive element is that the blue card concept finally recognizes that immigration to the european union and thus to germany is necessary and right. the eu's blue card scheme aims to pick out a few favoured immigrants, in keeping with the motto: "the good ones in the cradle, the bad ones in the pot". this concept of the elite is unacceptable from a leftist point of view. people must be allowed to immigrate and seek work, they must be given asylum when they are in need. the blue card concept is a deliberate attempt to deprive the countries of origin of highly qualified and often urgently needed skilled workers. this is compounding the problems there and thus deepening global inequality. there is a study by the german institute for labour market and occupational research (iab) which states that the blue card is "mainly about filling vacancies faster and preventing higher wages for domestic skilled workers" in the economy, so that this would have the effect of significantly reducing the wage level in certain sectors of the economy. overall, the blue card concept is part of the wrong eu anti-migration policy. the blue card concept makes people (immigrants) purely economic factors and is a concept of "selected immigration".
in writing. - mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have only agreed to the commission's proposal to integrate the wine gmo into the single gmo for all agricultural products because, in yesterday's debate, the commission agreed, once the proposal has been adopted by the council, to install the technical requirement via the eurlex search engine so that the user can retrieve the individual gmos, for example for wine, milk or fruit and vegetables in their entirety, using only the articles relevant to the product in question. the commission also provided assurances that in future changes will only be made to individual products and will not involve the arbitrary modification of other products. the discussion has made it clear that although there will be only one document in future instead of 21, this one document is as comprehensive as the 21 individual documents. the handling of this complex single market document must be as simple as possible.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. nigeria is one of the largest and most politically and economically important countries in africa, and therefore an important partner for us. we regret to say that the rule of law situation there leaves much to be desired, particularly in the area of justice. in this debate, we have focused on the death penalty. we have a lot of people in nigeria on death row. a quarter of them have been waiting for the procedure to be reopened for five years, 6% for 20 years. these are, of course, unacceptable circumstances and we therefore call on the european commission to help the nigerian authorities on the road to greater rule of law and to make recommendations in this regard. there are also nigerian recommendations from commissions set up by the president that point in the right direction. but i think that needs to be promoted more politically.
a writer. - mr president, i have to say something. the history of the people of israel is a seemingly endless history of expulsions. first, two millennia ago, the expulsion from their original homeland, the dispersion across the world, then over the millennia, repeated expulsions and persecutions in the countries where they had found acceptance, and finally, as the culmination of the crime against humanity of the holocaust, which led to a great wave of israeli returnees returning to the holy land, to the land of their ancestors, with the result that there have been conflicts, expulsions, legal conflicts. the european parliament cannot do anything in such a situation but support, to the extent possible, the declared will of the state of israel and the peace-loving part of the palestinians, whose size i cannot estimate, to reach a peaceful and amicable solution. it is not at all sensible to pick out a single case in an emergency and then decide apodictically that it should be solved in strasbourg on a thursday anyway. there are clear reasons why we nevertheless took part in this resolution. we wanted to be part of this process of discussion, and we believe that human rights are indivisible. of course, we are not indifferent to the fate of the al-kurd family, and we want to deal with that fate. we do not believe that this can be done ex cathedra. so we think this point 4 is apodictic in a way, which doesn't do the job justice. that is why our line is to stand up for human rights, to stand up for the peace process and, of course, to stand up for the kurdish family, but we can only do this in dialogue with both sides and not by taking sides unilaterally. we therefore strongly support this resolution, but we ask for a separate vote on paragraph 4, because this is something that must be decided competently on the spot. we offer our good services for that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just want to thank mr. matsakis for his fairness. all the groups have already made use of oral amendments, which are very important in urgent cases, because mistakes are made quickly and sometimes they have to be corrected. we have done that here, and the social democrats, the greens and everyone else have done it here many times before, and you should not be so offended because you did not have a majority once.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 20 november 2008.
one week ago today, on november 26th, a dramatic series of coordinated terrorist attacks took place in mumbai, india. according to the indian ministry of home affairs, these horrific attacks have killed nearly 190 people, including 22 foreigners. 200 people were injured in these attacks, many of them still in danger of death. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express my outrage at this heinous attack on innocent people and to express our deepest condolences to the families of all those who have died. i would also like to assure those injured in the attacks and their families of our support and our sincere sympathy. the european parliament condemns in the strongest terms this terrorist act and wishes to express its solidarity with india, its people and its authorities in this time of grief. today we are all indians at heart! terrorism is a direct attack on freedom, human rights and democracy. terrorism is an attempt to destroy our values - values which unite us in the european union and in our member states - by blind violence. ladies and gentlemen, you are aware that a delegation from the european parliament's committee on international trade was in mumbai at the very time of the attacks. in the midst of the great sadness over the tragic attacks, we all wish to express our joy and relief today that all the participants in this parliamentary delegation are back in good health, because some of the members of the european parliament delegation were in the hotels affected at the time of the attacks and were in direct danger of their lives. welcome back to brussels, everyone! i would like to welcome in particular to our midst the following: ignasi guardans, who led the delegation, daniel caspary, béla glattfelder, syed kamall, sajjad karim, erika mann, jan tadeusz masiel and mia de vits. it's good to have you all back! (applause from the centre) i am also pleased to have the staff of the european parliament, alberto rodas, christopher ford, levente csaszi and vladymyr dedobbeleer, and the staff of the political groups, arielle rouby and barbara melis, and the interpreters vincent capet from the european parliament and the two freelance interpreters karen twidle and michael hill, back with us, and i would like to welcome you as well. (applause from the centre) we are all relieved that you are generally well, and i wish you a speedy recovery from this terrible experience, both mentally and emotionally. my special thanks and appreciation go to the people of india, to those who have offered you shelter and help in spite of the uncertain situation on the ground. i would also like to thank the consulates of the member states of the european union, which, in accordance with the letter and spirit of the european treaties, have been able to give you all their help in solidarity. i would like to remind you that any citizen of the european union whose country of origin does not have a representation in the country - as in this case in bombay - can contact the consulate of any other eu member state. such situations are the true expression of concrete solidarity between the peoples of the european union. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. her death and the circumstances that led to it are crimes that cannot be tolerated under any circumstances. we must respond to terrorism - wherever it is committed and by whomever - with determined action and solidarity. the european union is called upon to join the international community in combating terrorism in all its forms. we are guided by our principles of the rule of law. the fight against terrorism must be conducted in accordance with the values we defend.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 20 november, in accordance with rules 130 and 131, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: wednesday the gue/ngl group and the green group ask that the vote on the report by mrs de keyser on the participation of the state of israel in community programmes and the vote on the motions for resolutions on the same subject be postponed.
i am not going to go into detail. i am very pleased to inform you that a group of high-ranking religious dignitaries and civil society figures from bulgaria, led by his eminence metropolitan dometian of vidin, have taken their seats in the tribune of honour. our guests are here to take part in a seminar on cultural diversity in europe, which will take place at the european parliament on 4 december. i warmly welcome you all to the european parliament in the final month of the european year of intercultural dialogue. welcome to the european parliament! (applause from the centre)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council of 11 and 12 december 2008.
president of the council. - mr president, dear hans-gert poettering, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, mr president, i would like to join in the words of condolence, emotion and solidarity which you have expressed to the victims of these barbaric acts in bombay, to the indian people, also the victims of these tragedies. i would also like to say to you, for having welcomed mr guardans when he arrived in roissy, that we must also, at european level, draw all the lessons from our cooperation between the various consulates, that i take to heart the words you have said, mr president, and that we must certainly improve coordination in this field at european level, even before a single diplomatic service is implemented. finally, i would like to join in the words of condolence for the spanish victim and express our full solidarity, on behalf of the council, with our spanish friends and the spanish authorities. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, the european council of 11 and 12 december - i did not greet the vice-president of the european commission, dear margot wallström - is extremely important. the agenda is very full, as it concerns the future of the lisbon treaty, europe's response to the international economic and financial situation, the fight against climate change and the energy package. we are in contact with the commission and our irish friends on the treaty of lisbon. there has been cross-party work in ireland in recent days and you were there, mr president, on behalf of the european parliament. you have also been heard by the irish parliament on this matter. i believe that the work of this group leads to three conclusions. the first is that irish members of parliament believe that ireland is at risk of being marginalised in the european union and will suffer in the short to medium term. the second element is that they still see ireland's full participation in the european union as highly desirable. finally, the third element is that a solution must be proposed by ireland so that it can remain at the heart of the european project while providing a response to the concerns that were expressed in the referendum on 12 june. as you know, the irish government has not yet formally taken a position on whether or not it approves of these recommendations and whether or not it intends to implement them and by what method. we have contacts, and there will be more by the end of the week, with the presidency of the council between the prime minister, brian cohen, and president sarkozy. you will understand that i cannot speak for the irish authorities. nevertheless, as regards the presidency of the council, we are genuinely prepared to help our irish friends to understand the demands they may have in the various fields, to see what legal guarantees they need, of course respecting and taking into account that twenty-five parliaments have already ratified this treaty, that we expect a twenty-sixth ratification at the beginning of 2009 and that we wish to give a clear and positive signal as regards the effective entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. this is the whole point of the road map which we will be proposing and discussing at this european council. the economic and financial situation has already been the subject of many debates in this house. so i would like to recall the main points at a time when europe is being hit hard by the very strong economic downturn. we must be able to react to an emergency. we must show unity and the same decisiveness as we did last october when it was a question of finding a coordinated response to the risks of a collapse of the entire financial sector. it is in this spirit that the presidency of the council will conduct the council's work on 11 and 12 december. the president of the commission, mr barroso, will say it better than i do, the commission adopted on 26 november proposals for a european recovery plan, which were discussed on monday by the competitiveness council and the council of ministers for economic and financial affairs. it is a coordinated european response to the economic crisis, which mobilises the community instruments available and allows member states to take the measures best suited to their situation, in close coordination with each other and in compliance with a number of principles. i would like to say that the commission's proposals are in the right direction for the council presidency. we must try to make financial margins available in the community budget, where they are available, for the european social fund, the globalisation adjustment fund and the structural funds. we must also, as the commission proposes, mobilise more european investment bank funds and we count on your parliament to take full part in the mobilisation of the community institutions in response to the crisis. it is primarily the responsibility of the member states to do everything possible to support economic activity next year, taking into account the forecasts made by the commission and other institutions. the commission proposes a joint effort between what can be done at community level and what is done in the member states of up to €200 billion, or 1.5% of community gdp. i know there are some concerns about these figures. it seems to us, as the presidency, that the effort proposed by the commission is in response to the difficulties we are facing and the necessary stimulus. we know that the community authorities cannot do everything, because the instruments are limited, particularly in terms of budgetary resources and powers, and that not everything can be done at community level. the authorities should nevertheless ensure that national recovery actions are coherent and coordinated so that the overall effect on economic recovery is maximised to the benefit of the union. we believe, together with the commission, that we need targeted, sectoral and transitional support measures. these measures must be consistent with the union's long-term priorities and the lisbon strategy and must be implemented swiftly. we believe that priority action must be taken to target the european industrial base and in particular the most structural industries such as the automobile sector, which, as you know, is being seriously affected by the economic downturn. in conjunction with the european investment bank, member states should be allowed to grant grants to their manufacturers to support the development of new technologies, in particular clean cars. we must also, as was stressed at the competitiveness council, obtain new room for manoeuvre to support small and mediumsized enterprises, which are more particularly confronted with this crisis and which are more particularly, today, faced with the threat of credit restrictions in view of the state of the european financial sector today. we are determined that this council will obtain the most ambitious overall plan possible at its meeting on 11 and 12 december. as regards the energy-climate package, mr president, we will have a debate in this house tomorrow. i would like to thank the european parliament again, on behalf of the council, for its extremely constructive attitude in the dialogue we are having on the energy-climate package. our objective is and remains an agreement at first reading by the end of the month. it is not a question of vanity for the french presidency, it is not a question of whether we are putting another success on the presidency's radar, that is not the issue. the point is that europe, i repeat, must be prepared to meet international deadlines, taking into account the 2009 timetable, must be prepared to take the necessary initiatives both in pozńan, at the conference which has just opened, and in copenhagen next november. your rapporteurs know this very well. your assembly has had many and substantial discussions with jean-louis borloo in order to bring this negotiation to a successful conclusion. what we want, the aim of the presidency, is clear: there are objectives, there is coherence in the package proposed by the commission. these objectives and consistency must be safeguarded. we must not depart from the original logic proposed by the european commission. we must take two things into account: the first is to be sufficiently flexible with regard to countries which, given their geographical situation, given their economic development, have to make efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and i am thinking in particular of our friends in central and eastern europe; the second is to find, in the light of the economic crisis, the necessary flexibilities for the industrial sectors which are most affected by these energy consumption problems. we are working very closely with the commission and the other member states on this and we must all be united in order to achieve concrete results and to get this package adopted again by the end of the year. the council is the decisive body. europe is at a crossroads on a number of institutional, economic and energy issues. this will be a difficult council. it is in line with the situation in the european union. that is why we, the council, the commission and parliament, must absolutely do everything in our power to achieve success on these various objectives. but we are well aware of the difficulty of the task.
president of the commission. - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to join you, mr president pöttering, in all that you have said about the mumbai tragedy, and also to say that i share your remarks about the need to put into practice the spirit of solidarity in europe, also the spirit of what genuine european citizenship should be. i think we can all learn from these incidents to put into practice the great ideas of european citizenship and solidarity in europe. in recent months, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has faced a series of major challenges: a conflict in georgia, but also an unprecedented financial crisis and a sudden economic recession. i am fully convinced that the european union has so far taken the right measure of these extraordinary events and has not been undeserving. the european dimension has proved its usefulness and relevance thanks to the joint commitment and close cooperation of our three institutions, and also, i should like to say, thanks to the energy and competence of the french presidency. we have shown the people of europe in particular, and the world community in general, that the european union is up to the task: capable of a rapid and coordinated response, ready to work hand in hand with its partners at the global level. but let us be absolutely clear and honest with each other: the main work remains to be done in the coming weeks. because we are facing many challenges, including three major challenges, which can only be met if the three major european institutions - the parliament, the council and the commission - continue to work together, each playing its full role in pursuing common objectives: first, to take decisive action, and to do so without delay, to put europe on the path to economic recovery, to respond to the crisis in the real economy; secondly, also to demonstrate that europe is empowered to become the world's first low-carbon economy and to show that we are capable of holding the global leadership position in the fight against climate change; and thirdly, to set out a roadmap for the implementation of the lisbon treaty. there are certainly many other areas i could mention, particularly in terms of external relations, and here i would like to say that today we are proud of the commission for having approved a communication which sets quite ambitious objectives for a genuine eastern partnership policy, but for lack of time i will now concentrate on these three challenges which i see as the greatest challenges for the european council in december. let us look first at the european plan for economic recovery. in the debates leading up to the european council last october, there was already talk of a shift in the problems and a shift from the financial crisis to the real economy. a week later, in a communication which we approved, the commission proposed a european framework for action. we have said that we need an economic response to the financial crisis and that we need to do it in a coordinated way. this framework has generally been agreed, since the last informal european council approved it, as did parliament at its meeting last month. but it also provided the basis for the global strategy that was defined at the g20 summit, as it was the basis for discussion. finally, when defining their own policy, the member states followed the approach advocated by this general framework of reference. while setting out the modalities, the european economic recovery plan i presented last week took this coordination to a new level of ambition. i would like to welcome the impetus which parliament has given to the recovery plan, through the debates in the parliamentary committee, in plenary, but also, more particularly, through the debate i had with the conference of presidents, and i thank the president of parliament and the chairmen of the various groups for having contributed to making this debate possible. the implementation of this plan should benefit from the same sustained dialogue as its preparation. by proposing to inject €200 billion to boost our economy, our recovery plan, which includes ten detailed priorities, reflects a level of joint action unprecedented at european level. the challenge was immense, as was the risk of failure, for an ambitious plan had to be drawn up, one that was up to the task. a plan which does not reflect the lowest common denominator, but which also does not hide the very different budgetary and economic positions of the member states, even though all the member states are bound by the common market and, for most of them, by a common currency. so let us admit that it is not an easy task, that it is indeed, from an intellectual and of course also political point of view, quite difficult to find an economic answer for 27 countries with such different starting situations. that is why we have defined a plan that is not one size fits all, but a coordinated plan, building on the instruments we already have in europe, the stability and growth pact and the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, but defining common objectives to be pursued in a coordinated way for economic recovery. now we must translate this plan into reality. the idea of coordination must not just be at the time of agreement but at the time of implementation because the price of inaction is unacceptable. we are witnessing this: job cuts are already a daily occurrence. we cannot wait for the recession to accelerate and degenerate into a serious depression. i think we all perceive a change in mindset, even if sometimes this change in mindset has not yet been fully translated into concrete decisions. everyone is well aware that this is not just a general downturn in the economy. we are in a different situation, it is not a simple economic downturn; we are faced, i repeat, with exceptional circumstances, and it is now that we must act. everyone has to take responsibility. the commission has done so in presenting this plan and will continue to do so in implementing it. i hope that parliament will be vigilant in reminding everyone of his commitments. this recovery plan provides the necessary framework for decisive and ambitious action. i think it is both ambitious and realistic; it is no use making ambitious proposals that have no chance of being approved. but at the same time, we must keep this ambition. this plan demonstrates that the foundations laid by the stability and growth pact and the lisbon strategy have enabled us to deliver a truly european solution. europe has a great opportunity here. i think we have a real test for europe here. not just, and that is enough, in the economic response, but also on the very idea of europe. what is our idea of europe? do we want european answers to european problems and to global economic problems or not? europe can prove that it is able to: provide the coordination needed to ensure that everyone throws his or her full strength into the battle; dprovide, at the appropriate scale, the fiscal stimulus required to have a real impact, while ensuring the medium- and long-term sustainability of public expenditure; to enable the intelligent use of short-term tools to boost long-term competitiveness by striking two strikes at the same time: stimulation must both limit the impact of the crisis on households, workers and businesses in the short term, but it must also prepare the transition to a less energy-intensive economy, while supporting reforms for european competitiveness in the medium and long term; and to place all our action under the sign of the major imperatives of solidarity and social justice, which must first be exercised for the benefit of the most vulnerable in times of crisis. so we have set three clear priorities, three pillars of the strategy, but with, let's say, one underlying priority in all the measures, which is to pay particular attention to the most vulnerable. the time is not now for action confined to a national framework. let's be absolutely clear about this. that is the message i would like to send to the european council, and i know that i can count on this parliament to amplify it. only a european-level solution will have the scope to make a difference, to the greatest benefit of all. parliament's support is essential. i would therefore ask you to consider new proposals, to speed up procedures, to adjust the european budgetary framework. we must be clear on this too. i think it would be absolutely contradictory if we were now asking the member states to make an extra effort in budgetary matters, a budgetary stimulus, and we ourselves, at european level, were not able to use all the appropriations available in the community budget. i think the commission has made the right proposal when it says that all the funds not spent should be used to deepen certain programmes and launch certain european actions, whether for interconnections, innovation, climate-friendly energy or a policy of economic recovery which is also fruitful in the medium term. i think it's the least we can do. but above all, i would ask you to explain to our citizens how the european union protects, not by replacing the action of states, but by reinforcing the effectiveness of the action of states by joining forces to stimulate demand and restore confidence, for the benefit of all our citizens. the second item on the european council agenda is climate change. i know how much time and attention this parliament has devoted to the climate change energy package. you have shown how this is truly one of the major political, economic and "civilizational" projects of our time. when we look back at what will be a historic decision, your support for the objective and your input into how it should be reached will prove to have been invaluable. it is now almost a year since the commission made its proposals. in that time we have seen a major economic downturn. we have heard understandable concerns from industry at a time of intense pressure. but the commitment to the core goal has not wavered: to meet the 20/20/20 targets by 2020; to show the way for a global agreement at copenhagen next year; and to prove that we are serious and we mean business when discussing these issues. of course there is much to be done before the council and parliament reach a final agreement. this is how it should be. these are critical decisions impacting on the life of every european. they deserve to be taken seriously. we must get it right. the european council next week will be key to reaching agreement between the heads of state and government of the 27. but while agreement amongst the 27 is a necessary condition for a deal, it is not in itself sufficient. believe me, nobody knows better than the commission the crucial role parliament plays as a co-legislator. you have proven time and again that your input is indispensable, not only for the democratic legitimacy of european legislation, but also for its effectiveness. your work is critical in building a broad cross-party, cross-national consensus on essential pieces of legislation. we will need you to play this role on the climate and energy package too. a lot has already been achieved in recent trilogues. i am confident we can travel the rest of the way together as well. i really believe we can and should reach a deal at the european council and i welcome the efforts of the very hardworking french presidency of the council, with which the commission is actively cooperating. this is why, right after the european council, i propose to take up its outcome in trialogue with the european parliament in order to iron out remaining differences and translate political agreement into legal texts. i am confident that we will be able to conclude work in good time and show that climate action, energy security and economic growth can and must be pursued in a mutually supportive way. this is the best message we can send ahead of the european elections, but also ahead of the coming into office of the next united states president, and in view of copenhagen. i give my commitment that the european commission will work tirelessly with you to make this possible. finally, there will undoubtedly be some who would argue that, in the current situation, discussing the lisbon treaty is a distraction. they would be wrong. the european union today is proving itself more essential than ever in terms of promoting the economic and social well-being of its citizens. giving it the tools to do this task more efficiently, more democratically, is not a distraction. it is an imperative. the crises we have been experiencing have all underlined this need. i believe that the european union has shown a lot of maturity in responding to the 'no' vote in ireland, by respecting the outcome, and by giving the irish authorities time to digest and analyse, time to work out how to address this situation. above all, europe has shown its determination to keep working towards the prize of the new treaty. member states have continued to ratify. the commission, like this parliament, has continued to put the case for the treaty. and we have worked together with ireland not against it to find the right way forward. there remains an urgency to see the treaty in force. there remains a need to respect the decisions of the 25 national parliaments which have ratified. and the overriding goal of the european council must be to set out a credible way forward which will allow ireland to ratify as well. by the end of next week, we need to have a road map that leads us out of this impasse. 2008 will go down in the history books as a year when the european union faced some of its toughest tests. but also, i believe, when it showed itself determined enough, decisive enough, and bold enough to meet the challenge. let us use the next few weeks to leave a legacy of a stronger, more ambitious european union for the future. (applause) i would like to thank you.
now, if i were to say that you are always exemplary, that might be construed as bias.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. a week before the european parliament delegation departs for poznań, it is time to assess whether what the commission is now repeatedly announcing is really true, namely that the response to the crisis in the real economy and the crisis in the financial markets will be linked to an ambitious climate change strategy. i would like to say again that everything the commission has said so far on this subject is being refuted in the current negotiations on the climate package. the signal given by the car dealership closure at the beginning of the week is that europe has promised to take ambitious action to protect the climate and save the world. europe wants to change everything, but not its cars. i think that's a very poor signal we've been sending out here. we can move on to emissions trading. we know that emissions trading is the most important instrument of european climate policy, that auctioning is the key to its operation. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the efficiency of the energy sector, and it is hoped that the council will be able to take them up in the next few months. i think it's a very poor announcement, just a week before we go to poznań. the ambitious co2 reduction efforts should be at least half in developing countries, not in europe itself. but we do not want to finance these measures in the developing countries either. i would like to ask you, mr barroso, in all seriousness, to finally formulate the new green deal, which mr dimas also always speaks of so prominently. i would also like to say that i believe that the public's acceptance of the european union would be much greater and would grow if the mistakes of the european commission's old economic policies, mistakes also made with regard to the financial markets, were taken into account, if you admitted your misjudgments of just a year ago. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i would really like to make the same plea here as i did in strasbourg two weeks ago: be honest about the question! is there a new green deal or do you want to continue the strategies of the last decade?
i have to say, madam president, unlike mr kirkhope, i would like to say that the madrid electoral manifesto is a document of hope and a signal that there are ways out of the crisis, for which we are working with all our might. parliament supported the french presidency's efforts to achieve final clarity on the ratification of the lisbon treaty at the summit next week. we cannot go into the european elections with the uncertainty of whether this treaty will come into force or not. it would be an invitation to all those who are opposed to europe to use these elections as a showcase for the pros and cons of a treaty which has already been ratified by 25 countries. that is why afco has drawn up a resolution calling for every effort to be made to ratify it, perhaps before the elections. we must make the summit clear once and for all. we cannot put off this until next year. madam vice-president, there will be a second referendum in ireland. our statement, communication in partnership, is a test case for whether we can inform the public. we must not leave this to the enemies of europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the difficulties encountered in evacuating european citizens from bombay have shown the need for closer coordination in the european union on security and defence matters. cooperation with the council has developed very well in recent months. the cooperation with the french presidency and the council has been very fruitful. the central event was certainly the crisis in georgia. the council presidency acted quickly in this respect. he negotiated the ceasefire, he made sure that the observers arrived in georgia on time, and the european union was at the centre of the action. however, on the same occasion, shortcomings were also noted. we have seen that our brussels crisis management instruments have really reached the limit of their capacity on this occasion. it is clear that we must continue to improve the european union's capacity for preventive analysis on the one hand and its crisis management tools on the other. as we know, the european union is in the process of revising its security strategy by the end of this year. this security strategy has proven effective. the principles must be upheld. there are certain points which need to be changed and adapted to the new realities. but even more important than the adaptation of the security strategy is the implementation of this security strategy. that is why we in the european parliament are calling for the drawing up of a white paper on security and defence. the french white paper on this subject may serve as a model. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank the french presidency for having identified and resolved many problems in difficult times over the past few months. but we know that the ability to act also depends very much on the treaty of lisbon. we see here that there is a report from both irish parliaments. you, mr president, have said that this is a very responsible, far-sighted and intelligent report, which addresses the concerns but also points out ways in which we europeans can solve this problem together. i would like to invite the french presidency to take up this matter and to develop a road map which will allow the irish positions to be taken into account and taken seriously, and concerns which have nothing to do with the treaty, such as the question of the commissioners, to be taken up, but also the ways out of the democratic deficit which they themselves want to remedy by improving relations between parliament and the government in ireland. on this basis we have a chance of ratifying this treaty if we follow the path that the irish parliament has clearly indicated. i think we should take this path to strengthen our irish friends, and we should also have a timetable in mind, so that we do not fall behind in the uk elections. the financial crisis clearly shows that more and more citizens are realising that europe is indispensable, as the french presidency of the council has shown in georgia and in the financial crisis.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to begin by supporting mr rasmussen's assessment that we are talking about a completely new relationship between the state and the market in the financial world as a whole. i think we're in agreement on that. i would also say that mr mccreevy's role should be smaller than it has been so far and that he should not be delayed at this stage. what we can learn from the financial market crash is what happens when the government retreats too far and doesn't dare to make the rules it knows are right. i would like to link the current debate on a new green deal and the european recovery plan once again. i think there are still too many hesitations in the european council and the european commission, who assume that sustainability strategies or even aggressive climate action would be at the expense of jobs. and the same forces that are holding that back are, in our view, holding back - we greens are also thinking about jobs - the development of sustainable production methods and sustainable economic systems and sustainable new products, and they are building our way out of europe into the future markets of the world. i think that's very dangerous, and i think that the weak automotive regulation that we're doing right now is a very bad sign of how anxious we are. the recovery plan is a little keynesian, a little eco, but really, at the bottom, it's still the same old cake. i think that it is not enough for europe to change just a little bit. perhaps more support for coordination can be gained by formulating the strategies more consistently. the review of the entire eu budget early next year would provide the commission with an opportunity to approach the various major crises we face in a systematic and coherent way.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission! the aim of agreements such as the upgrade of israel is to reassure the parties to the conflict that they are in a reasonable process which guarantees their internal stability and gives them the assurance of future cooperation and existence. we have lost this chance to provide such an assurance today. we have lost them and i think that has fuelled the cycle. i am also critical of israel on many issues, and particularly on the question of settlement policy. but when i hear today that the decisive reason is the situation in gaza, i am very surprised, especially since only half or a quarter of the arguments are always made. we must see that if you use this argument, you will find an alibi again in a quarter of a year and then you will find an alibi again to prevent the decision from being made. because if i remember correctly, israel has left gaza. if i remember correctly, hamas, in a violent coup, in violation of all rights, overthrew the elected authorities of president abbas and destroyed the government. if i remember correctly, it is precisely the conditions created by hamas that are decisive for the situation in gaza. if i remember correctly, israeli cities are regularly fired upon from gaza. and if this is not relevant in such a debate and there is a one-sided blame on israel, it does not seem to me that this is the way in which european politics can gain confidence in jerusalem. that is why i think we have made a big mistake today. we will only be a force for peace in the region if we stick completely to the truth and do not make politics alone. i am convinced that this policy will not help president abbas either, but that it will help further the radicalization that has already been so successful in gaza. that is why i think today's decision was a mistake.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not guns are for killing. these arms exports we're talking about are there to kill other people enemies . that's always left out of this debate. for ten years there has been a debate on whether this code of conduct is legally binding. i was hoping, like my colleagues, to get the information today: yes, it's time. but it is obvious that it is not yet so! i have now received information that the directive on facilitating the transfer and supply of arms within the eu clearly contains an opt-out, so that it is obvious that there is a desire to have a legal obligation for arms exports. you can't do that! the dual-use items must also be included. i want to make it clear again: the european union is supplying arms - the european union is now the world's largest arms exporter - and if these arms are supplied, they will be used at some point. and when they are used, crocodile tears are shed. we need this legally binding code of conduct! i hope that it will be possible to do so until the end of the french presidency.
i have to say, madam president, we have destroyed agriculture in the third world with billions in export subsidies, we have undermined food security in those countries. if we think we can do this with a billion dollars, it's ridiculous! i am in favour of paying that one billion - i don't want to be misunderstood - but the 850 million hungry people were not caused by the fact that we had high food prices, but by our export subsidies that have pushed prices in those countries to such a low level that farming is no longer worthwhile. the subsistence economy, self-management, self-sufficiency have been destroyed! if we spend this billion in this logic, it doesn't help, it helps more destruction. so we must be very careful about how we give it. i am in favour of strengthening food security in these countries in the long term. that means we have to withdraw from these markets with export dumping.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 4 december at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on the report by josé manuel garcía-margallo y marfil, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive amending council directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax to combat tax fraud in intra-community transactions (com (2008) 0147 c6-0154/2008 2008/0058 cns)) (a6-0448/2008), the report by josé manuel garcía-margallo y marfil, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1798/2003 to combat tax fraud in intra-community transactions (com (2008) 0147 c0156/2008 c0156/2008 cns) and the report by berthe berthe, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the special report of the european court of auditors on cooperation in the field of public procurement (a7-0272/2008/c02-06-06-08).
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals. some 2.25% of the eu's gross national product, or in figures some 200 billion euros a year - as my colleague staes has already said - is lost through vat evasion, avoidance and fraud. these are the facts on which the report by mr staes is rightly based. the answers to five written questions on this subject which i have put to the council and the commission - and i regret that the council is so poorly represented - show, among other things, that vat arrears in germany alone in 2005 amounted to eur 17 billion and in the united kingdom to eur 18 billion. these figures make it clear to everyone that this is a serious damage to the economies and that it must be stopped as soon as possible. but how can this be done? the court of auditors has so far given the same answer, which it has dealt with in a special report: through the cooperation of the competent national administrative authorities. but that's exactly what hasn't worked in the last few years! once again, europeans find themselves in a situation where they are pursuing a well-intentioned objective but are doing the math without the host. the host country in this case is the member state which fails to put a stop to crossborder vat fraud by administrative measures. for example, there are large unexplained discrepancies between the number of requests for information received and the number of requests for information answered. the discrepancies in the statistics on intra-community trade, which are estimated to have reached a staggering 77 billion euro in 2007, which were communicated by the commission in response to my written request of 6 may this year, may also be an indication of vat fraud. i would like to take this opportunity to ask the commission when the results of the study will be presented to us.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 4 december 2008 at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the request for an oral answer to the commission on the pre-registration of phase-in substances under the reach regulation (o-0131/2008) (b6-0490/2008).
the debate is closed.
- the next item is the brief presentation of the report by zita gurmai, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the situation of women in the balkans (2008/2119 (ini)) - (a6-0435/2008).
the point is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 4 december 2008, at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the socialist group has tabled a number of amendments. the commission is not as you can see, the council representative is absent. but the main point of today's debate is that we want a report on the trilogue. the commission, which has now spoken at length, has already completed its work in the trilogue, at least for the time being to a large extent. the negotiations are being conducted at priority level between the council and parliament. many colleagues who are not taking part in these negotiations as rapporteurs or in any other capacity would have the opportunity to be here in the plenary this morning - which is why the conference of presidents wanted to hear this debate - to hear the state of play and to discuss it. i understand the plane from paris just landed. mr. borloo is on his way here. i am of the opinion that we should suspend the debate until mr borloo is here, then hear the council and then continue the discussion. i don't want this to be a show. i want to hear the state of play from the council this morning. the council wants parliament to deal with a whole package by the end of december in an extraordinary procedure. that is all right, but then please have him here on time to present his views to parliament. after that, we can discuss.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. i am speaking on behalf of the rules of procedure and i ask that i be allowed to speak. i would ask that the sitting be adjourned until mr borloo arrives, not to change the agenda, but to adjourn the sitting for a short time until mr borloo is present. i'm proposing that.
the socialist group will be voting in favour of the report. the commission is not it is not my job to go into the details of the legislation we are discussing. i want to try to describe for our group a larger framework within which we must place this debate on the climate package. i am glad that the president-in-office has arrived so that i can listen attentively to what he has to say. he was right to say that climate change is a central challenge for all of us: for the council of heads of state and government, for the european parliament and for the commission. we've heard a lot of big titles, 20% 20% 20%. the only thing that happens in this parliament is the hard work of detail. the headlines are produced by the heads of state or government. the hard work of detail is here in the european parliament. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the success of this is due to parliament. so it is not sarkozy but sacconi who must be the headline in this legislative procedure which we have brought to a first conclusion. (applause from the centre) that is why i am sticking to this procedure, which has come to a conclusion. this is not the normal procedure. the european parliament has declared itself ready to go on an extraordinary journey with the council and the commission. it is not a question of the commission being too strict in its approach to the problem of the budget. but what we are doing here is to override the normal parliamentary procedure in six different legislative procedures. this means that a large number of members of this house cannot take part in the detailed discussions, but must limit their entire parliamentary participation to being able to say yes or no to the result of the negotiations in the end, in a kind of ratification procedure. this is a serious task for the parliamentary right. i'm a little surprised that those who usually talk about transparency and participation, are coolly smiling over this circumstance. but in certain situations, you have to decide whether it is justified in view of the challenge you face. our group has discussed this extensively. we said, yes, the challenge is so great that this time you have to go this way. mr president-in-office, you are right, and we are also convinced that this is the challenge of the century. we're not going to solve all the climate challenges of this century now. only if we don't solve the challenges we have now, will we fail in the course of this century. that is the crucial point, which is why we said we wanted to conclude this procedure now. i do not think it was the council's best decision to leave the final decision to the heads of state or government. the european council of heads of state or government is based on the principle of unanimity. you have already indicated that president sarkozy will have to negotiate separately with eight or nine countries. good luck with that. we hope it will be successful. but parliament has not drawn up a blank cheque using the procedure we have used here. it is not that this parliament is prepared to accept every single wish of every single member state, which has yet to be worked out, and then finally accept it. in an informal trilogy, everything has to be right in the end. the council's common position, parliament's common position and the commission's common position. we cannot go into detail here and then say to the european council: 'yes, but i have something to do here and i have something to demand there', and then say to parliament: 'freak or die!' that certainly won't be the case. i therefore recommend to mr borloo and to mr sarkozy, president of the council, that they come up with a solution that is acceptable to all. that is why we cannot block the european council, even in the separate negotiations. we have made all the preparations so that we can vote next week. the european parliament has declared itself ready to sign this package later this year if possible. he believes that this will be a great triumph for mr sarkozy. i therefore say today that if it succeeds, it is first and foremost the result of the hard work of the members of the european parliament. we are proud of that, and if things go well, so is the presidency. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. some of us still look tired from negotiating until 2:00 a.m. tonight. we want a global agreement, but that requires, of course, all the major players to play their part: china, india, and above all the united states. without this involvement, even with europe's best efforts, it will not be possible to combat climate change. we are behind the 2020 targets, but we have a responsibility not only for the climate, but also for preserving jobs and the competitiveness of our economy. that is the dilemma we are in, and i can only say that the commission's proposals were not good enough to be accepted. we are debating and deliberating so intensely now because the commission's proposals, contrary to public statements, have not sufficiently taken account of these aspects. i therefore believe that mr schulz is right in saying that we must respect our rights of participation and cannot write a blank cheque. but the interim results, for example in the car sector, where we have found a responsible compromise which does not suit the industry but which does provide sufficient transitional periods, we can support them, even if some greens protest or a united lobby of different interests tries to make this workable compromise obsolete. renewable energy is about taking advantage of all the possibilities, but not excluding technological innovation in the first place. and the biggest piece of it, emissions trading, is to avoid job displacement. the scheme must be simple, affordable for consumers and industry, and prevent distortions of competition between member states. that's our goal. if that is met, then we can agree to the package.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the question is, in fact, whether environmental protection, climate protection and economic and industrial policy are compatible. i feel that we have really slipped backwards in the debate, and i am constantly confronted with the fact that you have to take industry and the economy into account in difficult times, that you cannot ask them to do anything, because otherwise you cannot move forward. mr langen, who do you think is responsible for the fact that things are not going well in the car industry at all? nowhere in the world! there's a sales crisis everywhere. i think it is the result of mismanagement, of wrong industrial policies, but certainly not the result of having made a forward-looking environmental policy with the car industry. (applause from the centre) where are the efficient cars that europeans can bring to the markets of the future in large numbers? now i read that they need research funds from europe to make technological advances. but the companies have the technology for eco-friendly cars! we need to set the framework so that these environmentally friendly cars can finally be bought. what are we doing? we are again delaying a regulation which we considered reasonable back in 1995. in 1995 it was discussed: 120 grams for 2012! what we are now allowing with this regulation - and this is something that is both heartening and astonishing - is that the average emissions of the european car fleet in 2012 will be higher than they are today. (calling) i am not saying that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. (applause from the centre) i believe that we really have to decide in this european parliament whether we can change our economic system, which is based on overconsumption, on 'too much' and on 'growing bigger', or not. at the heart of the financial crisis and the climate crisis, the poverty in the world is due to our overconsumption and the excessive greed of the industrialized countries. if we cannot change that, mr langen, we will look poor. in this century, no one will remember the phase of climate policy or crisis policy in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ccs storage is just one small wheel in the big picture of the climate package. but even small wheels and small wheels have their meaning. that is why it is so important that the european union and we pave the way for construction and demonstration projects, because this can lead to a whole new industry, a transition technology for storing co2, without minimizing the great effort elsewhere. we have three large demonstration projects in the world with different goals, namely to accelerate oil and gas extraction. we need our european demonstration plants, because we are responsible for the deposits, for the technology, but also for the regulatory framework for the period after the closure of the deposits, which we must then put into operation at european level. we have problems with funding, so it is said. i don't think it should be a real problem. we are giving - and the figure is - 1.8 billion euros in the financial umbrella for companies, for banks and for injection into firms. we have $1.8 trillion, and we don't have $10 billion or $5 billion to try out new technologies that could make a difference globally. i just came from china. we've talked about ccs technology here, china in the future with 60% coal power. south africa, america, the united states and russia all need these technologies, and we in europe are not able to get these technologies on the road. i think that the council and we should make a move to get funding through whatever instrument, ets and others, so that we can put a global signal in this technology.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu's climate policy is about to undergo its reality check. the economic performance in europe is declining and we are here to consider how we can put additional barriers in the way of our industry. emissions trading is supposed to reduce emissions, but it will increase costs. this increases the risk of jobs being exported. the rest of the world is watching us. china will have to wait and see, and then steel will be produced there and not in europe. it is not without reason that 11 000 steel workers demonstrated in brussels this week to save their jobs. i very much welcome what mr swoboda has just said on the subject of the benchmarking system, but the social democrats' insight on this point came very late. i am convinced that we are vastly overestimating ourselves if we believe that we can significantly influence the world's climate through policy action. in the 21st century, the societies that will thrive will be those that intelligently answer two questions: where does our energy come from, and how do we use it efficiently? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think the climate package is on the right track. i would like to use my two minutes today to speak on the subject of emissions trading, because that is what i care about most. allow me to take a look across the great pond to america. what are the americans doing? barack obama has unveiled his plan for new energy for america. when you read it, you rejoice because the objectives it sets out are the same as ours. reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, increasing the share of renewable energy, reducing energy consumption, reducing oil consumption, introducing one million plug-in hybrid vehicles by 2015. these are all projects, objectives, which are familiar to us and which can only be supported. but the big question is, how do the americans do it? that is the big difference with what we do in europe. the americans are investing heavily in their industry. the american government is putting together a stimulus program, $500 to $700 billion, and says that a lot of that money will go into the development of renewable energy and green technology. if you look at the details of the american electoral programme, it talks about billions of dollars in support for industry, to really bring industry up to the level of the world market. what are we gonna do? if i look at emissions trading, we're taxing our industry with 70 billion euros a year. 70 billion euros of additional burdens for our industry. i think the question is justified: how can we keep our domestic industry competitive and prevent our jobs from leaving europe? i am only in favour of a regulation in the climate package which ensures that we do not have a carbon leakage and that our domestic industry is also preserved in europe. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commission and the council for presenting this package. i believe that no single figure, no target, no percentage should be changed in this package. but, mr president-in-office, i do not understand why we are under such enormous pressure. but i don't have time to answer that at two minutes today. i'd like to address a point you're familiar with: i would like to draw the attention of the european union to the question whether we should really start this high-resolution auctioning in 2013 immediately, when we know very well that our american friends and our friends in india and china will not have such instruments by then. i propose that these arrangements be made in the kyoto ii protocol or in copenhagen and that we in europe start this auctioning on the day when the copenhagen or kyoto protocol is adopted. please don't take away from the companies the capital they can't get from the banks at the moment! we need that capital to fill the cap. we want that explicitly, and we want it in 2012. i think it is wrong that we are sending european industry to the world market in leather shoes, and our american friends we meet in sneakers in india. it's not fair, it can't happen like this. they must all have similar shoes. i am passionate about this, to achieve the goals. i am perfectly aware that we need money to have compensation outside europe in latin american countries. that is not disputed at all. but we should do it in such a way that the tools for emissions trading are such that the industry has a level playing field. i will support this without changing a single parameter. i wanted to repeat that because there are people in this house who suggest that we were trying to change the objectives. we don't want that, stavros dimas. we don't want to be in the middle of this.
i am not going to go into detail. it is a great honor and joy to have his holiness on the 14th. the european parliament is pleased to welcome the dalai lama to the plenary of the european parliament today. we look forward to your thoughts on the european year of intercultural dialogue and the importance of this dialogue for peace and international understanding, which you will share with us today in the european parliament's plenary. in the course of 2008, we have already had the honour of welcoming representatives of the christian, jewish and islamic religions, and today we have the opportunity to hear from a leading representative of buddhism. your holiness, our thoughts in these days are especially with the victims of the bloody attacks in mumbai and with the people of india, the country in which you live in exile. it is in times of such great challenges that religious leaders who speak out for dialogue, peace and reconciliation, such as yourself, have a vital contribution to make to our social life. the european parliament has always sought to raise its voice in defence of human rights and dignity. culture and freedom of religion are directly linked to the identity of people and are therefore an inseparable part of human dignity. in this context, the european parliament has repeatedly sought to draw attention to the human rights of the tibetan people. when you, your holiness, gave a speech to the european parliament in strasbourg in 1988, you spoke of a five-point peace plan for tibet. you visited us in 2001 and 2006. during this period, the european parliament adopted several resolutions calling on the chinese government to engage in direct and meaningful dialogue and to respect the cultural and religious identity and human rights of the tibetan people. i would like to emphasize once again on behalf of the european parliament: the european parliament is committed to the territorial integrity of china, which includes tibet. but we will always defend the right of the tibetan people to live out their cultural and religious identity. we will always defend this right! (applause from the centre) what has happened in lhasa and other cities since 10 march is proof of the urgent need for sincere dialogue to work towards a mutually acceptable and viable solution, respecting the culture, religion and identity of tibet. for these reasons, we are deeply concerned that the talks between your special envoy and the chinese authorities, which were launched in 2002, have so far produced no results. we express our strong expectation that future talks will produce the desired results. china is a major nation and an important partner of the european union. in our dialogue with china, we have a duty to express openly and sincerely our support for our shared values of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and freedom of expression, which are based on the fundamental principle of human dignity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i also expressed these principles yesterday in a conversation with the chinese representative to the european union. as you, your holiness, said yourself a few years ago, each of us must learn to work not only for ourselves, our families or our nation, but for the good of all humanity. you, your holiness, are a great advocate of dialogue. your non-violent stance provides an outstanding example of committed, peaceful commitment to a worthy cause, and we are honoured that you are speaking before the european parliament today. it is a great pleasure to ask you to speak to us now. (applause from the centre)
your excellency, president pöttering, honourable members of parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour to speak before you today and i thank you for your invitation. on the last occasion i was here, i gave my speech in tibetan and then read the english translation. i felt that wasted time, so today my written statement has already been circulated. i am not going to repeat what is in there. in fact there are some words i cannot pronounce properly so it is better not to read it! the main points i have already mentioned in my written statement, and i do not want to repeat these things. i am just one human being out of 6 billion human beings. on that level, i believe that every human being wants a happy, successful life; all of us, irrespective of our colour, nationality, religious faith or social status, we all want and all have the right to have a happy life, a successful life. as a human being i believe – and for a number of years, many of my friends have agreed with my views and feelings – that in modern times there is too much emphasis on the importance of material values. we have somehow neglected our inner values. that is why, in spite of materially being highly developed, i have noticed there are still a lot of people – even billionaires – who are very rich but are unhappy on a personal level. so one of the most important factors for happiness or joyfulness is very much to do with peace of mind, a calm mind. too much stress, too much suspicion, too much ambition and greed i also think are factors which destroy our inner peace. so therefore, if we wish to achieve a happy life, there is no point in neglecting our inner values. these inner values are not necessarily what we bring from religious teaching, but i feel they are a biological factor we are already equipped with: warm-heartedness or a sense of responsibility, a sense of community. the biological factor is there because we are social animals. that is what i usually call ‘secular ethics’ and it is the basis of our happy life, our inner peace. the ways i generally emphasise to promote that are secular ways: the secular method means using our common sense and common experience and the latest scientific findings. even for our physical well-being, peace of mind is very essential. i should like to illustrate this by a small experience of my own. i recently underwent surgery to remove my gall bladder. so, in contrast to my previous visit here, i have the same face but one organ is now missing! but, since then i am ok, quite fit! (laughter) seriously, during surgery and also after surgery there were some quite serious complications. usually gall bladder removal takes 15 to 20 minutes, but in my case it took three hours because of complications. however, after the surgery, within one week i had fully recovered. so the doctors were a little bit surprised. i told them that i had nothing special. no miracle power. no healing power. if i had miracle powers or healing power, i would not have needed surgery in the first place. the very fact that i underwent surgery means that i have no such miracle power, does it not? but i really think that peace of mind is one factor in a speedy recovery. so this is my number one commitment, the promotion of human values. number two is the promotion of religious harmony. in that respect – i mean peace of mind – all the major religions have the message of how to develop inner peace. particularly when we are passing through difficult situations or hopelessness, faith provides us with inner strength and hope. so all the major religious traditions basically fall into two categories: one is theistic religion, the other is non-theistic religion. buddhism belongs to the non-theistic religions. buddhism and jainism both form part of the indian tradition. these different philosophies, different ways of approach, ultimately have the same message, the same practice, the practice of love, compassion, forgiveness, contentment and self-discipline. so therefore all the major religious traditions have the same potential but they come from different locations, and different peoples with different mental dispositions. we need different ways of approach. theistic philosophy and non-theistic philosophy have developed: that does not matter. these philosophies matter, but the important thing is the real purpose, the real message. so in that respect, all religious traditions carry the same message, the same practice and the same effect. so harmony among the different religious traditions is quite possible. and yet now – not only in past history, but even today – there are still conflicts happening in the name of religion. so therefore we need a special effort for the promotion of religious harmony. this may be irrelevant, but i see that here among the parliament members there are many women. one of my beliefs (and i am not saying this just to appease the women here!) is that in human history, in the earliest periods, there was no concept of leaders. all family members worked together, all the community members worked together, hunting or collecting fruits or things like that, and they shared equally. eventually the population increased. then stealing, bullying and that sort of thing happened. so then the concept of leadership arose. at that time the brain was not very important. the important thing was physical strength, like other animals. this, i think, is why male dominance developed. then eventually through education, brain development took place and the brain became more important than physical strength. so then male and female had more or less equal weight. and so it is that many members here are female. some are rather beautiful! (laughter and applause)so, as i mentioned earlier, in our century, in our time, we need to promote human compassion, human love, warm-heartedness. in that respect, i think because of biological factors, females have more feelings of sensitivity about others’ pain. do you agree? (cries of ‘yes!’) i think i should ask the men, not the women. i have not much time but i will tell one short story. once during a long, eight- or nine-hour flight from india to another country, a night flight, i noticed one couple with two young children, one i think six or seven years old, one very small. so the whole night that young one really created trouble for his parents. at the beginning the father also took care of that young boy or girl. then after two or three hours the father just slept. but all night the mother was always paying attention to those naughty children. always she paid them the fullest care, and then next morning i noticed the mother’s eyes were red. this is one example. the female has more sensitivity to other people’s pain. so therefore at this time we need not only smart brains and ideas but also we need warm-heartedness. in such periods, i feel, women have a special role. therefore i am very happy to see many women here. this is something i have said on many occasions, and i just wanted to share this now. now to the tibetan issue. (applause) basically, some chinese officials consider our approach to be that of a separatist movement, but it is not. that is totally wrong. everybody knows that we are seeking genuine autonomy within the people’s republic of china, in our own interest. tibet is materially backward – though of course it is spiritually advanced – so by now every tibetan wants a modernised tibet. therefore, as far as material development is concerned, it is in our own interest to remain within the big nation – the people’s republic of china. so firstly i want to make it very clear that our approach is not a separatist movement. certain rights which we have requested from the chinese officials are actually already guaranteed or mentioned in their constitution, as well as certain rights of minorities. another point i want to make clear to our supporters is that, when you are showing your support, your concern about the tibet question, some chinese feel this is something against china. that is totally wrong. actually we are trying to make a contribution regarding the promotion of a harmonious society, stability, unity. obviously it is a matter of common sense, of common experience: how can unity and harmony develop under fear, under guns? it is illogical. genuine harmony, unity, only come through trust, through mutual respect. let me take one example. since we are not seeking independence and we adhere strictly to non-violent principles, some of our friends from xinjiang, who are also fighting for their rights, now think our approach is more effective. many years ago i met some xinjiang people – i cannot remember the individual names – they really used to fight for independence and even if necessary used violence. that is their view. then i told these people: as far as we tibetans are concerned, we are not seeking separation and also follow a strictly non-violent way. eventually more xinjiang people now agree that our approach is realistic and the best approach. our approach actually gave more encouragement to those people who once took the violent way and therefore disapproved of us. we are helping to build a healthy, harmonious society. so we, and our supporters, are not against the chinese, china or the chinese government. actually we are helping them. obviously there are many drawbacks in totalitarian regimes: it is a closed society, there is no freedom of speech, no freedom of the press. so difficulties are bound to occur. there is a tibetan saying: ‘if you are a true close friend, then make clear the faults of your friend’. so for the european union, naturally, it is very important to keep close relations with the people’s republic of china; but at the same time you should make clear those drawbacks, those mistakes. now i have not much time. yesterday i met some tibetan support groups to which meps belong. they told me they were going to fast for 24 hours. if some of those people are going to practise fasting, that is very good. i very much appreciate that. so i immediately responded, we are also going to fast. in my case, as a buddhist monk, after lunch i have no more meals. so i thought that a better practical way would be for my fasting to start after my breakfast. so this morning i started my fasting after my breakfast. as a buddhist monk, breakfast is something very sacred because i always eat when i wake up, as i always feel hungry. therefore i have had my breakfast now, and until tomorrow breakfast i am fasting and sharing with your determination. thank you very much. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
your holiness, you are a personality of dialogue. i have 29 years’ experience in the european parliament, but i have never experienced a situation where the speaker taking the floor had a dialogue with the parliament. if anybody in the world – including the chinese government – has any doubt that you are a personality of dialogue, your speech today was the proof that you are a personality of dialogue. (loud and sustained applause) in the name of the european parliament, i have the honour of thanking you for your presence today and i am thankful that you are healthy again. you have proved that you are healthy again after your operation, but we never thought that you would share all your experiences with us. this shows your confidence in the members of the european parliament. you gave us a clear political message and you gave us a clear human message. i want to thank you, in the name of the european parliament for these messages, and we thank you for your excellent humour. i think it is now our duty, dear colleagues, to help his holiness the 14th dalai lama to ensure that his people, the tibetan people, have a good future and can live within their culture and their religion. your holiness, the european parliament is with you. thank you for your presence and thank you for your speech. (loud and sustained applause)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency of the council and the commission! the european parliament has always been very courageous in the last few years in taking its own rights into account. we have not been persuaded when we invited the dalai lama, when we decided on the sakharov prize or when we decided on the question of participation in the olympic games. i am therefore very concerned that we are not exercising our rights sufficiently in a matter of such importance, which today seems to be of limited interest and which some colleagues have described as the question of the century. i ask the presidency of the council and the leadership of parliament to ensure that we do not just talk about better regulation, but that we actually have the means to monitor and review texts. for example, at the moment, emissions trading is not negotiated on the basis of the opinion of parliament, but only on the basis of the decision of a single committee. there have been four committees which have taken decisions whose opinion is not taken into account in the trilogue. there is a rapporteur negotiating and 784 members have no chance to express their views. the procedure is as follows: 10/11. this will mean that we as individual members of parliament will have zero chance of looking at the text, evaluating it, discussing it and making an informed decision. we have already had difficulty today in having a serious discussion, we had to start later, we had to interrupt, now almost no one is listening. but that's appropriate. we are deciding on a 70 billion euro burden for the people. and we don't even seem to take a few hours, a few days to look at it thoroughly. i think that's irresponsible! i ask the presidency of the council and i also ask the presidency of our house to ensure that we all take the time we need. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the french presidency of the council of the european union is currently negotiating to finally make the code of conduct legally binding. there are two countries which still have some steps to go, namely germany and the united kingdom. we need a closed sign from the european parliament. the amendment is as follows. the following must be added at the end of point 5. i will say it in english: and an efficient control of arms exports;
i have to say, madam president, mr kindermann has tabled a good resolution on the cormorant problem, which i was happy to support. i am glad that this resolution has received 558 votes. the cormoran was placed under protection long ago when there were few breeding colonies in europe. it has now spread so rapidly that it is eating up entire ponds and rivers. it is therefore necessary to include it in annex ii to the birds directive. the damage it causes is threatening the livelihoods of many pond owners and fishermen. it is necessary to examine the minimum stock required for the maintenance of species in the member states. anything beyond that needs to be regulated. if the commission does not act, fish stocks are threatened. i therefore ask the commission to take this resolution seriously and to act swiftly.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 4 december 2008.
the next item is the one-minute statement on important political questions.
in order not to escalate the situation, i would like to make no comment. but the conference of presidents has dealt with the matter.
i have no knowledge of this, but we will look into it.
- i'm not sure. since you have addressed me personally and - at least after the interpretation - have also made a suggestion, i would like to confirm that we are making every effort and that we are doing our best. but i cannot bring about success, since the council must make the decision. but you can be sure that i and my staff have done our best.
i would like to point out that i have visited leyla zana in prison on another occasion. we will continue to be active there.
- i'm not going to. since you are constantly lecturing me, i would point out that if we had done things according to the rules of dhondt, that is to say, if we had done things in a fair way, you would not have had the floor.
mr president, if you had been there, you would not have spoken as you have now.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. working too long makes you sick, your concentration decreases, your error rate increases. people who work long hours put not only themselves but also those around them in danger. do you want to be treated by a doctor who is tired or to be met by one after long hours on call in traffic? we shall therefore vote in favour of a working time directive which is not as porous as swiss cheese, as the council has decided. a working time directive whose maximum limits are only guidelines because the opt-out can be agreed in each individual employment contract, such a working time directive fails to achieve the objective of health protection at the workplace. it is our task as co-legislators to ensure that a working time directive contains a minimum standard compatible with health. that is why we greens will vote against further opt-outs. we also think it is right that the member states have three years to adapt their national legislation. but we will not vote for the 'lex uk' to become a general exception in the european union. we also reject the commission's proposal to classify standby time as inactive time and to include it in rest periods. it is particularly important to us that working time be applied to the individual in general and not to each individual contract. this green amendment is crucial and goes against what liz lynne has painted on the wall as fata morgana. i also reject the claim that the european parliament has not proposed a flexible model. on the contrary, the extension of the reference period to 12 months allows a great deal of flexibility, but not at the expense of statutory rest periods, and that is important to us. it is not true, commissioner, that the workers can decide for themselves. you know that's not possible. otherwise, 30,000 protesters would not be announced for tomorrow, and some are already demonstrating. that is why we must reaffirm our position from the first reading. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to appeal once again, in particular to the colleagues in the epp group who are still hesitant, to follow closely the vote of the committee on employment and social affairs on wednesday and to stick to the position adopted at the first reading! it is incredible to advocate the protection of the health of workers on the one hand and to want to continue the opt-out on the other. the ilo recommended the 48-hour week in 1919 for a reason! the pressures on the workforce today are different, but they are no less severe! i think it is pure cynicism - i have to say this to the council - to sell the retention of the opt-out as a social achievement, just because it now introduces a cap on the average working week of 60 hours. the fact that the social partners' agreement is only required when it comes to even longer working hours means that we are prepared to accept working hours of 60 hours a week as normal. and that can't be! the council of ministers has already taken a decision on the question of the health of our workers and has not yet taken any decision on the question of the compatibility of family and professional life. that would be a betrayal of social europe! so, ladies and gentlemen, please go back to your homes. as regards the standby services, i say to the council: standby time must in principle be recognised as working time. there's no way around this! by leaving the weighting of inactive time to the social partners, we create sufficient flexibility for doctors, fire brigades and security services.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. twice i worked night shifts in hospitals, from 9:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. anyone who has experienced the work of nurses, paramedics, ambulance drivers and accident workers knows that the division of the time of emergency into active and inactive is not a reality. both are hours of work and must be paid accordingly. the ecj is right here too. i think the council's assessment that idle time is rest time is wrong. the result would be marathon duty for up to 72 hours. this is not the fault of the employees. but neither did the patients. health and safety must not be compromised. however, on-call duty is not the same as on-call duty. i am thinking of the factory firefighters i met during my work as one of the 10 reach rapporteurs. i recently invited firefighters to the european parliament in brussels. they come from the chemical industry, the steel industry and airports. the small number of jobs required made it clear that they had to work outside the maximum weekly working hours. the employers and employees agreed. the agreement is in the hands of the social partners. the social partners have been working together since the beginning of the year to develop a new approach to the problem of unemployment. where there are no collective bargaining parties, there must be state regulation. the ministers are, after all, agreed that the maximum working time in the eu should be 48 hours a week. i therefore agree in principle with the cercas report, but i also support flexibility by way of exceptions for certain occupational groups. when it comes to mediation, we must finally negotiate calmly and not in a hurry. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. on call is work time. the european court of justice has rightly held that this is the case. the member states have now responded well to this situation and no hospital or other institution has gone bankrupt. the standby service we are talking about here requires, moreover, presence at the workplace. everything else is on call and has nothing to do with this. the division into active and inactive duty - perhaps further specified by more or less arbitrary, but in any case uniform, standardization - is absurd in my view. the worker is, in legal terms, at the disposal of the employer, is subject to his instructions and cannot allocate his time according to his own free will. i am fundamentally against individual opt-outs. we all know that the employment relationship is not one of equality, but one of confrontation between the increasingly powerful employer and the worker who depends on his labour. the individual labour law was created precisely to compensate for the lack of equality of arms. a worker who depends on a job for his survival will doubtless put his health at risk to feed himself and his family. in difficult economic times, in which we are now - and in which we are faced with incompetent managers who have made major mistakes - the pressure on workers is constantly increasing. but man is not a machine that can work endlessly. i think that the council's position is unacceptable. i support in substance the report of our committee and the position of my colleague mr silva peneda and hope for a reasonable, humane solution in the conciliation procedure.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the principle must be that the entire standby time is considered as working time. i agree with the rapporteur on this point. i think we must change the common position on this. the common position even provides for the possibility of counting inactive periods during the standby period as rest periods. that can lead to marathon services of 72 hours and more. this must not be possible in any member state! i am therefore pleased that the committee has accepted my amendments in this respect. i would point out, however, that the working time directive applies not only to doctors but to a wide range of professions and that the workload of workers on call varies greatly. for example, there are also firefighters who can sleep or engage in leisure activities during their duty shifts. the firemen therefore advocate the possibility of deviating from the maximum weekly working hours. i therefore support the possibility of finding tailor-made solutions on the spot by means of a collective agreement - not an individual agreement - of opt-out. the parties to collective agreements have in the past negotiated collective agreements which are in keeping with the practice. i am explicitly in favour of this strengthening of collective bargaining. the new collective agreement opt-out is also much more worker-friendly than the current system. an opt-out is only possible with the consent of the employee and this consent must not be given together with the employment contract. if we vote against this possibility in the collective agreement, then there is a risk that there will be no revision of the working time directive at all, and we also jeopardise the possibility of an opt-out for the benefit of the workers. i shall therefore vote against the amendments to abolish the opt-out, because i am in favour of this tariff autonomy and of tailor-made solutions on the ground.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. when nokia's management in finland decided to close the nokia plant in bochum and move it to romania, the workers involved 2 000 were made redundant learned of this from the newspaper. in order to prevent such a situation from recurring, it is urgently necessary - and i emphasize this here - to implement the amended directive on european works councils, with the new definition of transnational enterprises. it is very sad that the commission has waited so many years to do this and has boycotted this compromise until the very end. it is clear once again that social europe is at the bottom of the list in the commission. if the changes had been made earlier, there would have been no nokia. these changes are urgently needed, they are making up for the shortcomings and they are overdue, if we look at the new structures of enterprises across national borders and the way in which they operate. i'm not happy about the compromise. nevertheless, as part of parliament's negotiating committee, i am in favour of this compromise, because we need this directive now. i would like to appeal once again to all those who are now trying to revive this compromise. this is a game of fire. that would mean that we would be negotiating forever and that a case like nokia would still happen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the political agenda remains that the revision has yet to come. i would say to the commission once again that this is an adjustment. the revision is still on the agenda, and we are in favour of a proper revision which will give the works councils what they need for their longterm work. now it's just an adjustment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too and my group would have wished for more than what has just come out. but i still think we have achieved a great deal and have made some progress in the area of co-determination at european level. one thing is clear: in future, the european works councils must be informed and consulted before a decision is taken - and this is the important thing - before a decision is taken on restructuring, and they will no longer learn about this from the newspapers. but i want to say very clearly to the commission: we must not allow the kind of chaos we have had in the past to reoccur in terms of who is really negotiating here. there must be a clear separation between the social dialogue and the european parliament. we sometimes felt that the rights of this house should be violated here. this can't happen again in the future!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to express my sincere thanks to our rapporteur, marianne thyssen, for her report. in the past few months it has been very active in tackling a very difficult and politically controversial issue and has been very successful in upholding the european parliament's position in the negotiations with the commission and the council. commissioner verheugen, what you have just said as the quintessence of the toy directive can only be underlined, as can the comments made by mrs thyssen. the new toy directive will make toys safer in the european union. but no policy can ever be so secure that any abuse can be excluded. we have to realize that the things that kids play with today are only 14 percent toys. the remaining 86% are things that children handle in exactly the same way, but which are not affected by the provisions of the toy directive. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals put forward by the rapporteur, mr von wogau, and will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the european parliament has also been asked to take a decision on the future of the european union. i would like to make a few comments on the commission's proposal. there are a number of member states of the european union where books make a significant contribution to the educational upbringing of children. these books, especially those for young children, will face considerable difficulties if this directive were to come into force in its present form. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. i would therefore be very grateful, commissioner, if you could instruct cen or the industry concerned as soon as possible to look into ways of setting standards for the various tests of children's books and the durability of children's book boxes in such a way that the existing stock of children's books can be maintained in the future. i thank the rapporteur and look forward to the further discussion.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i too would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues. however, we regret as a group that we had to do this work under massive time pressure. we regret above all that there was no proper first reading in parliament, where the other committees which worked on the directive, such as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on industry, research and energy, should have been involved. so they're practically excluded from the decision. i think that is a democratic deficit which this parliament must address. we need clearer guidelines on the first reading agreement than we currently have. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept them. we have improved the commission's report once again and the results we have obtained in the first reading are really good in many respects. but that could have been the reason for a proper procedure. we see deficits in three areas, and i should like to make them clear. the first shortcoming is the issue of certification by an independent certifier. we would have been quite prepared to make further compromises in this area, for example to subject companies that have been notified to rapex several times to a special certification. we would have been prepared to investigate more, to consider more, to be willing to compromise, but there was no real discussion with the commission and the council on this subject. i am extremely sorry about that, because i think that the safety of toys would have been a win-win if at least certain toys had been given this third party certification. another problem - mr schwab has already mentioned this - is that we are too cautious in other areas. i am not aware of any case where a child has been suffocated by a cardboard picture book or suffered any other damage. i therefore cannot understand why picture books are treated as toys and why there are specific procedures within cen for this. i can't follow that. i would have liked it if we had decided - and the committee has unanimously supported this - to exclude picture books from this directive. it would have been the right decision. i also believe that in the area of cmr substances, which include carcinogens, certain formulations are not clear enough because of the time constraints. we shall table an amendment to that effect to make it clear again in what direction we must go. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the problem of the environment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. carcinogenic chemicals in the children's litter? lead in the toy car? pets that cause allergies? parents have reason to be concerned about the safety of their children's toys. it was therefore essential that the more than 20 years old predecessor directive be replaced by a modern law that reflects the latest findings. we owe it to the safety and health of our children. some things have been achieved. i'm very happy about that, because we've got more protection. for example, strict rules apply to substances that may be carcinogenic, hereditary or harmful to reproduction. clearly visible and clearly worded warnings show parents when a toy can become a danger. we also pushed for the banning of many fragrances that are blamed for the spread of allergies in toys. all success stories that we as the european parliament have enforced together with the others council and commission . but there is one caveat: we wanted to have toys certified by independent testing institutes so that we could also be really safe. it's not enough to have the toy in the store and have samples taken. no, it would be necessary to be much more consistent here. actually, it should be like we do with the car. we don't certify our cars as roadworthy either. we need a toy car, and that should be as natural as the car we have. the european commission did not want that, the council of ministers did not want that, a majority of the conservatives and the liberals did not want that. i am very sorry that we have not yet succeeded in getting this through, but there is an amendment which we will be voting on on thursday. we may yet be able to achieve something here!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. toxic toys should not be in the hands of children, and none of us want to put toxic toys under the christmas tree. but the commission has put forward a half-hearted start to the eu toy directive, and it has not been improved by this compromise. the safety of dangerous chemicals should not be compromised, because there are huge loopholes still contained in this compromise. firstly, there is no clear ban on toxic heavy metals. it is inexplicable why cadmium and lead are still allowed in children's toys. the same is true of chromium, mercury, organic zinc. they don't belong in the hands of children, not even in the smallest quantities. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject of the use of lead in toys. the compromise allows for further limits for high-risk substances, even if they are half as high as those envisaged by the commission. only a clear prohibition can create security. unfortunately, the eu has shied away from responsibility for this clear protection of children. the same applies to allergenic fragrances. unfortunately, we have not succeeded in banning all allergenic fragrances, as we have proposed in the committee on the environment. the noise limits are also disappointing, as no clear objective has been agreed.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. unfortunately, there is a first reading agreement again, but mrs weiler will probably be dealing with that. we must seize the opportunity to find a compromise within the framework of the french presidency. at present, armaments are not subject to the rules of the internal market, which means that each armament requires an individual authorisation. from simple goods such as screws or uniform parts to highly complex armaments, all are subject to individual authorizations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used to the full, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. but one thing is clear: any simplification must not weaken the responsibility of the member states for arms exports and their controls. no, not at all. this responsibility is concentrated in the authorisation procedure. the authorisations shall specify the restrictions on use and final destination. these are an integral part of the product and its delivery and require the recipient to comply with them. a european regulation must strengthen this responsibility of the member states, but also oblige them all to follow the same procedures. simplification in this highly sensitive area must not, under any circumstances, ignore the fact that the eu repeatedly breaches export restrictions in third countries. eu weapons are used in countries with a history of human rights violations, such as the 82 armored military vehicles delivered to chad in september 2006 through france and belgium, in defiance of eu rules. in the past, while member states could impose on paper obligations on recipients to comply with final destination clauses, they had no de facto power over a recipient in another member state who continued to export against this restriction. for example, the ngo safer world complained that there are no effective penalties in romania for violations of the national arms transfer system. we want to change that with this directive. we have strengthened the responsibility of the member states with this directive. however, one thing must be said: the directive is based on internal market legislation, on article 95 of the ec treaty, that is to say, the first pillar of the treaties. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new treaty on european union, which is to be adopted by the council on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. however, we have a clear statement of reasons which makes it clear that the member states have a responsibility in this area. my main concern as rapporteur responsible for the european parliament was to increase transparency and democratic control in order to prevent and punish breaches if they occurred. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the agreement to include the countries of central and eastern europe, the mediterranean countries and the countries of central and eastern europe. we have strengthened two licensing procedures in particular, one is global authorization and the other is general authorization. we have clear obligations for companies that want a general authorization. these companies will have to be certified in the future, as this is the only way for them to obtain general authorizations. certification implies full responsibility of the companies up to the top management level for compliance with export restrictions. member states are obliged not only to withdraw certification from undertakings which do not comply with these restrictions, but also to impose penalties on them. companies with general authorisations will be published in publicly accessible registers. this provides the public with additional transparency and control. general authorisations with all their obligations must also be published. the certification of companies in the eu must be carried out by all member states according to the same criteria, which is particularly important. the directive will thus increase the pressure on member states which have so far authorised and organised arms exports to the exclusion of the public. this means that an area that transparency international considers to be particularly vulnerable to corruption is becoming truly transparent for the first time!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the commission proposal for this directive is based on the principle of 'the proper functioning of the internal market'. the aim is to facilitate the export of arms within europe, and this of course also has effects on arms exports abroad. in principle, this means that arms exports will increase, and the heide rühle report does not change this fundamental direction of the directive. there are some positive amendments, such as the exclusion of anti-personnel mines and cluster munitions. the european parliament's press release is very clear on the need to strengthen the european defence industry against competition from outside europe. it reinforces the oligopolistic trend in the european union's defence industry, since only six countries in the european union have a large military-industrial complex: germany, france, the united kingdom, sweden, italy and spain. the main thing is that these countries should receive export subsidies. intra-european arms exports also mean arms exports to belligerent states, for example the uk in iraq or germany in afghanistan. if we look at recital 24 of the directive, even the code of conduct, which is now legally binding, is, fortunately, left to the discretion of the member states. it states: 'since it is and should remain a matter of discretion for the member states to authorise or refuse an export, such cooperation should be based only on voluntary coordination of export policies.' we do not need a relaxation of the arms and military market, we need a directive on disarmament and arms conversion!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i very much appreciate the work of mrs heide rühle and i shall probably agree with her tomorrow, but with some reservations on the substance and also on procedural grounds. the common market for armaments and the promotion of competitiveness are not for me an end in themselves. we social democrats do not want a new militarization in the european union, but we want to achieve something else with this law. we want more transparency, and we'll get it. we want more efficient cooperation between member states, and this also means lower costs for national defence budgets. and what is not to be underestimated - and i say this particularly to one side of the house - is that we will, above all, help to prevent corruption by means of binding rules. how vulnerable this industry is to this, we all know. the negotiations also produced a positive result, namely that the strict export restrictions of certain countries, such as sweden and germany, were not being eroded. two drops of vermouth remain: my proposal to achieve democratic control through parliamentary scrutiny for the first time has unfortunately been rejected by the imco committee. the second point is that we were not able to table this motion again because we did not have a proper parliamentary debate. we are not talking about sneakers here. we are talking about dangerous and dangerous goods. that is why i think informal trilogues - as they are so disparagingly called, whether on the climate package or on toys or other legislation - are not suited to a modern parliament.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i would also like to stress once again that this is an internal market directive and not a foreign policy directive. i think that's very important. in the field of foreign policy we would not be able to adopt a directive. parliament is only heard and cannot take part in the decision-making. the internal market has given us full co-determination and has therefore also enabled us to bring transparency to an area which has hitherto been too much in the grey area. i would like to reply to mr pflüger, who is threatening to create an oligopoly. what do we have right now? we have the ilo! the major countries are already working together and have facilitated transportation between them. what we are doing now is opening up the whole internal market to transparent rules, with obligations to the member states and to businesses, and we are thus working against this oligopoly. so that's why your argument doesn't hold up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards implementation: the commission will report to parliament regularly, because we all know that we are entering new territory. and this must be accompanied by regular checks and by building confidence among the member states. all this is provided for in the directive. as far as amendments are concerned, we have fought as a committee - and i think this is very important - for amendments to be possible only with the agreement of the commission and parliament. so there are exceptions only if parliament approves. we have the regulatory procedure with control, and i think that is also an important step forward. that is precisely what we are trying to achieve: standardization of this area, clear and transparent rules, clarity and greater control. i think we can achieve all this on the basis of the internal market and we could not have achieved it on any other basis. i therefore cannot understand the fundamental criticism made by mr pflüger.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. first of all, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive and good cooperation throughout the legislative process. i would also like to thank the french presidency for allowing us to conclude this legislative procedure with a compromise. the presidency has made a considerable contribution to this. tomorrow we will decide in the european parliament on the compromise package on euro 6 exhaust gas standards for heavy vehicles. the new emission standards for heavy duty vehicles are about reducing pollutants, not reducing greenhouse gases. sometimes it gets confused. euro 6 is an important instrument for improving air quality in europe. euro 6 in particular reduces particulate matter and nitrogen oxides. in europe, fine dust alone is responsible for over 348 000 premature deaths. i would therefore perhaps have been able to imagine a more ambitious limit at this point. technical studies have also supported this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. compared to the current emission standard 6 which has been in force since 1 october 2008, we will achieve a reduction of 66% for fine dust alone and a reduction of over 80% for nitrogen oxides compared to the current emission standard. nitrogen oxides are particularly dangerous for infants, children and the elderly because they cause ozone to form close to the ground. i would also like to mention the date of introduction. we have managed to bring forward the date of introduction. the euro 6 will therefore come faster and the air quality will also improve. on the whole, we have reached a good compromise. air quality, but also the quality of life, will certainly improve with this instrument. almost exactly two years ago today, we debated and decided in this house on the euro 5 and euro 6 emission limits for passenger cars. it has now become clear in the course of the preparation of the implementing measures that there has been a delay in this respect. i must make it clear again that this cannot happen in this legislative procedure, but that the manufacturers must have all the necessary information at their disposal at an early stage. i am therefore pleased that the commission will certainly give us a statement shortly that we can expect the implementing measures to be in place by the end of march 2010, i.e. by 1 april 2010 at the latest. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the car industry. it also found that we have a drastic decline in sales in the commercial vehicle sector. that is why i am glad that we have succeeded in incorporating into the legislation currently in force an instrument which allows member states to grant tax incentives to introduce the euro 6 emission standard earlier. this will certainly contribute to economic recovery as well as to better air quality, a better quality of life and better health for all of us. i would like to thank all the parties involved and look forward to a debate that will certainly be interesting.
the commission's vice-president. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. first of all, let me thank the rapporteur, mr groote, very warmly for his dedicated cooperation in connection with this proposal. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a regulation on the introduction of a european road safety certificate. i would like to comment on something mr groote has mentioned: we are doing this against the backdrop of an incredibly serious breakdown in the commercial vehicle market in the european union, because the commercial vehicle market is affected even more than the car market. this is less noticeable to the public because most citizens do not buy a truck. but it nevertheless has enormous economic implications, and this situation is of great concern to the commission. in this context, it is also important to provide manufacturers with legal certainty and a clear framework so that they know what is expected of them. that is why this euro 6 standard is being adopted at a time when the euro 5 standard has only just come into force. this euro 6 proposal was developed in the context of the clean air for europe programme, cafe, clean air for europe and the thematic strategy on air quality. the strategy calls for further reductions in pollutant emissions across the transport sector and beyond, if the eu is to meet its air quality targets. we want to minimize the harmful effects on human health and protect the environment as a whole. the euro 6 emission limits, which form part of this overall strategy, will bring about a further appreciable reduction in soot and nitrogen oxides emissions compared with the euro 5 phase, which started on 1 october this year. the introduction of a limit value for the quantity of particles emitted is a major innovation, and this will allow the ultrafine fraction of particles emitted by the engine to be monitored. in addition, additional requirements are introduced for the monitoring of heavy-duty vehicle emissions in real driving conditions and for access to repair and maintenance information. this is similar to the rules we have already made for light commercial vehicles. the adoption of this proposal is also important because it implements several important recommendations of the cars-21 process. firstly, better regulation: the proposal takes account of the views of the circles concerned, as revealed by a public internet consultation. in addition, the technical rules are based on a cost-benefit analysis based on a proper impact assessment. secondly, a substantial simplification of the existing legislation is achieved. the commission has also proposed that the directive be amended to include a new type of vehicle, the 'new car' (new car) and the 'new car' (new car). thirdly, there is a need for worldwide harmonization. firstly, a new test and measurement methodology developed in the framework of the unece in geneva is being introduced. secondly, the limits for particulate matter and nitrogen oxides are now the same as in the usa. the close cooperation between parliament, the council and the commission has been crucial to the success of the negotiating process and has worked very well, for which i am particularly grateful to the rapporteur. the commission may accept any compromise amendments tabled by the rapporteur. i am also happy to make the statement requested by the rapporteur - i am even doing it a little better than he asked. other the commission declares that the technical measures implementing the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on type-approval of motor vehicles and engines with respect to emissions from heavy duty vehicles (euro vi) and on access to vehicle repair and maintenance information will be transmitted to the european parliament and the council under the regulatory procedure with scrutiny before 31 december 2009.
adopted on 13december.the commission has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of comments to the council's opinion on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1612/1999 on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men andwomen in matters of social security. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. first of all, i would like to thank rapporteur matthias groote and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. the commission has already been able to reach agreement on a very technical dossier at first reading. as the shadow rapporteur for the epp group, i remember very well our vote on the revision of the particulate matter directive. i was a shadow reporter there, too. we have been able to get the commission to sign a declaration in which the commission itself has undertaken to propose measures to combat particulate matter where it is produced. the new euro 6 regulation for lorries and buses is one of the measures we are calling for. it fights the particulate matter at the source, where the particulate matter is ultimately produced. the new euro 6 standard will reduce particulate matter emissions from diesel trucks and buses by 66% compared to the euro 5 standard, and nitrogen oxides (nox) emissions from petrol vehicles will be reduced by a further 80%. in order to achieve these new, ambitious emission standards, the implementation measures, which will set out the exact technical details, must be known in advance. i therefore welcome the statement just made by commissioner verheugen, in which the commission commits itself to submitting the implementing measures to parliament and the council very quickly - sooner than originally planned. i also think it is important that independent operators have access to repair and maintenance information. independent market players, such as free workshops, car clubs or roadside assistance services. if we want to ensure that competition in the repair sector is effective, then we must ensure that access. this regulation has done just that. this is good for competition, for the price of repairs, for road safety and for consumers.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not if we vote tomorrow on euro 6 for lorries, we shall be voting in a very good tradition. we also voted on euro 5 and euro 6 for cars not too long ago in this parliament, continuing the success story of emission standards for cars - in the case of lorries - in europe. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr matthias groote, with whom i have been able to work together successfully for the second time. we are again working together to bring legislation to a successful conclusion at first reading, thereby creating planning security for industry and good environmental protection. the agreement with the council and the commission has produced a piece of useful legislation. the pollutant values for truck exhaust have been developed in a sophisticated way and the timetable has been streamlined. the new limits will come into force earlier than originally proposed by the commission. we are thus making a good contribution to the protection of the environment and the health of european citizens without imposing an excessive burden on the producers. the entry into force of the regulation was delayed by almost a year compared with the commission's proposal, and yet the production cycles and planning periods of the manufacturers are taken into account. i welcome the fact that the commission has learned from past mistakes and has accepted a deadline for comitology and the submission of implementing measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the future. the figures for emission reduction are impressive: 66% less soot, 80% less nitrogen oxides. the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the pollution of the air. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. against this background, fleet renewal is becoming increasingly important. old dirt-slingers that no longer meet the standards of the day must be taken off the streets. the emissions balance can be improved more quickly and easily than by expensive engine tuning.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i thank all my colleagues for the lively debate. first of all, i would like to thank the commission, in person günter verheugen, for the reading of the declaration on implementing measures here today. it really gave us a headache and a worry. it was good that this was once again done in public. many colleagues have said that environmental standards will certainly increase sales and can do so, because this particular sector of industry is in crisis. mrs krupa said that the climate and energy package, but also this legislation, will wipe out small producers from the market, will destroy them. i do not think so, because the euronorm and the euro-emission standard have been a success story, and technical innovations have always fuelled the market and always encouraged consumers to buy new vehicles. mrs roithová has mentioned the issue of retrofitting. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because if we equip the vehicles with diesel particulate filters, ultimately more nitrous oxide comes out the back. we need a sensible combination and a uniform regulation for retrofitting procedures. it is very important that in the next few years we should start something here, that we should also have uniform standards there, that not only new vehicles can be equipped with these particularly environmentally friendly technologies, but that a uniform, standardised procedure can also be followed for used vehicles. once again, i would like to thank all those who have contributed and taken action. it is only in this way that we have been able to conclude this legislative procedure in its first reading tomorrow, and that industry, but also the inhabitants of europe, have the security of planning, knowing what is in store for them. i would like to thank you again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the gargani report because i consider that what is on the table here, which is laid down in a council regulation, in which we have only a right to be heard, constitutes a far-reaching interference with the freedom of members. i would point out - and i do not wish to diminish the work of the legal affairs committee - that there are many open points and problems in the question of the impact of this council regulation on our assistants. as budgetary controller, i have always felt that something urgently needed to be done about the question of the status of assistants. i have always been one of those who have also provided social security and decent employment for their people. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it would have been better if the parliament's administration had reacted in time and helped to enforce the existing model, which is not so bad and which we want to maintain for local assistants as well. it would have been better for our freedom.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of the european council of 11 and 12 december and the statement by the president-in-office of the council on the report on the activities of the french presidency. i would like to extend a very warm welcome to the president of the european council, president sarkozy of france. i would like to welcome you to the european parliament for the third time during the french presidency. i also warmly welcome the president of the european commission, mr josé manuel durão barroso, and representatives of the commission. i am glad to see that several commissioners are also with us today. welcome to the club. (applause from the centre) i am not going to go into detail. it is the task of the group chairmen and your task, if you speak for your group, to make an assessment. but i would like to make a few introductory remarks of my own. president sarkozy, you have assumed the presidency at a time of great events which called for decisive negotiation and action. they have faced these challenges - whether it was georgia, the financial crisis, the economic challenges or other problems. you are here in parliament today for the third time as president of the european council, and you were here and spoke before you took office as president of the european council. you have hosted the conference of presidents at your seat in the elysée palace on several occasions and you have invited the commission and parliament to your country's capital in a spectacular celebration on 1 july, the day of your inauguration as president of the european council, to make a powerful statement of your will to unite europe. we then met again in your capital on 13 and 14 july, on the occasion of the mediterranean summit on 13 july to establish the union for the mediterranean, and on 11 november, 90 years after the end of the first world war, we invited you to verdun to commemorate. this is an expression of your appreciation for the european parliament. i want to thank you for that. i now ask you to address the european parliament.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, when france began its presidency, the situation in europe was marked by the interruption of the ratification process of the lisbon treaty, following the vote of our irish friends rejecting the treaty. at that time, we could not have imagined that a war would break out between georgia and russia, nor could we have imagined the violence of the financial crisis, first, and then the economic crisis, that europe would have to face. the french presidency, mr president, has tried to organise all its action around two convictions: the world needs a strong europe, the first conviction; the second conviction, there can be no strong europe if europe is disunited. naturally, i imagine that these ideas are not original, but they are nonetheless necessary. we have tried to ensure that europe is united and that europe is strong, that it thinks for itself. what is a strong europe? it is a europe that thinks, that has convictions, that has answers and that imagines. it is a europe that does not simply follow, it is a europe that refuses a consensus based solely on the unsaid, on the evacuation of problems and on the time supposedly to fix everything, whereas my conviction is that the longer we wait, the more complicated we are. finally, this presidency has been carried out in the light of international events which have changed the way we organise our work. it's certainly not my place to take stock. i just want to tell you how we've dealt with these different trials. when the crisis in georgia broke out in august, on 8 august, we had an obsession in our minds: to stop the war and not to fall back into what had happened in bosnia. i am not going to say that the european union is not a great power, but it is a great power. it was the united states, our allies, our friends, who took their responsibility and europe had to follow. the presidency's obsession has been with europe taking its responsibilities, and in august we first negotiated a ceasefire on 12 august and then a withdrawal agreement on 12 september. finally, war was avoided, the withdrawal was initiated and, above all - and thanks be to all the countries of the union - europe remained united. it was not so obvious because, given the history of our different countries, a painful history for those europeans who have lived so many decades behind the iron curtain, in a humiliated europe, in a divided europe, in a martyred europe, it is normal that some countries have a different sensibility towards our russian neighbours than those who have only known freedom. despite this, europe has remained united, and the presidency, together with the president of the european commission, has done everything possible to avoid the impetus of war. on august 8, russian forces were 40 km from tbilisi; today, almost all russian forces have evacuated the territory of georgia, except for ossetia and abkhazia. europe has responded with a show of force, without, however, embarking on a policy of aggression against our russian neighbours. my conviction is that we have no future other than to find with our neighbours the conditions for economic development, security and peace by explaining to them that if they want to count in the world - and russia is a great country - they must respect values, practices and behaviours that should no longer be those which were theirs in another era in europe. (applause) i would like to thank but europe has existed. then came the financial crisis. the financial crisis did not start in august 2007, as i sometimes hear people say. the trouble began in august 2007. but the systemic financial crisis that we have seen around the world started when the american people made the decision, which proved to be very serious, to accept the bankruptcy of lehman brothers on september 18, 2008. it was from that moment, and only from that moment, that we entered into a financial crisis of a magnitude never seen in the world. we have tried, with president barroso, to achieve two things. the first is the unity of europe that we have built up gradually: first, by bringing together the four largest countries in europe, with the commission, with the central bank, with the president of the eurogroup; the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 15 and 16 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 17 and 18 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 18 and 19 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 19 and 20 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 20 and 21 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 20 and 21 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 21 and 22 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 23 and 24 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 24 and 25 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 23 and 26 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 26 and 27 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 23 and 26 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 27 and 28 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 23 and 29 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 27 and 29 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 23 and 29 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 23 and 24 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 23 and 24 december last, and the european council in strasbourg on 23 and 25 and 26 december last. when we arrived a month later, all of europe was united around the same plan to support the banks, and we tried, with president barroso, to make this european plan to support our banking system to prevent it from exploding into the global plan, while the americans went from the paulson i plan to the paulson ii plan to the paulson iii plan, which is nothing but the inspiration of the european plan i. i am not saying that things are settled, i am simply saying that if the european states, the commission and the european institutions had not taken up their responsibilities at the time, ladies and gentlemen, we would have been faced with an unprecedented event, the collapse or bankruptcy of a number of member states, the destruction of the european banking system. europe has shown its unity and solidarity. i am thinking in particular of that famous weekend when 22 billion euros of credit had to be mobilised for hungary, which was itself under attack, after 17 billion euros had to be mobilised for ukraine and we still have to deal with a number of baltic countries, not to mention the other problems we have to deal with in the world. in the financial crisis europe was united, europe called for the washington summit, europe called for the g20 and europe will be hosting the summit on the reform of global governance in london on 2 april. europe has said with one voice that it wants entrepreneurial capitalism and not speculative capitalism, that it wants the reform of the financial system, that it wants a different place for the emerging countries, that it wants the moralization of capitalism; europe has tried to defend its convictions with one voice. the debate on the economic crisis, ladies and gentlemen, was not a simple one. it was not easy for two reasons. the first is that the financial situation of our countries is not the same. the second is that our economic culture, our political identity, is not the same; however, when we arrived, everyone agreed that a concerted stimulus of around one and a half points of gdp was needed, as recommended by the commission. i can understand why we are always surprised by disagreements here and there, by hesitations, misunderstandings and misunderstandings. i would remind those who look at europe that we are 27 countries and it is not easy to give these 27 countries the same policy at the same time, when everyone can be pressed by electoral constraints because our elections are not held on the same day and, in front of this assembly, the temple of european democracy, everyone can understand that the proximity of an election campaign is not a determining factor in obtaining consensus. well, europe, after all, after having defined a common policy in the financial crisis, has managed to define, for better or worse, a common policy in the face of the economic crisis. there was also the union for the mediterranean. i am happy to assume that it took some consultation, some compromise, to get two things across. that if europe does not take its share of the middle east peace, no one will do it for us. there is not a single country in the world that is capable of promoting peace between the israelis and the arab world. europe must play its part, europe must be present to avoid a head-on confrontation between the arab world on the one hand and the world's leading power, the united states, on the other. what about the union for the mediterranean? it is the organization of a constant dialogue between europe and the mediterranean, and therefore the arab countries, a dialogue which we need, which the arabs need, which europe needs so that europe ceases to be only a donor and that europe has political convictions in the service of peace and that europe does not just pay, but also asks for peace to take place, a balanced peace, especially between the palestinians, who have the right to a modern state, a safe democratic state, a state, and israel, which has the right to security for this country which is a miracle of democracy. the union for the mediterranean was a matter of persuasion. convince him of what? the union for the mediterranean does not undermine european unity, but rather strengthens it. finally, ladies and gentlemen, let us europeans be proud that the union for the mediterranean is co-chaired by the european presidency and egypt, and has five assistant secretaries-general, including an israeli and a palestinian. this is the first time that arab countries have accepted an israeli member of the executive of a regional organization like the union for the mediterranean, it is a historic success. i would like to pay tribute to bernard kouchner, who, at the marseille summit, negotiated brilliantly to achieve this absolutely unexpected result. in return, the israelis have accepted the participation of the arab league in the work of the union for the mediterranean, which does not in any way prevent the czech and then the swedish presidencies from developing the eastern partnerships that europe needs in the future. and then there is the energy-climate. on energy and climate, let's get this straight. the battle was famous and i'm sure everyone has reasons to be dissatisfied. some say that we are asking too much of industry; others say that we are not asking enough. the third one had to go this way, the others that way. the german presidency had set a timetable for the end of 2008. the german presidency set three objectives: the triple 20. and, in the end, the agreement we have reached in the european council, which i hope will be decided by the european parliament tomorrow, meets the objectives you set for yourselves. i must say to the truth that everyone has had to face up to his responsibilities. it would have been foolish for europe to abandon its own objectives when a new president of the united states of america is setting ambitious environmental objectives for the world's leading power. irresponsible, because if europe does not unite on the commission's energy-climate package, how can we imagine that europe will be heard by the indians, the chinese, the brazilians, all the countries of the world which now have to take care of the planet's environmental balances. to do this, we had to convince and we had to find ways of compromise. what compromises? i said that we would never give up the timetable and the objective of the three twenties. but everyone here has to understand that. countries such as the newly joined eastern european countries, whose heavy industry was sacrificed by the transition from the communist system to the market economy system, have accepted that we keep the reference year 2005 when there were reasons for them to ask for another reference year, for example 1990, which would not have been shocking given what happened in those countries and what they suffered. i am speaking under the control of minister jean-louis borloo, who has been a total, constant and effective supporter of this negotiation. i wanted to ensure that voluntary action on environmental matters was not at the expense of a social policy that would blow up these new members of the union. to the fundamentalists, i would say that the issue for me has never been not to impose environmental obligations on poland, hungary and others, but not to put these countries in a situation of social explosion and never to put them in a situation where they have to choose between environmental protection and growth. it is a new growth, a sustainable growth, a green growth that we have proposed to them but which avoids an explosion of prices or consequences for polish workers, hungarian workers, workers in the east, which no democratic country in the world could support. i would add, finally, that i heard your concerns when i was last in parliament. some of you - and i understand them - have said to me: 'you have given up your objectives, mr president, because you have accepted unanimity for the decision in the council'. i accepted the unanimous vote for one simple reason: the environmental choice europe is making must not be a choice made, it must be a choice claimed. imagine the weakness of an agreement reached by a majority, with some of the countries not joining the pact! what credibility would the energy-climate package have had if it had been ratified by a majority when everyone is well aware that unanimity was the guarantee that our political commitments would be respected? (applause) i would like to thank i would add that a number of you have reminded me that this is codecision and i would like to say that i have used it. in discussions with my fellow heads of state and government, i must honestly say, mr president, that the vigilant presence of a parliament committed to getting an agreement on the energy-climate package has been a powerful mobilizing factor for heads of state or government who were less eager to get it done than others. anyway, today i bring you - you can do what you want with it - the unanimous agreement of the 27 heads of state on the energy-climate package. i shall end with two points that i will bring up very quickly. migration policy: how can we imagine a europe most of whose countries are in the schengen area, which postulates the free movement of people and goods going forward without establishing common principles for the development of a common immigration policy? this work has been done and i must say, it has been done without excess. and you in the european parliament have done much to calm a debate on immigration policies which, at national level, do not always set the example of respect for persons, calm, balance and responsibility. we now have the basis of a common immigration policy, unanimously. just a word about the defense. i will have the opportunity next year, with chancellor merkel, to organise the nato kehl-strasbourg summit, and i think that what is important in what we have decided is that the 27 now understand that this is the security and defence policy of europe and nato, that europe's defence and security policy is complementary to that of nato and that there is no need to oppose one to the other. finally, there is the institutional problem. when the 'no' vote came in ireland, i went to dublin with bernard kouchner, at the invitation of brian cowen, the irish prime minister, and i said, shocking as it was at the time, that the only way out of the problem was for our irish friends to be consulted again. this statement caused a debate, as if it was disrespectful to a people to ask that this people could once again decide! what about today? today, 25 countries have almost completed the ratification process of lisbon. on the 26th, the czech republic has just taken an important decision, as the constitutional court has indicated that the lisbon ratification process can take place, and prime minister topolanek, in a courageous and responsible statement, has indicated that his ambition is to propose the ratification of the lisbon treaty. so the irish case remains. this is the agreement we reached unanimously. this arrangement is very simple. firstly, it is to guarantee each member state, if the treaty of lisbon comes into force, one commissioner per member state. i know that this is an effort on the part of some of you, as it is an effort on the part of a number of governments who believed that a smaller commission was needed to be more effective. i would like to ask each of you to reflect on this. if we want lisbon - and europe needs strong and lasting institutions - we can only have it if our irish friends vote and say yes. for them to say yes, we need a new fact. this new feature, the european council proposes that it is one commissioner per member state. second point. we have made a number of political commitments relating to the specific nature of the irish debate, neutrality, taxation, the family. these political commitments were not a problem. what's the matter? it's better if everything is on the table. the problem is the legal force of these political commitments. because in ireland there is a constitutional court and no one doubts that the supporters of the no - and it is their right - will take the irish constitutional court to ask for the force of the political commitments that have been made. this is the compromise that the presidency has proposed: no re-ratification of the lisbon treaty by all those who have done so, no amendment of the lisbon treaty. it seems to me that there is no point in solving one problem and creating 26 others! it's all very clear. on the other hand, when europe next enlarges, probably croatia, probably in 2010 or 2011 - if things go as they should - then, mr president, we will need a new treaty to enlarge europe to the new entrant. we have therefore proposed that at the time of enlargement of europe, and only at that time, we should add two elements to the treaty of accession of croatia: the first element, the so-called 'irish' protocol, and the second element, the question of the number of members of parliament. the european elections will be held on the basis of the treaty of nice. i do not see how we could do otherwise. however, a number of states have been granted more parliamentarians under the lisbon treaty. the first enlargement could also solve this problem. on this basis, the irish government has courageously committed itself to consulting the irish people again on the lisbon treaty before the end of 2009. this means that if things were to go as i would like them to go - but it is up to the irish to decide - the treaty of lisbon would enter into force only a year later. ladies and gentlemen, it was not easy to discuss this, it was not easy to organise, it was not easy for the irish or for anyone else, but the european spirit is first and foremost a spirit of compromise. if at 27 you are not capable of compromise, there is no point in having a european ideal. the european ideal is to listen to each other and try to find common ways of overcoming problems. finally, i would like to end by thanking the european parliament first. i should also like to say that it was very easy, very pleasant and very useful for the presidency to have many contacts with all the groups in your assembly, regardless of their political commitment, right or left, liberal or green, sovereigntist or federalist. you have all shown a willingness to advance europe in your own way. i must say that parliament has been a decisive factor in the presidency's efforts to achieve results. i would even say that it has been easier to discuss, work and negotiate with the european parliament than with - i will not go into details - this or that other interlocutor. at the end of a presidency, we express our congratulations, not our regrets. i would also like to say that with the president of the commission, and may he be given justice, we tried to work in tandem, each one aware of his responsibilities, and we could never have achieved the results that the presidency has achieved without working hand in hand with president barroso. i want to say it because it's the truth, at least, as i've experienced it. finally, i would like to thank the heads of state and government. ladies and gentlemen, we cannot build europe against the states. it's obvious. europe is not the enemy of nations and nations are not the enemies of europe. i want to tell you something, if we hadn't tried to understand the problems of every democratic government, we wouldn't have gotten there. it is a mistake to try to go over the heads of those who are elected in their own country. it is not called a european ideal, it is called fundamentalism, and fundamentalism, i have always fought against them in my life, even european fundamentalism. because in european fundamentalism, i forget the word europe and i hear the word fundamentalism, and fundamentalism is never good advice. to want to build europe against the nations would be a historic mistake. every head of government has taken responsibility, every nation has assumed it. finally, i would like to say, on a personal note, that i have learned a great deal from this six-month presidency and have enjoyed my work very much. i understand that meps are passionate about what they do. because when you have the chance, for six months, to know and to have to decide the problems of twenty-seven countries, you gain tolerance, you gain an open mind and you understand that europe is probably the most beautiful idea that has been invented in the 20th century and that we need this europe more than ever. i tried to move europe, but europe changed me! i want to say something because i really mean it. (applause) i would like to thank i really believe that every head of state and government would benefit from exercising this responsibility from time to time. firstly, because he would understand that the problems he faces in his own country can often be solved only by agreement with our neighbours. he would understand that beyond the differences between us, there are so many things that bring us together, and above all he would understand something more important: that it is easier for europe to have big ambitions than small ones. the last thing i believe in my heart is that in the european council, in the european parliament, in the european commission, it is easier to bring about big projects than small ones, because small projects do not have the breath or the strength to push back national egoisms. the great projects, the great ambitions, the great ideas, in the name of these great ideas and these great ambitions, we can overcome national egoisms. while europe remains ambitious and understands that the world needs it to make decisions! when you put the dust under the carpet, you prepare for the hard days ahead. the problems must be solved immediately and now, and it is not true that the european institutions are preventing decision-making. what prevents decision-making is lack of courage, lack of willpower, and the hardening of an ideal. decisions, we must not wait for lisbon! we must not wait for tomorrow, we must take them now and i have every confidence in the czech presidency to take over the continuum of the french presidency. (applause from the left)
mr president of the european council! we thank you - and the applause has been expressed - for your speech, but especially for your courage and your will to serve europe. before i give the floor to the president of the commission, i should like to extend a warm welcome to the two ministers bernard kouchner and jean louis borloo who have made a major contribution to the success of the presidency. i welcome both ministers. i have the honour to welcome mr bruno le maire, the minister for europe, who has succeeded mr jean-pierre jouillet. jean-pierre jouillet is now the president of the financial controller in france, and we have worked very well with him. i would like to say a sincere word of thanks to him from this place. allow me, in the presence of the other european institutions - i know it is not customary here - to congratulate you on a very special birthday, because yesterday the former president of the european parliament, klaus hänsch - who was president of the european parliament from 1994 to 1997 and a member of the parliament since its first direct elections - celebrated his 70th birthday. i would like to express my sincere thanks and appreciation to him for his great commitment to parliament and to the european union. i now ask the president of the european commission, josé manuel durão barroso, to address the european parliament.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, the record of the last european council will go down in the history of the union. rarely has a european council had to take so many decisions on such fundamental political issues. europe has rarely been able to boast such positive results and even triple success. in a situation of difficulty, crisis and even emergency, we have made considerable progress for the future of europe and europeans. the europe we all cherish is this europe: the europe capable of the best. in addition to other important conclusions, particularly in the areas of security and defence policy, the union for the mediterranean and the new eastern partnership, i would like to highlight three areas in particular: the lisbon treaty, economic recovery and energy and climate. twenty-seven member states worked together to define a common path to continue the political process along the lisbon treaty path. we in the european commission have always supported this treaty and we were right to think that if we took the time to listen to the concerns of our irish friends we could find the elements of a solution together. in response to the commission's initiative of 26 november, 27 member states decided to coordinate their economic recovery plans to cope with a storm of unusual severity. we have today an agreement for an effort to stimulate the economy of about 1.5% of the union's gdp, as the commission had recommended. this coordinated plan will tackle the recession, including with greater efforts for the most vulnerable in our societies. at the same time, it will enable us to invest in our economies to adapt them to the challenges of tomorrow. this means that we will have the opportunity in this crisis to invest even more in social europe and the europe of reforms. following the legislative proposals presented by the commission on 23 january 2008, and on the basis of a strong contribution from the european parliament, 27 member states unanimously committed themselves to transforming europe into a green and low-energy economy for future generations. the agreement on our energy and climate policy remains true to the objective of achieving the '3 times 20%' by 2020. this historic breakthrough, if confirmed tomorrow in this house, is a victory for the partner europe, that is to say for the european institutions which have worked hand in hand with the member states in a constructive spirit and with a firm common will to succeed. in the success of a partner europe, i would like to reiterate our gratitude to the french presidency of the council. mr president, my dear friend, your presidency has been marked by exceptionally intense political circumstances. you mentioned it earlier: the unprecedented financial crisis and the war between russia and georgia. your presidency has dealt with them with efficiency, with coolness and, why not say, with mastery and panache. france is back in europe, you said on the night of your election. we don't doubt that for a second. i would even say that we have not had a second to doubt it, and we welcome it! i therefore sincerely congratulate president sarkozy and the entire team of the french presidency, the members of his government, the diplomats and the experts. you did a remarkable job. thank you on behalf of europe. (applause) i would like to thank i am also very proud of the central role played by the commission in the success of the partnership for europe, its capacity for political initiative, which is based on sound technical preparation, and the relevance of its proposals. the commission has proved that it remains the key lever for turning political aspirations into concrete action. it was around the commission's proposals on climate and energy, starting with hampton court in autumn 2005, passing through the political agreement on targets in march 2007 under the german presidency, and culminating in the legislative proposals of january 2008, that member states were able to reach a unanimous agreement. it was also on the basis of the proposals made by the commission on 29 october and 26 november that the member states agreed on a common recovery plan. the strong support for them is opening a new era in europe and i would like to stress that without the political commitment of the presidency to a more political europe it would be very difficult, if not impossible, to achieve these commitments. i say this after having worked with nine presidents of the european council and i can tell you how difficult it is to find consensus today between 27 member states which, of course, sometimes have different priorities. that is why we need this spirit of partnership in europe. finally, in the success of partner europe, i would also like to pay tribute to the very remarkable work that the european parliament has done over the last few months, particularly on the 'climate package'. nothing would have been possible without the commitment of parliament and the hard work of your rapporteurs, committee chairs and political group coordinators. the final compromise as it emerged from this weekend's trilogues bears the hallmark of this commitment, whether on the emissions trading system, the allocation of effort, renewable energy or carbon capture and storage, where the arguments put forward by your assembly have raised the volume of allowances available for such financing to 300 million tonnes. from the outset, the european parliament has shown its understanding of the global context: this is a project for europe, but also a contribution to the global effort and the cornerstone of our strategy for the copenhagen negotiations next year. i therefore hope that the plenary session tomorrow will approve the outcome of this work by a very large majority. you, the european parliament, hold the last key that will open the last door to enable europe of the 21st century to take off. europe will be the first global player to agree to legally binding rules to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020 while clearly committing to 30% under an international agreement. by voting for this agreement by a very large majority, your assembly will be sending a very strong message to our partners. we also need the commitment of our partners, especially our american partners. that is why, as i said at the end of the european council, we europeans, who are taking the lead on this agenda, are now in a position to say to our american friends: 'yes, you can! that is the message we must send to the americans so that they can work with us to get a truly global agreement. the world around us is changing and so is europe. together we have taken a number of crucial decisions to give the european union the means to succeed in the age of globalisation, to protect citizens from the fallout of an economic and financial crisis, to create the conditions for a return to sustainable growth and also to lead the efforts for a reform of the financial system and for global governance. we have come a long way over the last few months in addressing these challenges but let us be clear a lot still remains to be done in the weeks and months to come. on climate change, we now need to turn our attention to the road to copenhagen. on global governance, and especially on the reform of the financial system, we need to prepare the g20 summit in london. on the economic recovery plan, we need to translate political agreement into concrete action. in all these areas, continued close cooperation between the community institutions will remain key to success. in particular, with regard to the financial and economic crisis, we will need the backing of parliament and council as co-legislators and budgetary authority. i will have the opportunity to discuss this in more detail with the european parliament's conference of presidents tomorrow morning, but let me now give you a brief glimpse of what lies ahead. with regard to the community budget, we will step up advance payments from early 2009 so that member states have earlier access to up to eur 1.8 billion. today the commission will adopt a proposal to adapt the european globalisation adjustment fund to the current situation and to facilitate access. with regard to the use of unspent money from the community budget, the european council has given the commission the green light to propose a reallocation for trans-european energy interconnection and broadband infrastructure projects and to promote energy efficiency. we envisage an amount of eur 5 billion for 2009 and 2010. an important sum will be reserved for the demonstration projects in carbon capture and storage, complementing financing under the emissions trading system. i rely on this parliament's support to convince all those who still resist the use of these unspent funds. i trust the french presidency to turn the clear political conclusions of the european council into reality. let's be clear about this. it is important that the ambition shown by the european council is now accepted at all levels of the decision-making process. in order to accelerate investment by member states, the commission will also this week propose a temporary exemption of two years beyond the de minimis threshold for state aid, up to eur 500 000. i would also like to mention the use for 2009 and 2010 of accelerated procedures in the public procurement directives, given the current exceptional circumstances. but let me be clear. while the current crisis calls for an acceleration of procedures, it can under no circumstances serve as a pretext for suspending competition or state aid rules, which are the backbone of our single market. we need to keep the integrity of our internal market. this is one of the most important european achievements as is, by the way, the euro. that is why we need to keep the stability and growth pact and the internal market rules if we want to have a european response that is really european. the commission will also ensure that member states respect their commitment to pursue their national efforts in a coordinated manner. we will do so through our well-tested instruments the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs, and the stability and growth pact. we are living in extraordinary times which require extraordinary measures. the french presidency has played a crucial role in short-term crisis management, as well as in putting europe on the path towards long-term recovery and a return to sustainable growth, but much remains to be done over the coming months. i trust that by maintaining a europe of partnership between the european commission, the european parliament and the council, we will succeed, to the benefit of all europeans.
mr president of the commission, we thank you for your speech, but especially for your commitment.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you concluded your speech by saying that you tried to move europe, but europe changed you. you're not the only one. the french presidency also changed others, for example daniel cohn-bendit. when we left the élysée last week, when we met there, you had a police escort with gyrophares at our disposal and i was in the car with dany behind the police. i said to him, "look how times change! in '68 it was the police who were chasing you, today it's you running around paris, chasing the police". (applause) i would like to thank times are changing and the french presidency is changing many things too. mr president, last week the german weekly der spiegel published a portrait of you, entitled 'the omni-president'. you're right, you're a little bit of a pervasive guy. one day in paris, the next day in brussels, today in strasbourg, one day in london, even though angela wasn't invited. it is not for me to take stock of your actions in paris, because it is not for me to discuss social imbalances or media policy, it is for my colleagues in paris to discuss them. on the other hand, it is for me to discuss, to speak and to take stock of your presidency of the european union, and this is not a bad record at all. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i believe that the french presidency can draw a positive conclusion. yes, the climate package is a great success! i am grateful to you for paying tribute to the european parliament, which is right, because without this parliament this success would not have been possible. i would also like to thank our reporters and reporters expressly: in contrast to the commission with its 22,000 officials, in contrast to the large government apparatus which it has, our reporters have three, four or five employees. the quality of the work delivered is first class, because it comes from the european parliament! good, that you have recognized that. (beifall) the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. this is a success of my group because we as the social democratic group have made great efforts to ensure that there is a balance between the economic necessities which we cannot ignore and the ecological obligations which we must meet. i believe that the criticism that we are just on the side that you have described, einfahren, shows that we are on a good, correct way. therefore our group will also in large measure support this package. i hope, dear joseph, that the epp-fraktion will also do so. or should we fear that now that the amendment is coming, the ets emissions trading system will be postponed? we understand in the last days a bit better, was evp-ed heißt. the european parliament can still be translated, but the european parliament seems to mean european diffusity. entscheidet euch, was ihr wollt! (decide for yourself, what you want) wollt ihr sarkozy loben, but nicht unterstützen, oder wollen ihr at the end of this package with us together veracedi? we are eager to see how the epp will vote. i would add that the first reading agreement is an exception. we are not going to allow the next council to come and say: "you have made the climate package so beautiful". if you have made it clear that the first lesson is a means of pressure to bring a stubborn head of state or head of government to reason, that is fine in this case. but not for all other cases as a precedent solution. you did the right thing in the financial crisis. but let me say again in erinnerung, was mein freund poul nyrup rasmussen and i have said yesterday at the beginning of your presidency, at the debate in july. we said: the social inequalities in europe as a result of the false distribution of wealth and income are a ticking time bomb. the french presidency has said: 'this is not our highest priority.' over the course of the last six months, you have seen that this is an obvious priority. because you did the right thing. if you had acted sooner, you would have been old of them, but you must have prevented them today. also gut gemacht, aber vielleicht ein wenig zu spät! (it's also well done, but perhaps a little too late.) we have not heard the treaty of lisbon, and now we have heard what the council has decided. we must live with it, we must accept it. but all that which you have decided on the commission, on the seats in parliament, on the concessions to the irish people, will do us no good if a head of government, a government in ireland, does not speak and the people of the island say: 'look what happened to you!' look at the solidarity of europeans, of european states with ireland and imagine what it would have been like if ireland had been left to manage this financial crisis alone! if the head of government in ireland does not say to his people: 'jetzt müsst ihr in eurem eigenen interesse in solidarität mit den europäern zusammenarbeiten!' then that will again become nothing. then we deliver the whole european project to these people, to this herr ganley and his machenschaften aus. we need a silent irish government which does not negotiate any real compromise but says: 'we want europe, we want this treaty!' (beifall) the french presidency was a success! i congratulate you on everything because you have declared yourself pro-european, because you have said: "i stand for this european project". sometimes in the past i had my doubts. i know many reasons for them. you have as president shown: you stand by them, as you said at the beginning. if the next presidency does that, i'll be happy. thank you very much! they have done old things, but they forgot us today. i believe that the european presidency has continued to bring europe forward and that is why it is doing so. it is not just france, but europe as a whole, and the balance is good. thank you very much! (heftiger beifall) i 'm not going to do that .
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm sorry to take up your time. i have come to the personal statement because of what mr farage said. he's still in the room, thank god, so i can answer him. he usually leaves right after his speeches, but he's still here. i note: firstly, i have never made the claim that the no would lead to any kind of fascism. i never have! that statement you made there is simply and poignantly false. secondly, mr cohn-bendit, mr watson and myself, president pöttering and brian crowley were participants in a discussion at the prague castle. (interruption of the debate) who's that? the commission has already taken a number of decisions. in this conversation, we were not told beforehand that the conversation would be recorded on tape. each of us in this chamber had to assume that we were having a confidential conversation, as the conference of group leaders did last week in the elysée palace with mr sarkozy. we have found the contents of this conversation, which were published by president klaus without our knowledge, in the czech press. i do not know what system this fits into, certainly not a democratic state governed by the rule of law.
the report also states that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. but we do not want to escalate the situation, which is why i have not spoken publicly about this. but the transcript of the conversation was incomplete and therefore not accurate.
president of the council. - mr president, the french presidency has appreciated the constant support of your group all the more because it has not been so easy, within your group itself, to arbitrate, to find compromises and to get everyone to agree on a reasonable and credible political line. i am well aware of the role you have played, mr president, and that is a decisive asset for us. i must also say that your group, in supporting the lisbon treaty, has a coherent vision of europe, a strong europe with stable institutions and a presidency for two and a half years which will be devoted exclusively to the presidency of europe. i think these are common sense ideas which will make it possible to give concrete results to all those of us, mr daul, and to your group, who want a europe which protects, which prepares for the future, and not a europe which is anxious and frivolous about the future. in any case, you should know that the constant support of your group has been decisive for the presidency and for the results we have achieved. mr president, it takes courage to talk to someone who is not a member of your political family. when we met with president daul and you, we said to ourselves at the beginning that it would not be so easy, because there is the prospect of the european elections which will inevitably set things in motion. i must say that you and your group have been a demanding partner for us, for the presidency, mr president, and who can blame you for defending your ideas in a demanding manner? on a personal level, i have had a great deal of pleasure in working with you, but at the same time i have been inspired whenever i have been able to listen to president daul's advice or yours, because i know full well that we would not have achieved these results if we had not worked together. i will tell mr cohn-bendit that it takes a lot more courage to take one step towards the other than to sit in your seat and curse. courage is in the one who builds, not in the one who accuses. president schulz and president daul have enabled us to build europe, to move it forward. there are others here who have accompanied us, but they do not share our views. i want to say to mrs de sarnez, for example, that i appreciated her support for us; this does not detract from the convictions of both mr schulz and mrs de sarnez. that is simply what european civilization is all about: reasonable men and women of good will trying to get things done. you did not choose me, mr schulz, i did not choose you, but our duty was to work together, and we did, and i would like to tell you that in this respect it will be a great experience for me. moreover, it is possible to change europe, and we must continue. you said i had travelled a lot, but when you are president of the council, if you do not like travelling, you should pass because the only way, it seems to me, to bring europe closer to the citizens is for the european citizens, for the europeans to see that those who are temporarily in charge of the institutions come, talk, and that we put a face on these institutions. i think, you see, mr president schulz, that i have felt during my visit, particularly to dublin, but also when i was in gdańsk, warsaw and elsewhere, that what europe is lacking is not so much institutions as faces. we must be able to say to ourselves that europe is not just an institutional monster whose identity we do not know, but people with their weaknesses. it's not about personalizing things, of course, it's not about making progress. but perhaps we have gone too far in the impersonal nature of each other's responsibilities. finally, i would like to say something, which you may find naive, but i have thoroughly enjoyed this work and i think that european officials should enjoy what they do. how can we make people love europe if we ourselves do not like what we do? in france i had the opportunity to tell one of my ministers that the european parliament was extremely important, that europe was extremely important. but if we ourselves are not happy, proud, passionate about what we do - as you are each other - how can you expect europeans to be passionate about europe? finally, there was a way of building europe that was a little distant, a little technocratic, as they say. but what is technocratic is not knowing the technique, it is never putting feelings. europe deserves, it seems to me, to be touched. in any case, i appreciate your appreciation, we could have argued, mr president schulz, we added up. you haven't given up your beliefs in any way, and i haven't given up mine. we have simply shown that, in order to build, we need each other, and this will remain for me a great moment of democracy. mr president, the last time i remember you told me about carla, i was very happy to hear that. today you told me about angela. you are a man of taste, mr. watson. i appreciate your references! (laughter) (applause) i have to say that i have enjoyed working with president watson, who is a very demanding man. i appreciate your conscientiousness, your knowledge of your files, and your precision. i had to make compromises, you said they were reasonable. i am not the one who is going to argue in front of the european parliament that compromises have been made. who in europe can say that he comes to the council table, does not listen to the others and leaves having obtained satisfaction in everything? the only question is not the question of compromise, it is part of the european construction. the only question is, is he reasonable? i realize that i have omitted - and i apologize for that - to mention one subject: vat. it is strange, however - and i am speaking under the supervision of president barroso - that when a country wants to reduce vat on all products, it can do so by a completely unilateral decision. but when a country wants to lower vat on one category of goods, it has to wait for all the others to agree. understand me, mr watson, i just want to try to put each of us in front of our responsibilities. what european citizen can understand that? i have not judged the decision of gordon brown, who is a head of government whom i like and who has been of extraordinary help in the fight against the financial crisis, but he decides, for his country, to lower vat. the european citizens as a whole - everyone can have their own opinion on this - are looking at this and are questioning their own governments. when any of us wants to lower vat on a single product, we have to say to the same european citizens: 'excuse us, we need unanimity!' i'm telling you, this rule can't last. the rule must be the same for all. and i say to the commission, i do not think it is reasonable to keep unanimity. we have the right to have ideas, and don't be scared every time there's a new idea. i've been asked by president watson to go all the way and say things. we have proposed a decision to the council together with president barroso. it is important, because we have been talking about the problems of reduced vat rates for three years. we have decided - and this is an agreement which i proposed with chancellor merkel - to stop talking about it and to take a decision next march, during the ecofin. i think it's a reasonable agreement, we have to decide now. there's the whole clean-up thing. i would like to say, mr president watson, that it is not reasonable for clean products to cost more than polluting products, and that if countries want to apply a reduced vat rate to promote environmentally high quality construction, to promote cars that pollute less, to promote environmentally friendly products, we must be able to do so. i would like to say one thing, namely that the vat on dark chocolate is a reduced rate, and that on milk chocolate it is a vat of 19.6%. who can understand anything? i feel a regret since i prefer chocolate to milk to dark chocolate, i speak naturally for myself. the situation of books and cultural products is worse. europe would do well to talk more about culture and sport. as far as cultural products are concerned, the vat on books - and this is a very good decision - is 5.5 per cent. who can understand that the vat on videos and on discs is 19.6%? they are cultural products, soon they will no longer sell videos - they will be pirated - or records in europe. we have every interest in opening ourselves to the problems of culture. the same reasoning applies to employment services. i hope that the finance ministers at the ecofin council in march will hear the message from the heads of state and government. a word, mr president watson, on the number of commissioners. i'll give you my opinion. the fact that the commission has 24 commissioners, 27 commissioners, and tomorrow 33 commissioners, does not change the case. i am convinced that the president of the commission will have to be given more power when he arrives. i'm giving you a personal opinion. why would you do that? because only the president of the commission can give a common doctrine to all the commissioners facing different situations in the same market. i would add one last point. it seemed to me unreasonable to explain to the member states that we would have a president elected for two and a half years, so that the presidency of the council would remain but be virtual every six months, and that at the same time a european commissioner per country would be withdrawn from them. i do not think that this strengthens the commission, so it is a compromise which i have negotiated and proposed all the more readily because i believe it is useful for the future. i would like to thank the president-in-office for his kind words. it's always weird with you! you're a polite person, tolerant, sympathetic when you meet in private, when you're invited to lunch, you understand the other's argument. you know, you want to see it again, and as soon as there's a tv camera under your nose, you feel like you're going crazy. the same man we understand in private... (applause) i would like to thank you. and i want to say to the audience watching us, "don't believe a word of the images you've just seen: daniel cohn-bendit is much better than that, he doesn't look like the caricature he just gave". i will tell you why, mr president cohn-bendit, because i have known you for a long time. we talk on the phone a lot. you've had lunch at the élysée three times. i didn't put the bikers on so you wouldn't be late for your next appointment. you have not refused them, which shows that you are capable of adopting the republican system, but above all, mr president cohn-bendit, you are a true european when you speak of europe. but when you speak as you spoke to me, you are not european because extreme is not european, because extreme is the opposite of europe. you remain the person we love and know, which is why i can say to mr schulz: 'you see, i was able to change europe a little bit, not daniel cohn-bendit'. (applause) i would like to thank mrs. muscardini, thank you for your support. i would also like to say that, after speaking of germany, which supported us, and of great britain, i appreciated the support of italy, which was not so obvious, for the energy-climate package, and i am speaking under the supervision of the president of the commission. there were initial positions from a number of countries, and i must say that the italian government and mr berlusconi made it easier for us at the last european council. i say this because it is the truth, not to take a position for this or that. i say this because in order to build a consensus in europe, everyone must be assured that they are not being considered in terms of national struggles but in terms of the european interest. you are quite right, mrs muscardini, the real economy must now become our priority, and we shall see, throughout 2009, whether we need to do more than we have decided, depending on the severity of the crisis and on a number of industrial sectors. mr wurtz, i have enjoyed our contacts and particularly your support for the right to make policy in europe. and, basically, to make politics in europe, to give europeans political choices again, while respecting tolerance and openness towards each other, but that is what was missing. politics must be back in europe! what is politics? it's about making choices! it is not to put people in front of the only choice, and this allows me, in replying to mr wurtz, to bring up what mr farage said. we must be clear! there is a country that refused lisbon. we hear that refusal, we try to understand it and respond to it. you say be careful, it's almost dictatorial. but would it not be dictatorial for one country to impose on the other 26 a situation, a policy that they would not want? (applause) i would like to thank i have found myself, mr farage, and i say this to mr wurtz, in the same situation in france. france had rejected the constitution by 55 percent. france had to make an effort to come back. what effort? i made a commitment during the campaign - i was the only one among the candidates - not to organise a referendum. i take political responsibility for this, i am committed to the lisbon treaty. how can it be said that it would be almost fascist to ask our irish friends to vote again? but what about the other 26 countries that have ratified the treaty, some of them also by referendum, and which should, from this point of view, withdraw? the truth is that europe needs ireland. we are 27 and we want to bring the 27 on the lisbon treaty. now each one of us has to face his responsibilities. if the irish want a european commissioner, then there is lisbon, because with nice there will be no european commissioner for everyone. if the irish people understood the situation well, it was because they were, i think, happy that the whole of europe was standing by ireland when the financial storm was about to sweep ireland away, and very happy that the president of the commission found a solution - it was not so easy - when in the first instance the irish government went so far as to guarantee all banks, all the products of the banks, omitting for a moment that foreign banks established in ireland were to be treated in the same way as irish banks, which were also established in ireland. i think the crisis, from this point of view, is forcing public opinion to think. mr. wurtz, we can't be alone in the turmoil. i think it is important that the irish vote again, and i will fight with all my strength alongside the irish government to get them to say 'yes'. if they were to say no, it is a political choice they would assume; but will the other 26 have to give up their ambitions? it is a subject we would have to debate, however, if we were in that situation. finally, mr farage, i should like to say that i have approved of president pöttering's courageous and reasonable approach to president klaus. everyone wants to be respected, but to be respected, one must also respect others and one is sometimes a little surprised by certain statements made by the president of a large country of the european union. i understand perfectly well that he wants to be respected, but frankly, for the europeans here, we were hurt when we saw that all the european flags were strictly removed from public buildings in this great country of the czech republic. it was not in anyone's interest to do so and i am glad that prime minister topolánek has the courage not to be swept along by these trends. president pöttering and the group chairmen can in any case count on the full support of the presidency. that is not the way to treat group chairmen, that is not the way to treat the president of the european parliament, that is not the way to treat the symbols of europe, and whatever else his political commitment may be, that does not exist and should not exist. (applause) i would like to thank finally, mr gollnisch, you say that europe is inadequate, that is a constant position, and i of course respect it, but you see that the states, too, are inadequate when they are alone in their own corner. if each of us had decided on our own to support our banks, we would not have supported any bank. none, for a very simple reason, that the european banks have pooled the credit and pooled the risk. if each of us had said, "we can do it ourselves", the whole system would have been swept away without any chance of support, success or peace. of course, it is up to the states to make the decisions because it is the states that vote on their budgets, but these decisions had to be taken in a coordinated way. and i will end with this: europe is strong when it is supported by strong and responsible states, and because these states are strong, they are willing to compromise in the name of the european interest. the big mistake is to think that to have a strong europe, we need weak states. i believe that strong states are needed to build a strong europe because only the strong are capable of reaching out and making compromises. only the weak are sectarian and withdraw into themselves. i think that this lesson from the crisis should be of use to us. and i will end with this, which means that the big countries in europe do not have more rights than the smaller countries, but they may have more responsibilities. what has not worked in recent years is that the big countries have wanted to apologize and, in some cases, not take on the responsibilities that they were supposed to take on. and in the crisis, it is not only the presidency that has taken its responsibilities, but all the major countries have taken theirs, we all have the same rights but some have more duties than others. i say this because i believe it to be the deepest conviction of my european citizens.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, i should like to make a few brief comments. first of all, as regards the ambition of the package: i would like to stress that the ambition of the climate package, which the commission has presented, is retained in the final compromise approved by the european council. there have been some concessions in the objectives. these concessions were necessary to meet certain demands from certain member states, but we succeeded, and i think that should be welcomed, because it was not obvious when we consider the situation of economic and financial crisis. we have succeeded, i repeat, in maintaining the ambition of the 20% target for 2020. moreover, as you are probably aware, the historic decision of the european union was welcomed by the secretary-general of the united nations, by the poznań conference, and i would therefore like to suggest that europe does not once again experience masochism. we are now the world leaders in this field. no other country, no other region of the world, whether it's the americans, latin americans, asians, has done anything like this or anything like this. so if anyone wants to ask for more, we can do so by asking others to follow the european example, not by calling into question an agreement which is really an example for the rest of the world. of course, the commission has presented an ambitious package, we knew that from the beginning, but i can say that in the spirit of compromise we have managed to maintain these great objectives of the climate package. as regards the economic recovery and the economic recovery plan, in relation to the united states, some statements that have been made need to be corrected. the truth is, the americans have not shown anything so far. there are ideas circulating. we'll see what else is on the table. let me also say that when it comes to economic and monetary policy, it is not certain that the americans can give us the best suggestions. we are convinced that this crisis, apart from financial issues, has had some fundamental macroeconomic imbalances at its origin. us monetary and fiscal policy was unrealistic for the month. i would therefore like to warn against the idea that could come - i can already see it coming - that we should do exactly as the americans do. we are not in the same situation and i think that a little caution would be useful if we also think in terms of medium and long-term sustainability. that said, as the president of the european central bank has also said to the european council, in europe we can expect at least 1.2% of our gdp to be the effect of automatic stabilisers. this means that if you add the role of economic stabilisers to the 1.5% adopted by the european council, we are not so far from the intentions announced - and i say well announced - by the president-elect of the united states. in any case, i wholeheartedly support greater coordination with the americans in the economic field. it is clear - these were the conclusions of the g20 - that a global effort is needed to revive the global economy. this crisis has shown how interdependent our economies are today. that is why we have proposed a common agenda for globalisation, so that we can work to revive the economy, also in the atlantic area. as regards the question of the commission and the role of the commission in the institutions, i should like to state my views clearly. i am one of those who believe that in europe we are not stronger because others are weaker, and i think it is a fundamental error on the part of some analysts and some of my european friends, and i say this quite frankly, on the part of those who are most convinced among europeans, to think that the role of the commission suffers when there is a strong presidency of the council. it's the exact opposite. i can tell you now, with the experience i have of having worked with nine different council presidencies. if anyone thinks that parliament is stronger because the commission is weaker, or that the commission is stronger because the council is weaker, he is radically mistaken. first of all, it's a small vision. and i don't subscribe to that vision. on the other hand, the european union today is so complex, with 27 member states with such different priorities, that only a spirit of partnership and mutual reinforcement will enable the european institutions to achieve results. that is why, for example, on climate change, these were proposals that the commission had already made a few years ago. of course, it is in our interest to have a strong presidency of the council which is able to reach consensus with the member states. of course, the action, the initiative and the work of the european parliament on this matter are important. i do believe that some people need a paradigm shift. we are in a situation where the institutions must assert their authority, their leadership role, not by diminishing the role of the other institutions but, on the contrary, by strengthening the capacity to find positive compromises, compromises that advance the european idea. in conclusion, and in relation to certain statements by certain czech politicians, let me simply say that when someone draws a comparison between the soviet union and the european union, he points to three things. first, he doesn't understand what the soviet union was; secondly, he does not understand what the european union is. thirdly, he has a very poor idea of democracy and the principles of democracy, in particular freedom and solidarity, which are our european principles. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you very much, bernard poignant. you almost have to ask if they would not accept a commission to participate in the government.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. if even mr schulz attests to the goodness of the presidency, then it must have been a brilliant presidency. the socialists have not yet shown themselves to be excessive admirers of president sarkozy. i would like to assure you, mr president sarkozy, on behalf of the epp group, that you have indeed had an excellent and very successful presidency. you have acted decisively and successfully in the two crises of this year. they have given the european union more political weight and more prestige in the world. you have undoubtedly won back a measure of the citizens' confidence and you have also been able to demonstrate the healthy stabilizing effect of our common currency, the euro, at this time. in short, you are, to our great fortune, the right man at the right time in the right place. i wish we could make that determination after the next presidency. the council has been successful with the climate package. but we should be aware that this is a decision that will take place far into the future, and that its full effects will be felt when hardly anyone in charge is still in office and can bear the consequences. we will have to make a difficult trade-off between the climate policy objectives which we fully support and the inevitable burden we must impose on the economy. if mr schulz asks the epp to take this decision, we will of course take it, but we will try to read what is to be decided beforehand. if you made the decision yesterday, you can't have even read the texts. you've decided to go blind left! and as regards your criticism of the first reading agreement - my colleague mr cohn-bendit also shed crocodile tears - i fully share that criticism. but who forced us to do this? has the council blocked us in the process? has the commission been blackmailing us? it was the majority of parliament that decided that! in the conference of presidents, only joseph daul voted for a first reading, which would have been an orderly procedure. i hope we can draw the conclusion from this that we will not accept first reading agreements in future, at least for such crucial projects!
i am not going to go into detail. president sarkozy is about to leave us. i am not going to go into the details of the matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the eu has done a great deal in recent months. this is also your merit, the merit of the french presidency! i would have liked to thank president sarkozy personally for being uncomfortable when he told the german chancellor in clear words what he thought of the lethargy of the federal government; the other europeans are acting to prevent the crisis, but germany is waiting until the crisis is over or until the next elections to the bundestag. germany is the largest economy in the eu, and so it is good that the eu partners have reminded the german government of its responsibility. president sarkozy has just done it again here. if the eu had not already existed, it would have had to be invented at the latest in response to the financial crisis. no eu country on its own would have been or is able to do anything about the crisis. the euro is also a crucial anchor of stability. the importance of the common market for prosperity and stability in europe has once again been demonstrated. the financial crisis must not be used as an excuse to jeopardize what we have achieved together. the independence of the european central bank must therefore not be open to negotiation. we must not allow a return to protectionism, and a renewed policy of isolation or a race for subsidies between the eu countries would have disastrous consequences for the citizens. the eu's competition and aid rules must not be relaxed under any circumstances, nor must the stability pact with its maastricht criteria. these achievements must be preserved, but the eu must act together, in concert and with determination, to avert the worst. this is an opportunity for europe. president sarkozy has used them. he has shown the citizens what europe can do and has given europe a face. thank you very much.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! i think that if we can draw a conclusion, it was a really successful french presidency. mr borloo, i remember that at the beginning i was very sceptical about the feasibility of this ambitious programme. even though i don't agree with all the parts, the result is really good. france has done an excellent job with its civil servants, with its ministers, and this applies not only to the president but to all those involved. that is commendable. we have had discussions here. mr rasmussen has attacked angela merkel. we all know that conventional short-term programmes are a waste of money, increase public debt and have no long-term effect. mr rasmussen has opened the campaign here, but he has forgotten that the german finance minister is called steinbrück and is a socialist. he is the one who insists that no further economic programmes should be set up at the moment, because the scale of the crisis is still too great to be grasped. on the contrary, it is necessary that the member states adhere to budgetary discipline and that they comply with the stability and growth pact. i did not understand the french president's proposals on these issues, because he simply wanted to scrap the stability and growth pact in order to show his activism. it is therefore right that some heads of state and government have tried to stop the french president's unbridled drive to act in europe from being put into perspective. our strength is that we - in times of crisis, in times of government action - slow down in europe, that we debate in the european parliament, that we do not rush things, that we fully accept the identity of the member states, their history and their different political structures. that is the triumph. the package as a whole is good and the thanks to the french presidency are fully justified. mr minister, please send this to all the institutions. thank you very much.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good news that the ratification process for lisbon is moving forward with the second referendum and we may get this treaty after eight years in 2009. the bad news is that we're paying a high price, i mean, at one point, too high a price. the commission's reform is dead for the time being. the reform of the commission was part of a package of institutional reforms. i mean, in a few years, what's decided here will be a boomerang. if the seven countries of the former yugoslavia join the eu, the former yugoslavia will have more commissioners than the six largest member states in the eu. there's a balance that's been broken. this issue is only postponed, not resolved. i also miss guidance on this issue. the council presidency has failed - as has the commission presidency - to set limits in time. we can see from the opponents that they are not satisfied; they will invent new topics. the point now is to really launch a communication campaign and not to leave the second referendum to the populists. this is the job!
mr president, madam vice-president, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to thank you for your reply. two events have shown that europe can play a role and have an influence. in georgia it was the europeans who stopped the war, and in the financial crisis it was the europeans who forced the rest of the world to agree and negotiate through the g8 and g20 in arrangements so that such a thing will not be possible in the future. but can we leave it to the fortunate chance in the future to have the active presidency of a large country? because france and president sarkozy have done it in an excellent way. i think we need a more stable institutional background for it to work in the future. that is why the ratification of the treaty of lisbon is so important for many reasons, and this is the third occasion on which i would like to congratulate the french presidency on reaching an agreement to propose solutions on the basis of what the irish parliament has worked out on the declarations, or what will be called the commissioner's question, and many others. i think it is now up to ireland to respond positively to this. as some of us have said, these things - particularly in the commissioner's question - have not been easy for many of us. but i think there are other ways to achieve efficiency. it is also important to note that: the reaction of the opponents of the lisbon treaty shows that, having been deprived of the arguments of the first referendum, they are inventing new ones. that is to say, they are not friends of europe who want a better europe, but they are against european unification as a whole and they are always looking for new arguments to achieve this goal. this should be enough incentive to move forward and finish this. i am sure that the czech presidency - which will be the first presidency of the council from a former warsaw pact country - will approach this with a special sense of responsibility and, in cooperation with our french and swedish friends, will bring it to a successful conclusion.
in writing. the commission is not 'europe came together' was the main message that nicolas sarkozy had just delivered to the french presidency of the council. he has undoubtedly set the pace of the dynamic, which has clearly contributed to the success of this half-year. i welcome his meeting with the dalai lama at the nobel peace prize laureates' meeting in gdansk, poland, as president of the eu council. we in the european parliament witnessed his holiness in brussels two weeks ago when the dalai lama spoke before the plenary. with a fasting action that gathered over 500 signatures, as well as tibetan scarves, we documented our solidarity with the dalai lama and the tibetan people. we support his middle-ground approach, his ability to dialogue and his unwavering non-violence. he has always been in favour of tibetan autonomy and has never been in favour of separatism imposed on him by the chinese. the council, the commission and parliament have agreed in recent months that: there is no alternative to this path. my question is: what will the europeans do after beijing cancels the official eu-china talks? how can the council finally succeed in involving china in the implementation of human rights? the government there is trying to belittle human rights as 'western values' rather than integrating them into its policies.
we will now sign, together with the council, the acts on the erasmus mundus action programme to improve the quality of higher education and to promote intercultural understanding through cooperation with third countries. mr le maire, the minister responsible for european affairs, mr ján figel, the commissioner responsible for the whole erasmus programme, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament! it is a great pleasure to be signing today, together with the council, an important decision which allows the erasmus mundus programme to be extended. this is the culmination of the determined work we have done together with the council and the commission. i would like to express my sincere thanks to mr ján figel for having pushed this programme forward and thus enabled us to seal it today by signing it together between the council and parliament. this public signing will help to highlight the importance of european legislation for european citizens. the erasmus mundus programme is an extension of the original erasmus programme of the commission, which was established 21 years ago. this programme gives students from all over the world the chance to study in the european union and plays an important role in promoting european higher education as a symbol of academic excellence. with increased funding nearly eur 950 million for five years , the european union is now in a position to meet the growing demand for the erasmus mundus programme. this will enable us to continue to support joint programmes in europe with scholarships for the most talented students and professors from third countries. we will also extend the scope of the programme to doctoral studies, thus enabling us to provide even more financial support to european students. this programme will make participants, and above all students, true ambassadors of openness and intercultural dialogue; they will contribute to better cooperation and mutual understanding throughout the world. in conclusion, i would like to thank the french presidency, the commission and the members of the committee on culture and education - i am delighted to have mrs batzeli here - and all the members of the committee, including the rapporteur, marielle de sarnez, who have worked hard on this important piece of legislation. i now ask mr le maire to sign the document with me and i ask commissioner figel to take over the supervision of it. (the president signed the minutes) (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, mr farage said this morning that i had said in this house: 'no leads to fascism'. in previous times martin schulz has stood up and said that a no vote will lead to fascism. i never said that! i will never do that! and i want to make that clear once and for all. i do not believe that the 'no' of any people - say, the irish people - leads to fascism. i don't think he is. that settles it once and for all. but i do believe that the intuition must be there in all of us that playing with the feelings of people who are threatened by fears of social disrepute becomes dangerous whenever it gets into the hands of arsonists. i don't know if any of you are arsonists. i hope not. but i know these arsonists exist. and one thing you can be sure of, mr farage, is that i will fight people like you and your politics until i can't fight anymore.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not i would like to say first of all that the epp-ed group will support this negotiated compromise. we negotiated hard, claude turmes did a lot of work. we had 1500 amendments in the committee on industry with the opinions, and he was so inventive that he kept coming up with new proposals. we have nevertheless managed to get along well and i would like to thank in particular the french negotiator, the responsible ambassador, mr léglise-costa, who has maintained the necessary calm and clarity during these very difficult negotiations - after all, there have been ten rounds of negotiations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. commissioner dimas said: 'yes, accept the overall package, even if you do not like some of the points. the proposal that came from the house of piebalgs was really useful. in this respect we have been able to negotiate on a good basis and have not had to change much, unlike some other dossiers which we will be debating. on this basis, we can work together to advance renewable energy, commit member states to developing advanced technologies and thus achieve our common goal of at least 20% renewable energy by 2020. the only point i do not like very much about the overall compromise is the commission's proposal to use flexible instruments. the council and parliament have been slow in this respect. i would have preferred that we had opened up new possibilities in the member states. but despite these reservations on this one point, my group fully endorses the package. i would like to thank mr claude turmes, the french presidency and the commission.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work. dear claude, thank you very much. this directive now offers a great opportunity to give new impetus to the necessary energy transition in europe. we know that the dramatically accelerating pace of climate change requires a clear focus on renewable energy, on energy efficiency. the compromise we have today with the council is a very good result. the threat to successful national support schemes posed by the commission's proposed trading in allowances has been removed. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling of foodstuffs for human consumption is a good one. the ep has significantly improved the ecological criteria for biofuels and added social criteria. so thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the whole delegation for this result.
i have to say, madam president, the compromise on the emissions trading system, which will be put to the vote tomorrow, clearly bears the signature of the european parliament. the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs have made sure of that. i would like to thank you very much for that. the review of the emissions trading system and the overall climate package are the most ambitious and far-reaching package of measures to protect the world's climate ever launched. we can be proud of that. we should not minimize this success, but stop and breathe. but we must not rest on what we have achieved, what we are voting on tomorrow, but we must look closely at how the climate is changing and what economic consequences this will have for us. that is why i am asking the commission to launch a sort of star report for the european union, to look closely at the financial consequences of climate change for the european union and the measures we must take in the future to overcome this global crisis.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i do not think we have been very successful in explaining the real significance of this whole package. many people think we were trying to punish industrial policy. it is about changing the co2 policy and especially the sustainability policy in this world. you need resources for that! it's painful, but if we don't have these resources, we can't address the world's big carbon sinks -- and they do exist, you can't talk away -- can't address them. there are instruments for this, and i am not very happy with them, nor with the result. but i'm still going to agree. carbon leakage is a gateway to a liberation. but that does not mean that the industry which we think will be freed from will actually be freed from the commission! the same applies to the benchmark system. mr president, with all due respect and respect, including to mrs doyle, we must be very careful that our commission does not become the godfather of economic policy in europe in the future. this can never be left alone in an institution! i have therefore my doubts, but i would like to endorse the report because, in retrospect, it is not just about co2 but about sustainability. it is not discussed enough in this house! we are squandering the resources of our children in a miserable way, and we are endangering this planet. this must be converted into a new policy of industrial society. this is an opportunity! if we complain that parliament has not been able to bring in enough competence here, then that is right. but, my dear social democratic friends, you have decided against us by a majority in the conference of presidents. we wanted a different procedure and the council could certainly have been involved. so if you have a complaint, please make it to the right place. in the end, i cannot imagine that there is a smarter proposal and a majority to match it. that's why we should agree!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the epp-ed group welcomes the agreement reached by the council and parliament in the trilogue not to extend the new rules of the revision of the general emissions trading system to aviation but to leave it to the new, not even published, specific rules for aviation. the specific ets rules for aviation, agreed by parliament and the council in the summer and to be applied as from 1 january 2012, are the first rules in the world to include aviation in an emissions trading system and thus to oblige airlines to limit the environmental impact of aviation. that's right, you're right. the consequences, namely the costs for airlines, airports and ultimately passengers, who are in a global competition, are just beginning to be felt as a result of the regulations we adopted in the summer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's air transport market is not affected by the introduction of new rules. we are very grateful to you, parliament and the council. it is also right, because with the specific ets rules for air transport we have the chance to negotiate very similar arrangements with third countries and thus avoid global conflicts. the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. in fact, global solutions, or at least partial solutions, for a sensible environmental protection of air transport in the world are always better than overly strict regulations that apply only in the eu. we are very satisfied with that. you know, in 2014, the special scheme for ets in aviation is on the test bench anyway. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs doyle, and the french presidency - if you will listen - for excluding air transport. it was the right decision, and it will move us forward. thank you very much.
in writing. - madam president, the agreement on the climate package is a modest achievement. the eu has set itself a reduction target of 20% compared with 1990. we've already achieved almost half of that. keyword eastern enlargement, where emissions are lower in absolute terms. the target of a 12% reduction compared with 1990 remains. the eu is allowed to achieve three to four per cent of the reduction in developing countries, leaving just under nine per cent. the targets may be missed by up to 5%. that leaves four percent. normally, at this point, you would say: well, lucky for you, the eu has decided not to export its economy entirely to asia. the compromise is much cheaper than the commission's proposal. that's what allows the fdp to approve. the eu is now playing its own member states against each other: through the energy mix, derogations and clever negotiation, some member states have an advantage over others. german energy suppliers may soon be able to produce electricity in poland instead of at home, if they are not bought by the french. the fact that eu countries are engaged in such a cow trade does not bode well for a global agreement. the question of the efficiency of the means also arises. governments, the council and the european commission are called upon to ensure efficiency in environmental protection as well as in economic growth.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should first like to thank the rapporteur, mr davies, whose stubbornness has, i believe, finally led to success. we can say that we are really in the major contribution of the european parliament. it is true that at first the council was not unanimous on the principle, and then on the amounts. the principle was finally accepted unanimously by the member states; there was a fairly broad consensus in favour of allocating 100 million tonnes or the counterpart, or the countervalue. finally, on this subject, which, as the rapporteur said, is not a perfect or ideal solution for all time, but which, according to the first eight academies of science, is probably unavoidable, we have reached a consensus for 300 million tonnes, at least its monetary equivalent, which should allow the setting up of a dozen demonstrators, as commissioner dimas and the commission had wished. i think we are now in the process of co-decision, convergence and consensus.
member of the commission. - the mr president, the compromise agreement reached on the capture and storage of carbon dioxide is very satisfactory. i can say that it improves on the original proposal and retains all the basic provisions of the commission proposal. the text provides for strict obligations for the storage of carbon dioxide in order to ensure high levels of protection of the environment and human health, without placing an excessive administrative or financial burden on undertakings. on the question of financing, which was of particular concern to the european parliament, chris davis said that up to 300 million units of emission allowances under the emissions trading system directive would be made available from the newcomers reserve for the development of innovative carbon capture and storage technologies and for innovative renewable energy sources. this amount is expected to be sufficient for the planned construction and operation of up to 12 carbon capture and storage projects in the european union. the outcome of the negotiations on the proposed legal framework and the financing of carbon capture and storage projects will pave the way for an environmentally sound technology that has the potential to make a significant contribution to reducing carbon dioxide emissions. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr chris davis, again for his efforts to reach this compromise agreement. i would ask you to vote for this motion and i would add that my ancient ancestors said 'with athena and hand in hand!' about the prayers that mr davis asked us to say.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not the whole discussion and report on ccs is a small cog in the big wheel of the climate package, but it is a very important and essential part because ccs can be considered a transitional technology for the next 50 to 80 years. the results of the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety were generally positive. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. however, i was against setting emission limit values as early as 2015 and that is now the case. this would have meant that ccs would have been introduced before the results of the demonstration projects had even been available. if we had done that, we would have gone from coal to gas. the introduction of ccs technology - as has already been said - depends on finances. avril doyle has been a fighter in this place. i do not want to repeat the figures because they have already been mentioned. the question is, of course, when we can start, because ets does not start immediately, but only at the scheduled times. i also think it is important that high-efficiency plants that are ccs-capable can be supported by member states with 50% of the investment amount by 2016. the transfer of responsibility after closure of storage sites has now been fixed at 20 years - also a very positive situation. as has been said before: we have a representative in china who is estimated to use coal as an energy source for at least 60% of the next 50 years. in the field of technological development, india, south africa, australia, america and russia are also interested in using these technologies. this is an opportunity for europe to invest here and then to further develop this technology for the benefit of co2 reduction overall .
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. co2 is not a poison, co2 is not explosive, but co2 has an unpleasant property: when it enters the atmosphere in large quantities, it changes our climate. that is why ccs technology is important and an important bridge technology. i agree with mr hoppenstedt that this is a bridge for the next 50 to 80 years. it is not the nonplusultra, but it is part of the solution to our problems. i think we have found a good compromise, at least on the part of the link with the emissions trading system. the emissions trading system ensures that funds are made available for ccs, and ccs also ensures that we can make progress in the emissions process to reduce co2 and achieve our targets. i believe that in addition to the effort of industry to set up these demonstration plants, efforts by the member states are necessary to initiate national legislation to implement these directives. above all, it is a task for all of us, for the public and for industry, to educate, to take the fear of ccs from people. ccs is not a dangerous technology, it's a helpful technology.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to recall a theme from the world climate conference in poznan, because it seems absurd to me that the commitment shown here to promote a technology that does not yet work. at the same time, if we were to tackle the massive deforestation in the countries of the south, we would have enormous opportunities to capture co2 - much greater than we could ever achieve with ccs. to stop deforestation and the clearing of the rainforests, that would have to be done with a lot more commitment if we want to capture co2 than we are doing in this eurocentric ccs debate!
president of the council. - mr president, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr sacconi, very sincerely, because this is a difficult subject, and the current, real and serious industrial and social crisis in europe has not diminished the seriousness of the subject. we are also touching on something which is basically quite emblematic of our urban modes, our modes of transport, our ways of life, our industry, our society, and so it was an impossible bet on a subject, moreover, where there are many consumer countries and few producers, in reality. so it was very complex. the commission had already done this very difficult job, as far as possible, in the first place. the rapporteur and parliament have adjusted this art as much as possible and i believe that with the prospect of the 95 grams, the details of which will be reviewed in 2013 but which are now clearly displayed, manufacturers now have visibility and they will be able to incorporate technology to achieve this in 2020. the actual emissions from the existing fleet are currently unknown. we only know the sold stock, which is not far from 160 grams. the target is 95 grams and the existing fleet is probably at over 200 grams. that's the order of magnitude of the stakes. this is a very dramatic advance indeed. i do not know what the commission will say now, but since it has carried this project from the outset with such intelligence, expertise and finesse, i have no doubt that it will all end in a consensus.
member of the commission. - the mr president, the proposed legislation on carbon dioxide and cars will for the first time set binding emission targets for the automotive industry. it is also an important means of assisting member states in achieving their emission targets under the proposal on the sharing of effort between member states. the compromise agreement reached brings a number of changes to the commission proposal. these include the gradual adoption of the targets between 2012 and 2015, a lower fine for the first 3 grams of exceedance by the manufacturer by 2018 and the provision for taking into account eco-innovations, which are not currently taken into account when measuring emissions in the test cycle. the amendments could also be seen as weakening the commission's proposal. the proposal to compromise on a long-term basis by setting a long-term target for emissions from all new cars of 95 grams per kilometre in 2020 compensates for these losses. by incorporating this target, the legislation will achieve about one third of the reductions needed in sectors outside the emissions trading system, about as much as we had originally estimated for the year 2020. the compromise reached benefits both the environment and consumers, who will save money on lower fuel bills. it will also provide manufacturers with investment stability and predictability, boost innovation and lead to greater investment in research and development. it will thus give manufacturers the advantage of initiative in global markets, where demand for green cars is expected to increase, and will thus improve the competitiveness of the european automotive industry. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr guido sacconi, for his great contribution to reaching an agreement and i hope that you will support the compromise agreement in the vote tomorrow.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. - mr president, i have to say something. on behalf of the committee on industry, i should like to thank the rapporteur, mr guido sacconi, very much. it was a good and fair negotiation and i think the result is in sight. the outcome of the trilogue reflects in essential respects what the committee on industry has called for. we have called for ambitious targets for 2020, we have called for a slow entry phasing in ; we want fair burden sharing, we want eco-innovation, we want recognition of eco-innovation, and that was also a large majority. we want to treat the niche vehicles and small series separately, and the only point on which there is still debate is the amount of the fine. i am convinced that the penalties could have been further reduced and the effect achieved. because for the first time there are binding targets, and these binding targets will create the necessary pressure. it is an ambitious programme and therefore deserves our support. if you judge all this from the green's point of view, then you have to say that they want to slaughter the cow that is supposed to give the milk. others want to milk them permanently without feeding them. we have found a reasonable compromise, and that is good!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not this part of the climate package is one of the most important parts. the automobile industry is at the heart of many of the economies of our member states. that is why this chapter had to be closed now, so that the automotive industry can concentrate on the crisis it is facing and not have to worry about the numbers it has to achieve or can achieve. we needed planning certainty, and with this package, we have planning certainty. it's a now-or-never package. it's a now-or-never decision. because if we don't get this through now, if we get to second reading now, then we won't get automotive regulation. i would like to congratulate mr sacconi on his excellent report. when he took over the coverage of this difficult part, it was not easy to find a balance, a balance. he did it. i must say that i have a great deal of respect for your work, because you have succeeded in creating incentives for industry in this report, but at the same time you have introduced penalties which are perhaps - as werner langen said - a little high, but which have achieved a paradigm shift. because that's what this is about. we cannot go on slamming the car industry by saying that it has not achieved the goals it set itself. what was it like when the car industry developed the smart, the lupo, the a2, and nobody bought them? cars in the shop window don't do any good. but now we are in a phase where it seems that the economic situation and this legislation that we are making here can achieve the transition to a new age of mobility. so i think it's not dilution, it's a paradigm shift that's coming, that we've helped shape here, and that paradigm shift is going to go down in history with the name stavros dimas. i would also like to thank the commissioner for his stubbornness, for his obstinacy, because it is this that has finally brought us to this result.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i too would like to express my appreciation to stavros dimas. he had made a very reasonable proposal. it is regrettable that the minister for the environment, mr borloo, has not supported mr dimas more strongly against the long-ago heads of state from germany and especially from italy. it was mr berlusconi and mrs merkel who made sure that we now have a directive which means that in 2012, when the provisions of this directive are exhausted, we will have a higher average emission value of the european new car fleet than today. where's the ambition? mr langen, i asked you last time to show me proof that you are capable of basic arithmetic. in any case, i conclude that this directive will not create any pressure for innovation, because, apart from a limited ambition in regulating the thresholds, it does not have proper penalties and the 2020 threshold has not been made mandatory. the crisis in which the automobile industry in europe is now found is also caused by the automobile industry itself. she's been sleeping in and sitting out the innovation pressure for decades. it has not addressed the climate change or the energy crisis, and we are failing to put constructive pressure on this again well into the next decade. my group will not be able to vote for this directive if we do not agree to the binding longterm objective tomorrow. i'm sorry, mr dimas, but it is true. we must set an example in this directive. we must ask ourselves whether europeans are really serious about their ambition to protect the climate if they do not dare to take a more active stance on fuel-eating cars and the car as a status symbol in europe than we are doing with this directive.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to express my gratitude to mr guido sacconi for his success in finding the square of the circle. if you look at what we voted on in the davies report and also in the cars 21 report, where we wanted to start this legislation in 2015, the substance of the commission proposal has been largely preserved, and there is a balance between social, environmental and economic criteria. i would also like to say that guido sacconi has introduced a good instrument with the innovation bonus. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of road haulage companies, the development of a european network of road haulage companies, the development of a european network of road haulage companies, the development of a european network of road haulage companies, and the development of a european network of road haulage companies. the vehicles have to be sold, then the bonus is granted. this will put pressure on the industry to get these vehicles to consumers quickly.
in writing. the current financial and economic crisis is posing major challenges to the german automotive and supplier industry. sales are down and many plants have stopped production by the end of the year. in germany, one in seven jobs is directly or indirectly linked to car manufacturing. an important policy objective must be to create the conditions necessary to protect jobs in germany even in times of crisis. the regulation is therefore totally untimely. i regret that the report does not provide any incentives to curb emissions. i think this is the right way to tackle climate change, even in times of economic crisis. threatening to inflict horrible punishment is not the answer. i therefore believe that a clear policy of self-interest is being pursued here to the detriment of the german economy. i am interested in promoting climate protection, but not at the expense of individual eu member states. this regulation applies not only to the german car manufacturers themselves but also to their mainly medium-sized subcontractors. the main concentration of these is in the metropolitan region of nuremberg. as a new member of the european parliament from nuremberg, i therefore do not agree with this report.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have no intention of evading our responsibilities, quite the contrary, i assure you. on several occasions, including this semester, the council has stressed the importance it attaches to the creation of an internal market in electricity and gas, the establishment of a transparent and clear regulatory framework governing investment and the operation of transmission networks and the strengthening of the role of the regulatory authorities and their cooperation. this is important and should be emphasized when, i hope, the climate and energy package is voted, especially since the completion of this internal market is a condition for the achievement of our objectives in this area. the importance which the french presidency of the union attaches to the successful completion of this package, a fundamental element of european energy policy, cannot therefore be called into question, nor can the importance of respecting the agreed deadline, namely reaching an agreement before the end of the parliamentary term. it has therefore made every effort to secure political agreement on all five texts at the council meeting on 10 october. i would remind you that despite the excellent and very thorough work of the slovenian presidency, the texts which were the subject of a general orientation, in the absence of an opinion from parliament at the council meeting on 6 june, left two essential provisions open, that concerning investments by third countries in the energy sector and that concerning conditions of fair competition. we have made every effort and succeeded in securing unanimous agreement at the october council, and i note that the commission very largely supported the terms of the october common position. the day after this agreement was reached, the presidency committed the resources of the general secretariat of the council to carry out the technical and legal work necessary to complete the 300 pages of legislation that this package represents so that the common positions could be transmitted to parliament as from december. the completion of this work as soon as possible involves the services of parliament and those of all the member states. in accordance with the information provided by the secretariat of the committee responsible in the context of the coordination of the work of the institutions and in agreement with the future czech presidency, it was decided that this common position would be transmitted to parliament in the coming days, at the beginning of january. the council, for its part, intends to close the procedures for adoption on 9 january. i need not remind you that we were also negotiating a number of packages at the same time, the one we have discussed today and the maritime transport package, which involved all the negotiators very strongly. despite the fact that it is physically impossible to start negotiations on this package, the presidency, by letter of 17 november to the president of coreper and the chair of the itre committee, indicated its readiness for a first meeting in the form of a trilogue, as you request, in order to proceed with the first exchanges. the conditions are now in place for us to devote ourselves fully to the examination of this package and to reach, we hope, an agreement at second reading by next may, which is in any case the wish of the french presidency.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank honourable members for this very timely question. it is very important that we conclude the debate on the internal energy market during this legislature. it was a very complex package of measures which was proposed; the debate this time leads up to the second-reading agreement and, as one would expect, takes into account the complex nature of these proposals. on the asset side i would say that it is very important that in the council we now have political agreement and common positions will be adopted in early january. the commission will also adopt its communication to the parliament on the common position in early january so that it will be in time for the first part-session in january. so from this point of view we are ready to come with common positions to parliament, so that parliament can take note of these positions and move into formal negotiations. the second point i would like to stress is that the forthcoming czech presidency is putting a lot of emphasis on working ambitiously to achieve results in march, or earlier if possible. they also plan trialogues. they would be happy to have one each week – they are really very ambitious, making it their first priority. thirdly i would like to thank the french presidency because, with all the workload on energy and climate change package, they have really delivered what they promised on the internal market package. it was not easy to reach a political agreement in the council; under the slovenian presidency we agreed on some main points, but some points were still shaky. now we have solid agreement in the council, and the council is ready to negotiate. next i would like to thank parliament. i would like to thank mrs niebler for her patience in the trialogues, because we reached the first agreement partly thanks to your hard work, so i apologise and i hope we will not go on into the night during the discussions on the internal energy market. however, i believe that we have good substance with which to make an agreement because all the rapporteurs are working very closely together. i hope it will not go on into the early hours. from the commission side i promise that we will work hard to find an acceptable compromise, because from the commission point of view it is crucial that the european union is strong on the internal energy market. it guarantees security of supply, it guarantees lower consumer prices, but most of all it also guarantees that all the measures we would like to propose through ets will be effective. the commission has a full interest in finding an agreement and in facilitating agreement between the european parliament and the council.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have been discussing the climate package all day today, and tomorrow the vote will take place. the forecast is that there will be a broad agreement on this climate package. that's a good thing, in the end. the whole package on climate change, the lofty objectives contained in this package, can only be achieved if we also take a big step forward in terms of network and infrastructure development. i therefore very much welcome the fact that the council reached a common position in october, which enabled us in parliament - as we had always wished - to continue our discussions swiftly. i hope the negotiations will begin soon. i am grateful to you, mr president-in-office, for having already taken the first steps. i note that the secretariats have already started to cooperate and have made preparations so that negotiations can begin here in january or february under the czech presidency. if the commission, as in so many cases, acts as a fair mediator, we will eventually reach good compromises. the council's position on this matter is, of course, very different from that of the european parliament on a number of important points. mr hökmark has already touched on the question of the separation of property rights, that is to say, whether there is an alternative. the council has taken a different position from parliament in the gas and electricity sectors. the question of the role of the agency will be one of the central issues. the council and parliament are far apart at the moment. the whole complex of consumer rights is also marked by different emphases. i am confident that there is the political will to reach an agreement on this dossier as well. if we all work together in the same constructive way as we did on the climate package, we will achieve that. i hope we don't have to do weekend sessions. i do not want to wake up at 4.40 a.m. on a saturday to discuss the climate package. i hope we can work together on this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i think it is very good that the energy market package is back on the table and i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the european parliament voted with a very, very impressive majority against the third way, as agreed by angela merkel and nicolas sarkozy, as regards the internal market in electricity. i think that should not be lost in the discussions that are now before us. i have not liked at all the way the french presidency has treated this subject like a hot potato during these six months and is now passing this hot potato on to the czech presidency. that's not a good way to handle a subject that's very important. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it has often been claimed that we could also make energy cheap. the greens have never claimed that. but we would continue to link our position to the demand that pricing and competition be fairer and that citizens have a better understanding of this. i am now expressly in favour of my group resuming the further discussions on this energy market package as soon as possible in january - i do not know what was said earlier because i was unfortunately late. because i believe that the whole energy and climate strategy cannot work and cannot be perfect if we do not develop the market in this way in accordance with the political objectives that we have formulated in the climate and energy package.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are talking today about the completion of a very rapid process of reform of the deposit guarantee directive. the whole procedure shows the ability but also the limitations of the european institutions. it was only in mid-october that the commission put forward a proposal to amend the directive, which had as much a political as an economic objective, namely to restore investor confidence in the financial market, the cross-border activities of banks and the regulation of financial markets in general. the level of coverage has been increased, the deadlines for disbursement in the event of a crisis have been reduced significantly and co-insurance has been abolished. it was unacceptable that large banks could not foresee the decline of their institution, but small investors should be involved. the commission has also taken steps to ensure that the level of protection is increased to eur 100 000 from 2010, which is 90% of deposits in europe. we as a parliament have been constructive and quick to engage in the process. we have given up many parliamentary rights, but we have moved a lot. we thought the three-day deadline was unrealistic from the start. i think that the 20 days are a promise that can be represented in reality and that will not disappoint investors. it was important to get the small businesses back in. in the context of the systemic stabilisation of the financial markets, it would have been a fatal signal to secure only private deposits. and we see - and this is particularly important - also a need for emergency payouts, because there is a very direct link between the deposit guarantee system and the stabilization measures at institutions, especially in the practical cases that we have seen in the past. the limitations we see, of course, are that such a wide-ranging subject as harmonization can be brought into such a procedure in such a short time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner. the concern of the inquiry we have linked to this is right, but we should not prejudge the outcome. the view that the expectations and political promise of member states like germany or ireland acting alone in the financial crisis and promising unlimited protection are problematic and would lead to distortions of competition in the market is only partly correct. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we must be careful, however, that maximum harmonisation does not lead to a reduction in the level of protection in individual member states and that this in turn increases distortions of competition due to the different financing of the systems. it was therefore a wise aim to formulate harmonisation on the horizon, to formulate a whole series of questions which must first be answered, because - and i said that these are the limits of the procedure - it is not without danger to discuss in a marathon nine-week process questions which we have not been able to address in europe in the last five years. i would like to thank you again for the strong interaction between the political groups in this parliament. it took some compromises. but we have managed to send the signal that was important for the stabilization of the financial markets. we have also made a substantial contribution as a parliament to making this very rudimentary draft clear and really useful. i would like to thank once again those who were willing to give up their parliamentary rights in this procedure.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would just like to repeat that, although the results are not fully satisfactory from the commission’s perspective, we would not like to delay or put at risk the compromise that provides some improvements for savers. we will have to work further on the improvement of deposit guarantee schemes. of course i commit to meeting the reporting obligations imposed in the directive by the end of 2009. these reports will look at those issues that were outlined by members here this evening. when we discuss the results of that further work and the proposals that might flow from it, it is my sincere hope that the outcome will be more ambitious. the main issue we have in mind is addressing the confidence of eu depositors for the long term.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to ask you, commissioner, quite directly, not to break the compromise we have reached in a very short time, which was nothing more than an announcement on the part of the commission, and which parliament then made a reality by finding a compromise with the council, but to communicate to the outside what it is: a very rapid reaction by the three institutions, a very far-reaching consideration in the direction of harmonizing the necessary steps, including the investigations, which are necessary to have the most direct positive impact on the citizens, namely, a foreseeable virtually full coverage of 90% of the deposit guarantee, a reduction in the time limits. we also thought of emergency payouts. i want to say it again: the compromise is not simply that three institutions or one of the three - the commission - say that this is the compromise and that we want to start the hair-splitting, but that it is a common signal. that is why we have adopted the fast-track approach. it would be politically negligent to engage in intellectual hair-splitting in public. we must communicate this positive signal, which we have achieved together with the commission, to the outside world. otherwise, in the current financial crisis, the exact opposite would be achieved of what you were strong in announcing, but what we have made possible in the first place in implementing.
the rapporteur. - the proposal for a regulation (doc. the council presidency does not seem to be in the chamber yet. the second reading of the european budget is due to take place tomorrow. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the fact that we have only a few things to vote on and even fewer to dispute is due to the good cooperation of all our colleagues, both in the special committees and in the committee on budgets. i would like to thank you very much for this cooperation. i know this is not a given, and i'm glad you're here. the same applies to the contribution of the entire budgetary committee, to the work of all the group staff and to the support provided by the personal staff. thank you very much. i would also like to thank the commission for its willingness to cooperate. she did not always communicate with us to our delight, but it was always helpful, and most importantly she spoke to me on different levels. that is not the case with the presidency. the french presidency of the council has managed to avoid speaking to me, the rapporteur-general, even once, until today. not once, not once. even a letter i wrote before the trilogue on 13 november has not been answered to this day. very strange, very unusual. the behaviour of the whole council at the conciliation meeting was neither strange nor strange. he acted as usual, the attitudes were the usual. first, under no circumstances should we allow any revision, even a minor one. secondly, we must reduce payments, even if the gap between payments and commitments becomes a gap. thirdly, the best thing to do is to start immediately with the unspent appropriations for the current financial year. after all, some €4.9 billion will flow back into the coffers of national finance ministers. we in parliament are very pleased that we have been able to persuade the commission to promise a carryover of eur 700 million for rural development. we also believe that the joint declarations on the simplification of procedures and the acceleration of the implementation of the structural funds programmes, together with the assurance that, if necessary, more funds will be proposed quickly for payments, will help us to cope with the tasks of the coming financial year. these tasks will not be small. we will all be feeling the effects of the financial crisis and its consequences for the real economy in our member states. we are therefore quite prepared to provide funds to create or maintain jobs, funds to stimulate the economy - in addition to the european union's already existing toolbox. we are prepared to do whatever is necessary at the earliest possible moment. i am not blind, of course, but if we are clear about the projects for which the funds are to be made available and how useful they are, no one will be in our midst behind closed doors. parliament is also ready to change the medium-term financial planning, but first of all the council of ministers needs to agree on a common position. i am not saying that we should not vote on the budget, but i am saying that we should not vote on the budget. the supplements will be required of us gradually over the course of the year.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the 2009 budget is a compromise. it is no less, but it is no more than a compromise. it is no wonder, as we have just heard. the financial perspective does not allow us to make great leaps, for which the structure of the european budget is so far far far too rigid, far too inflexible. the 2009 budget, after all, sends some important signals. we have thus succeeded in providing one billion more for food aid, for the poorest of the poor, and hopefully for a sustainable agricultural policy in the poorest countries. we will also spend a little more on small and medium-sized enterprises - very important for economic development - and a little more on climate protection. but new priorities are needed. we need to revise the european budget, and i would like to address this speech to the member states in particular, including my own german government. we must respond to the crisis, in the short term, but also in the medium and long term. the eu budget cannot of course replace national budgets or national policies. but if you don't change in the crisis, you've already lost. i recently watched on television the press conference that was broadcast when the head of general motors addressed the american congress with the demand for new loans. he argued: "we need to build green cars, we need to invest in green technologies". that manager is right. unfortunately, he's come to this realization rather late and american trucks are at a standstill. yes, it's true, we have to rebuild our economy. we must produce new, environmentally friendly, high-tech products if europe and its economy are to succeed in the coming years both at home and on the world market. we need to reduce emissions significantly. we must become more independent of oil. we need to invest more in renewable energy and much more in research. we will then have the opportunity to develop new products and thus create new jobs. yes, we must change agricultural policy. we need to link them to green energy production. this will also be a new opportunity for european farmers. we also need to spend more on well-defined development aid. not as a charity, but because it is a smart, strategic policy to introduce fair trade on a global scale and really come to a strategic approach of wealth equalisation. and we need to finally understand that we need to link growth with environmental protection and climate protection. we need a new paradigm of how we think about growth, and that's not just relevant to europe, but that's relevant to india and china, the emerging markets, and of course the united states. we very much hope that with the new obama administration, the american mindset will change and there will be a rethinking of the kyoto protocol. but all this must also be reflected in the european budget. that is why we must shift our focus. we have to answer the question of where the money comes from. my group the greens in the european parliament thinks that more environmental taxes are needed. we need to tax co2 consumption, we need to tax kerosene. the european budget is to be largely fed from this. all that is coming out of the commission at the moment - every few months - is that the internal logic is that we need a revision of the european budget to demonstrate to the citizens that we have understood, we want to change things, we need new priorities, we want to spend more on research and development, we need new technologies. we need to do more research on this, of course. there's no other way. grain - we've already discussed this - should be on the plate and not in the tank; the european union must also make this clear. we must invest more in education in the economic crisis, in the erasmus programme for the exchange of students, in lifelong learning. only then will young people in europe have new opportunities in the labour markets of the future and in their personal lives. we must invest more in cultural diversity, which is the european union's treasure, and citizens will thank us for this when they realise that european money is actually reaching them on the ground. and we must, if we want to be responsible, do more for a preventive foreign policy, not react when it's already too late. this too is a political responsibility. it is important to act early, which is why we need more resources for the stability instrument. with the forthcoming elections in june, we must show the european citizens that we have understood, that we are courageous, that we are ready to change european policy, including the whole of the european budget. i hope and believe that the citizens will recognize this in the elections.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, janusz lewandowski and jutta haug, and also the coordinators and staff of the secretariat and the political group. the latter have sometimes had to work beyond the limits of their capacity, as they do every year. i also thank the french presidency for the good and fair negotiations. i am well aware that the french presidency would have been prepared to go a step further if the majority in the council had allowed it. i would also like to say that the commission has been very constructive in its involvement in the negotiations. commissioner, if i may say so publicly, after all this time i would not object to your running again next year. ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have a budget for 2009 which will be divided into three stages. we'll vote on the first stage tomorrow. we are financing the basic needs of the european union with eur 133.7 billion in commitments and eur 116 billion in payments and have managed to put the food fund on track in an emergency operation, by adjusting the interinstitutional agreement, using the flexibility instrument and also by redeploying it in category 4. that's good. but it is also important to make it clear that this package includes a review of the existing development instruments both in the development cooperation within the budget and in the development fund, in order to achieve a better solution and better prospects for food security in the developing countries in the long term. it also highlights the urgent need for a fundamental revision of title 4 the eu as a global partner . part 2 will have to be discussed when the monetary advantage of the agreed declaration is taken, namely the acceleration and simplification of the existing rules on the structural funds and the implementation of rural development. if we do our homework together in the first quarter, this will have the consequence of creating supplementary budgets with increased payments to the structural and agricultural funds, also in the sense of supporting economic development. if we fail to exceed 120 billion euros in payments during the year, there will be administrative and political consequences. it's the only way to get it. the third point concerns the economic package. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one. but in the long term, please do not create a new shadow budget outside the european budget. we can't let that happen! the second element: we are prepared to ensure the planned revision on the basis of the right projects and the necessary procedures and also to put broadband cabling in the less-favoured rural areas on the rails as a complementary measure to all other priorities, with a focus on the interconnection of energy networks in the spirit of solidarity in the lisbon treaty in energy policy.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. i thank all the members who have taken part in this debate, who have spoken, even though in some of the speeches the 2009 budget was only the occasion for the speech, not the subject. i would like to thank all the members who have stayed here and discussed this with us from the beginning to the end. the economic recovery programme which the commission has presented to us has been the subject of many speeches and is driving many to action. i can only repeat what i have said several times: the european engine for the economic cycle in the member states is our cohesion policy. if we actually implement them correctly and truly, then we will be ahead, and we will certainly not have such a big problem with the economy next year. of course, we will not be able to make enough of our 116 billion euros in payments, but the whole of parliament will be ready to guarantee the corresponding payments in the amending and supplementary budgets. the commissioner has said that a budget is always a compromise. that was the previous budget and that is the 2009 budget. we had to give the council the low payments, the commission had to give us the 700 million in rural development surpluses and we had to make concessions on our priorities. but we have still managed to get a large part of our priorities through, i.e. more payments for action against climate change and more payments for the social dimension in terms of creating more and better jobs and supporting smes. we have succeeded in doing so and i am grateful to all my colleagues for this. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank mr swoboda very much. we'll look into it. i thank you for your words.
everyone has the right to express his opinion here, and the majority of the house decides.
i would like to thank mr davies. i agree with you completely on the substance, but please make sure that your group can guarantee attendance.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the reason: a plenary debate on the ets, the outcome of which could have led to the trilogue, has unfortunately not taken place. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals. but what we're here to decide today is the council's paper, one-on-one. not a word, not a comma from parliament. why the time pressure? we're talking about a period from 2013 onwards. the ets proposal, as it is now, will be met with contradictions and an explosion of costs. the issue of emissions trading is the most important industrial policy decision for years, if not decades. we are not prepared to surrender our democratic right to vote in the council chamber. what have so many members of this house been fighting for for almost thirty years? for example, that we leave climate policy almost entirely to the council through a simplified procedure? we want to deliberate democratically as an elected parliament, with a clear view of the consequences of our actions. thank you very much.
thank you, thank you. ladies and gentlemen, i hope i speak on behalf of all of you when i say that the european parliament has been extremely cooperative with the council of ministers, and when i say officially that the way we have reached a decision here must be exceptional and that in future we must insist on a first reading in principle, so that the position of the european parliament can be made clear. (applause from the centre)
i am not going to go into detail. i'm asking you to join us for the ceremony. this is for our guests, the sakharov prize winners. before i interrupt the sitting for two minutes until our guests arrive, i should like to welcome a delegation from the syrian parliament, led by mr suleiman haddad, chairman of the foreign affairs committee of the people's assembly, to our 10th interparliamentary meeting. welcome to our guests from syria! it should be noted that this visit takes place under favourable circumstances. the association agreement between syria and the european union was recently initialled and will be submitted to the european parliament for approval as soon as possible. the european parliament is convinced that syria can play a positive role in the middle east and in particular in the union for the mediterranean. i wish the delegation a pleasant stay in strasbourg and a fruitful exchange of views which can only be of service to our relations. welcome back to the club. i will therefore interrupt the sitting for a few minutes and we shall meet again shortly for the formal sitting. (the sitting was suspended from 12.05 to 12.15)
i am not going to go into detail. the formal sitting is now in session.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the former yugoslavia, and i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today is an extraordinary day for the european parliament, a day when we recall a fundamental concern of the european union: the commitment to peace, progress and human rights, as exemplified by the sakharov prize winners. andrei sakharov said: "it is impossible to achieve one of these goals - peace, progress and human rights - if you ignore the other two. we are gathered here today to honour some particularly courageous people, twenty years after the first sakharov prize was awarded and a few days after the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights. human rights activists, lawyers, journalists, religious leaders and organizations who are courageous, committed and passionate about human rights. we also honour the women, mothers and families who are fighting for the rights of their loved ones. i would like to thank all the sakharov prize winners from previous years who have honoured us with their presence here today. we look forward to working even more closely with all of you in the framework of the sakharov network, which we decided to establish yesterday by our signatures. i am deeply sorry that some of the laureates who would have liked to be here today cannot be because of the dictatorial governments in their countries. aung san suu kyi is still (applause) under house arrest in burma/myanmar. oswaldo payá and the representatives of the ladies in white, laura polán and berta soler, were refused leave by the cuban authorities, despite the fact that all the necessary procedures had been in place for more than two months. this refusal shows us clearly the conditions under which the democratic forces in cuba are forced to work. let me say this. this is not in the spirit of the recently resumed political dialogue or cooperation between cuba and the european union. (applause from the centre) more than twenty years ago, andrei sakharov paid a special tribute to the european parliament by acknowledging and agreeing with its decision to name this prize after him. andrei sakharov was right in his assessment that this prize is an encouragement to all those who work for human rights all over the world. i would also like to welcome tatjana, the daughter of elena bonner, to our family. i'm glad you came, tatyana. when the prize was first awarded in 1988, the laureate, nelson mandela, was in prison. that same year, there was an empty chair for andrei sakharov. and today, there's an empty chair for hu jia. we honour and honor these men, then and now, despite their forced absence, for their heroic commitment. then, as now, authoritarian regimes abused their power and tried to silence the voices of those who tried to exercise their basic right to freedom of thought and expression. then, as now, the oppressors' attempt to silence these courageous voices failed. today we will hear from two very brave women who, as both a wife and a mother, have dedicated their lives to the cause of freedom in their country, and have become a beacon of hope for millions of people in their homeland and around the world. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe. i will always remember how you, dear elena bonner, welcomed me to your moscow apartment after i visited your husband's grave in february 1990. it was a moving experience. it is wonderful to have you here in the european parliament today. we know the effort you've made to be here today. you know how much my colleagues appreciate your presence. we also welcome - i repeat - your daughter tatjana, who has done so much to help you and us carry on your husband's deeply human and dignified legacy. i would ask you to address us after the next part of this award ceremony. ladies and gentlemen, courage and self-sacrifice have always been crucial to the development of human rights over the centuries. the decision by hu jia to address a few words by telephone to the participants in a meeting of our subcommittee on human rights was an example of such great courage. the message he will deliver to us today through his wife zeng jinyan is a similarly selfless act. the cyber-dissidents of today zeng jinyan is one of them act in the same spirit as the soviet dissidents who communicated through samisdat literature and made their ideas heard. the 2008 sakharov prize winner, hu jia, was nominated as the representative of the silenced voices in china and tibet. but today we're going to hear one of those voices. i am sure that one day we will be able to hear hu jia himself here in the plenary of the european parliament. (applause from the centre) i would now like to ask you to record the message we received a few days ago from hu jia's wife, zeng jinyan.
wife of hu jia. − dear friends, i am hu jia’s wife, zeng jinyan. hu jia is currently in prison and so is unable to come to the ceremony to receive his sakharov prize. i do not have a passport so i cannot come to europe either to attend the ceremony for the sakharov prize’s 20th anniversary. we are deeply sorry about this. the good news is that hu jia was transferred on 10 october 2008 from chaobai prison in tianjin to the beijing municipal prison, and that the conditions in which he is being held have improved. as for his health, he is looking a little better. he seems to be in slightly better shape than he was in chaobai prison. however, he had two blood tests in the space of a month and we do not know what the results were. although we asked for them, the results of the tests have not been given to the family. this behaviour worries us. it makes us fear that his cirrhosis has got worse. i visited hu jia in the beijing municipal prison on 21 november 2008. before our meeting, we were both warned separately by the prison authorities that we were forbidden to talk about the fact that he had been awarded the sakharov prize. so, during my visit, neither of us was able to talk about the prize. we were not able to discuss it by letter either, as all our correspondence is inspected. even if all we do is express a view about social phenomena or if hu jia talks about the prison, when the prison authorities are not happy with it, our letters are confiscated or hu jia’s letters are returned to him. we very much hope to be able to communicate more normally, but for the time being it is very hard. at the end of october 2008 or beginning of november, i am not exactly sure which, state security police officers told hu jia he had won the sakharov prize. and when i saw him on 21 november, i could sense that he was very happy about it. i know that hu jia spoke to his mother and to the policemen about it. these are more or less his words:‘perhaps the european parliament was thinking of the work i did in the areas of aids and the environment, because what i did in terms of human rights was very far from sufficient and i will need to redouble my efforts.’ he also said this sakharov prize was very important for china and he was confident that the future would prove him right. obviously, from my personal viewpoint, i hope he comes home as soon as possible. hu jia said one day that he hoped to be china’s last prisoner of conscience but the reality is very different. since the day of his trial, on 3 april, there have been others such as huang qi, zeng honglin and chen daojun who have been arrested by the authorities because they expressed their views publicly. and some of them have been tried and given prison sentences. this shows that the situation of freedom of opinion is still absolutely appalling and that there is no reason for optimism. but even in these circumstances, there are now a great many exceptional people and people of goodwill in chinese society who are going to great lengths to find ways to make the real situation in china known, and to express deeply-felt views, and the internet is providing them with a very interesting platform. but unfortunately there is sometimes a very high price to be paid for this. if the truth be told, sometimes one’s courage is not enough. sometimes the price to be paid is very, very high. there have been cases in which, after human rights activists, writers and others have used their freedom of thought, their relatives have also been harassed by the police, have lost their jobs or have been put under house arrest. and more serious still, some have even been tried and convicted. hu jia had himself been illegally kidnapped several times by the police since 2004, without any form of legal procedure. he was constantly followed and in the end he was given a prison sentence. and i, who am his wife, i am often harassed by the police. others are in the same situation, such as chen guangchen and his wife, guo feixiong and his wife, and even their child, who has been denied his right to education. thanks to many appeals from different quarters, guo feixiong’s children were later able to go back to school although in circumstances that are not very satisfactory. for all these reasons, i would like to respect the desire that hu jia has expressed on many occasions. he has often said he would like to set up a support network to help the families of human rights activists. to provide moral support for the families, to ease their mental and life pressure to which they are subjected. so that they can be strong enough to face the pressure of the authorities in a more active and optimistic manner, and to discourage cruel revenge-taking on families. i cannot at the moment do very much but i would like to use the eur 50 000 of hu jia’s sakharov prize as start-up money, to establish a foundation to support the families of human rights activists and to finally realise what hu jia had always wanted. why is the human rights work done by hu jia so difficult? i think this is mainly because china’s legal system is not satisfactory. there are laws, there are all sorts of articles and regulations, some are well written, but they are not applied. in reality, the situation of the rule of law is disastrous. the judicial system has no independence. until 2004, hu jia devoted most of his activity to the problems of aids and the environment. he spent a lot of the time in the field, on campaigns, where people needed him to take concrete action. then, from 2004 onwards, the police regularly denied him his freedom of movement and he had no other choice but to participate in human rights movements from his home, writing articles and publishing reports from the field. i think that during all these years, the most important and most interesting thing he did was to have constantly persisted in saying the truth. he never stopped writing about the phenomena he observed. he never stopped describing, one by one, all the realities that the chinese media cannot say. he never stopped publishing all this on websites so that the public could learn about the reality of china and understand it. in my view, this has been his greatest contribution. if you look at china now, you see everyone talking, but lying is very widespread. nonetheless, there are people who continue their quest for the truth. because the school textbooks our children study, our newspapers and broadcast media, our libraries and all these documents and files, they all resemble what you find in the novel nineteen eighty-four. they are written in another language to describe a fictitious reality. what is the real situation, the real china? we do not know. that is why there is a group of thinking people, like hu jia, in china who have never abandoned their quest for the truth. but hu jia has paid a very heavy price. our child is now just one year old. this is a key period in her life but hu jia is not able to be at her side. it is very difficult for me to talk about this, but i think… and then hu jia has also always been very optimistic. he said he thought china was experiencing the most open period of its history, that you had to seize the opportunity to more effectively promote a fairer, freer and more democratic society in china. we can indeed see this in our daily life, although the government still has very tight control over the media and over freedom of association, and perhaps even tighter control with the use of new technology. but on the other hand, civil society also uses the new technology and the platform that the internet provides to actively promote a fairer judicial system and a more just society, and to investigate and expose the real china. and to carry out citizen education, to educate citizens about human rights. it is a real hope: whether the government wants it or not, and whether leading figures inside or outside china recognise it or not, china is moving at great speed towards an open and democratic society. i would finally like to say that, whatever happens, we must maintain an active and optimist attitude and pursue our efforts to promote the rule of law in china, to promote democracy and freedom in china. we are full of hope of soon being able to hail the arrival of an open china. we are full of energy for china to become a country at peace. i would like to thank our european parliament friends from the bottom of my heart. the european parliament has from the outset taken an interest in hu jia’s case and has deployed considerable efforts on behalf of freedom for hu jia and other chinese human rights activists, efforts that demand respect. it has also never stopped drawing attention to the need for freedom to become a reality for the people of china. thank you; thank you very much. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank all those friends whom i have never seen. if you had not supported us for so long, if you had not taken an interest in our fate, if you had not constantly encouraged us, i think we would never have found the courage to confront such a difficult social reality. it helps us to keep hope and to continue our efforts. i thank you. thank you for all the efforts you have undertaken for hu jia, for me and for our family. thank you for your efforts on behalf of human rights activists and your contribution to the progress of chinese society. thank you. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation.)
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, after zeng jinyan's impressive message, which she delivered on behalf of her husband hu jia, you have risen from your seats. we are deeply moved by this impressive conversation that zeng jinyan has just had with us. before i ask elena bonner to speak, i would like to say on behalf of the european parliament that we in the european parliament want good relations with china and we give them the highest priority. china is a great nation. europe needs china and china needs europe. we are speaking on human rights as friends of the chinese people and we are well aware of the great contribution we can make together to peace and progress in the world. human rights must never be seen as a threat to any nation, but as the individual, collective and universal rights of every people, indeed of all peoples. my dear mrs. elena bonner, i would like you to speak to us. (applause from the centre)
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. it is very difficult for me to intervene and express myself after listening to the remarks of this admirable young woman. there are many threats to his existence, to his future, and i think, we all think, gathered in this chamber for the award of the sakharov prize by the european parliament, that you have done everything in your power, you have done everything possible to defend at least hu jia, his wife, but also his child against everything that weighs on them. we know china, we know the size of this country, all the weight it weighs today. but in principle we should never make concessions when human rights are at stake. we should never make any concessions, give in to anything, even in the face of crises like the ones we have just experienced, financial crisis and economic crisis, because it is the very basis of our future, of our civilization that the defense of human rights, and therefore of humanity as a whole. it is the very foundation of our future and, to be honest, despite the feelings of friendship we may feel, despite the closeness i feel towards all the personalities here, the position of the european parliament, the position of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe and the positions of principle adopted by these assemblies, i must say that this prize, this sakharov prize, and the speeches like those that have been made, is in a way a recurring leitmotif, but it also calls for other decisions, those that are concerned with pragmatism. it is more important that the principles discussed above should be the basis for all activity, whether economic or otherwise. any decision, for example, on economic matters or the exploitation of natural resources, must be based on principles. without these principles, society cannot be successful. it's a first article, a first declaration of faith, according to andrei sakharov, which proclaimed that you must do what your conscience tells you and act accordingly. i would now like to turn to a different subject. today is our anniversary. the 20th anniversary of this award. in some countries people are of legal age at 18, in others at 21, and as a rule when people celebrate this birthday they are given gifts. i myself have prepared a gift for you, which i have crafted with my own hands. actually, it's something from russia. i wanted to make sure we could give it back as a little present. it's a kind of papyrus that i'm unfolding here in front of you, it's also a little bit like this scroll on which the text of the torah was engraved. you see a list, with 97 titles. in fact, this is a list of all the titles obtained by the sakharov prize winners and i think that when you want to explain to children who andrei sakharov is, well, you can show them this scroll with all the indications on it and what they evoke through the winners who have been awarded this recognition of the prize that bears his name. (applause) i would like to thank
we thank you from the bottom of our hearts, dear, esteemed elena bonner, for your message, which you have conveyed to us in such a wonderful way! ladies and gentlemen, before i close this sitting - and we are pleased to have commissioner ján figel with us, in addition to ms ferrero-waldner - i would ask you to stand up in solidarity with all the laureates who are not here today, who still have to fight for their rights and are deprived of their freedom for this. let us not show our support by a minute of silence, but rather by a minute of applause for peace, progress and human rights, as andrei sakharov has left us all as his legacy. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.) i would like to thank you all very much. that concludes this item. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i give the following explanation of vote on behalf of the cdu group of baden-württemberg: we strongly support efforts to significantly reduce the very likely human contribution to climate change. we have not, however, accepted the compromise reached at the weekend between the heads of state or government on the european emissions trading system. legislation in the hau-ruck procedure - that is precisely the point - is intolerable and undemocratic, and the extremely rapid legislative procedure and the submission of the council documents just a few days ago made it impossible, in our opinion, to conduct a qualified review and examination of the documents and thus to legislate properly. this is all the more unacceptable given the particularly high financial burden that this legislation imposes on the citizens of europe. according to various studies, the climate package is costing the european economy and citizens between €70 and €100 billion, and it threatens to relocate entire industries to other parts of the world through carbon leakage. we could not agree to a package of this magnitude under the expedited procedure. such important legislative proposals must be developed in an orderly procedure in several readings.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too am in favour of making cars that use less and less fuel. i am also in favour of setting consumption limits, but they must be realistic. i therefore abstained on this report because i do not think it is right that penalties of up to eur 475 per tonne of co2 are imposed for exceeding these low thresholds. there are many ways to save co2 at a much lower cost. this is a one-sided discrimination, especially against high-quality cars made in my home country of bavaria. we can save co2 with much lower costs in building insulation. i've insulated my house, which saves me 7,000 litres of fuel a year, which is more than i can save on my car. that is why we should take the right paths, and that is why i have abstained.
in writing. - mr president, i have to say something. the agreement on the climate package is a modest achievement. the eu has set itself a reduction target of 20% compared with 1990. we have already achieved almost half of this: the keyword is eastern enlargement, where emissions are lower in absolute terms. the target of a 12% reduction compared with 1990 remains. the eu is allowed to achieve three to four per cent of the reduction in developing countries, leaving just under nine per cent. the targets may be missed by up to 5%. that leaves four percent. normally, one should say at this point: lucky, the eu has decided not to export its economy entirely to asia. the compromise is much cheaper than the commission's proposal. that's what allows the fdp to approve. the eu is now playing its own member states against each other: through the energy mix, derogations and clever negotiation, some member states have the advantage. german energy suppliers may soon be able to produce electricity in poland instead of at home, if they are not bought by the french. the fact that eu countries are engaged in such a cow trade does not bode well for a global agreement. the question of the efficiency of the means also arises. governments, the council and the european commission are called upon to ensure efficiency in environmental protection as well as in the economy and growth.
in writing. − my 'no' is not a rejection of efficient emissions trading through auctioning, is not a rejection of eu climate targets or ccs funding. various previous votes and my report on ccs demonstration plants make my agreement with these points clear. but for my region of brandenburg, the text in question means the imposition of unfair competition with eastern or central european countries and higher energy price increases than are necessary to achieve the climate protection objectives. we need coal for our energy mix to ensure the security of supply for our citizens, and we want to see coal used in a climate-friendly way in the future through ccs technology. the agreement with the council to take a final decision after only one reading has left strong concerns unaddressed and competition for the best solutions unable to take place.
in writing. −declaration of the csu europe group: the eu has set itself ambitious climate targets. the aim is to reduce co2 emissions by 20% by 2020. these climate targets must not be shaken. in all our efforts to protect the climate, we must also aim to formulate clear legislation to ensure planning certainty for our economy. the european industry must not be put at a disadvantage compared with its international competitors. the eu must also create a 'level playing field'. the eu emissions trading directive put to the vote today does not meet any of these requirements: certain industries may be exempted from the auctioning of co2 allowances. the data used to determine compliance with the criteria are not yet known. the commission has also proposed that the aid should be limited to the minimum necessary to ensure that the aid is compatible with the common market. 3.if there is no international agreement in copenhagen in 2009, the auctioning of co2 allowances will create additional burdens in many industries that competitors outside the eu do not have. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. this is a disadvantage for germany, which, compared with its eastern neighbours, obtains 48% of its electricity from coal-fired power stations.
in writing. i voted against the consolidated amendment because i did not see the rights of the european parliament as a member of parliament being respected: parliament has never had the opportunity to form an opinion. instead, it had the de facto only choice of rejecting or agreeing to the european council's compromise. this is not in accordance with the rules of the codecision procedure, which is intended to guarantee equality between the two legislative bodies. i have many reservations about the content of the compromise reached. it is thus creating significant distortions of the market within the eu and imposing unnecessary burdens on consumers. in the unnecessary rush to adopt the reform, alternative systems that could also have achieved the reductions sought were not considered at all. the fact that the economic consequences, particularly on consumers' purchasing power, were not closely examined at the time of adoption only highlights the poor thinking behind this compromise. the majority of the european parliament is also responsible for its entry into force, also in relation to future generations. there were alternatives. they would have achieved the reduction targets at a fraction of the costs now incurred. such policies are not only damaging to the economy but also, and above all, to the eu's reputation.
in writing. - i strongly support efforts to reduce the likely human contribution to climate change. we have not, however, agreed to the negotiated compromise on the european emissions trading system. legislation by the hau-ruck procedure is unsustainable and undemocratic. the extremely rapid legislative procedure and the submission of the council documents only a few days ago have, in my view, made it impossible to examine the documents in a qualified manner and thus to legislate properly. this is all the more unacceptable given the high financial burden that this legislation will place on europe's citizens: according to various studies, the climate package will cost between eur 70 and 100 billion, and it threatens to relocate entire industries to other parts of the world. i could not agree to a package of this magnitude in the fast-track procedure. such important legislative projects must be dealt with in an orderly procedure in several readings.
in writing. − in this explanation of vote, i would like to congratulate fuels quality directive rapporteur, dorette corbey. she has succeeded in incorporating many demands of this house into the final compromise. the european union must base its policies and regulations on sound scientific evidence – a requirement both of eu law and the eu’s trade commitments. as a member of the trade committee, i often hear from trading partners when the eu appears to be regulating by arbitrary or political processes rather than by reference to scientific conclusions. i was therefore pleased that the revised fuel quality directive did not include an earlier proposal to ban the fuel additive mmt. the revised directive provides for the continued use of mmt, in recognition of the scientific conclusions reached by major trading partners, including the united states and canada. importantly, the revised directive also requires the eu to conduct a scientific examination. i strongly believe – and eu and international law require – that restrictions on mmt must be based on science. because other countries often model their fuel standards on those developed in europe, it is essential that the eu ensure its fuel regulations are strongly supported by scientific evidence.
in writing. - on behalf of the cdu members from baden-württemberg, i would like to make the following statement: we have agreed to the proposal for a regulation despite considerable reservations. on the one hand, it is right to urge the car industry to reduce co2. that is why we have agreed to the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the proposed type of reduction does not apply equally to all european manufacturers but particularly to manufacturers of large vehicles, which are in turn innovators. this is hitting german manufacturers harder than others in the eu. the impact assessment is still lacking. the first draft, which set the angle of inclination of the functional rectangles at 80% (instead of 60% as at present), was withdrawn. the penalties were set arbitrarily, particularly in stage 4. this leads to the introduction of two different price levels for co2: the market price traded on the stock exchange and a price arbitrarily set for the automotive industry.
in writing. the automotive industry is particularly affected by the current economic crisis. the majority of car manufacturers in germany have already imposed compulsory christmas holidays on their employees at the beginning of december. the regulation adopted today will put the german and especially the bavarian automobile industry under a further severe test, which will require great efforts on the part of the industry. it is therefore positive that the industry has been granted extensive transitional arrangements to meet the agreed reduction targets. the commission has also adopted a 'phasing-in' approach, whereby initially only 65% of new cars registered in the eu in 2012 will be allowed to meet the agreed target of an average of 120 grams of co2 per kilometre. the aim is to achieve this target by 2015. the commission also proposes to allow for the introduction of a maximum of seven grams for 'eco-innovations' such as solar roofs or energy-efficient air conditioning systems. we regret, however, that the report sends the wrong signal in terms of penalties for exceeding the targets. because if you exceed 4 grams, you'll be fined 95 euros per gram. this is an unnecessary and exorbitant burden on the automotive industry compared to the co2 prices that apply in the context of the emissions trading system.
in writing. - i agreed, despite considerable reservations. on the one hand, it is right to urge the automobile industry to reduce co2. on the other hand, we would like to express our serious reservations (see in particular point 3). the proposal does not apply equally to all european manufacturers, but particularly to manufacturers of large vehicles, which are in turn innovators. this is particularly true of german manufacturers. the impact assessment is lacking. the first draft, which set the angle of inclination of the functional rectangles at 80% (instead of 60% as now), was withdrawn. the penalties were set arbitrarily, particularly in stage 4. this leads to the introduction of two different price levels for co2: the market price traded on the stock exchange and a price arbitrarily set for the automotive industry.
the next item is the joint debate on the council and commission statements on the european union's annual report on human rights and on france's initiative at the un to decriminalise homosexuality. we have a small problem because the representative of the council, madame yade, cannot be with us yet. she's on a plane somewhere in the strasbourg area, but she can't land. i suggest that we start with the commission, then we start with the debate and then we give the floor to mrs yade when the time comes.
i have to say, madam president, the comprehensive report illustrates how many human rights violations are taking place in the world every day. this is particularly appalling 60 years after the declaration of the charter of human rights and is a call for us to intensify our efforts. i am therefore in favour of giving the current subcommittee on human rights the status of a main committee. today we awarded the sakharov prize to hu jia, who is fighting for human rights and the environment in china. but because of his imprisonment, he could not receive him personally. shame on china! and tomorrow, there will be a debate on human rights abuses in russia. in our relations with these two countries, not only economic interests but also, and above all, human rights must be given greater weight. we demand the release of hu jia in china and the release of mikhail khodorkovsky in russia!
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. today marks the 20th anniversary of the sakharov prize. last week was the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, and both events are as timely as ever. we must strengthen our commitment to the continuous promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms, not only in europe but also throughout the world. i have the utmost respect for you, madam secretary, for daring to criticize your own government's handling of libya. not everyone dares to do that, and i think that's what they call 'going back to your own door'. in 2004, the european parliament was assured that there would be a group of commissioners who would work on fundamental rights. unfortunately, there is still no report and we are seeing attacks on freedom of movement in italy, freedom of expression in the member states, the right to privacy in the united kingdom and elsewhere. fundamental rights are like muscles. if you don't use them, they wilt. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen! as a reporter for the office of fraud prevention, you have interesting experiences, like the one where everyone talks about fraud prevention and then nobody does anything about it. or the experience of member states calculating their payments to the european union with great care, but spending this money is a waste of money and even makes it easy for fraudsters, for example by the fact that it still takes an average of 36 months for irregularities to be reported to the european union in the first place. the european parliament does not agree. we want an effective fight against fraud, including prevention. we want the member states to raise the issue of combating fraud and we want to discuss together the needs and problems. we want to see a greater interest on the part of the national judicial authorities in the follow-up of olaf's findings. in the case of crooked rounds, there can no longer be law-free spaces as before. we need to equalise european money with national money. we want an independent office with the necessary resources and legal basis to fulfil its tasks. we want an office that can work with the member states in a quiet and efficient way. our opinion on the legal basis, regulation 1073/99, covers all these points. we are calling for this regulation to be developed further as the heart of the office for the prevention of fraud together with the council. we call on the council to incorporate our opinion and to begin discussions on the further development of this regulation. we want to find a solution to olaf's problems. i thank all the groups in the house for supporting this in a resolution which we shall be voting on tomorrow. i call on the french and czech presidencies to accept and play the ball of parliament. we have also taken up in our proposals solutions which the council working party has developed and introduced. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to adopt this regulation. the consolidation of all olaf legal bases, as envisaged by the council, would be another considerable loss of time with an uncertain outcome. olaf is about to celebrate its tenth anniversary. consolidation means another 10 years without an improved legal basis. we are too serious about fighting fraud. we therefore want to make what is possible now possible in cooperation with the council. thank you very much.
mr president, madam president of the council! as a member of the committee of the regions, i see the importance of olaf's work in the field of the structural funds. the last report on the financial interests of the community contains over 3 800 reports of irregularities. this is an increase of 19% compared with 2006. the figure is 828 million euro, 17% more than in the previous year. the council must therefore improve the fight against fraud now, and do so by means of a genuine reform of the legal basis, not by a superficial cosmetic of existing texts. and if the council is serious, then work on improving your reporting too! it takes an average of 36 months for olaf to receive any irregularities from the member states. deliver fast and good figures, and do so electronically, so that olaf can do its work efficiently! we owe it to everyone, to the taxpayer and to those who spend eu money with the best of conscience.
member of the commission. − first of all, i think the question of the irish crisis is proof that we have good systems in place. you do not agree, but i think that, if we did not have good systems in place, the irish crisis would have gone unnoticed. it is in fact because we found out that there was this meat with dioxin – because of the traceability of the traders, and of where they buy and where they deliver their meat – that we were immediately able to withdraw it. (an intervention from the floor)it was a precautionary measure that the government of ireland decided to take. traceability is possible because they keep records of where they sell their products. you have your opinion about that. of course, i am sure my services will reflect on the irish crisis because it has cost the european union many millions of euros and another large sum of money to the irish government; so it is something which will not remain unnoticed, and we shall study it. but i believe – this is my personal opinion – that it is thanks to the traceability rules that we were really able to address the crisis.
member of the commission. − what i said about the labelling was with regard to chicken that was imported. when the chicken was imported, it had to be labelled, and i said specifically that compulsory labelling is necessary in the case of poultrymeat. but if the meat is defrosted and sold in another form, it has to abide by the rules of the european union. it does not have to abide by the rules of the country of origin. any meat producer, whether it is the person who produces the poultry or the person who produces the food, has to abide by our very strict food laws. if this is not the case, then he is liable.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner figel, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. when it comes to education in europe, everyone is right about bologna! since the eu member states decided in 1999 to create a common european higher education area by 2010, many barriers to mobility have been removed. the idea of thinking in terms of bachelor's and master's degrees and the recognition of academic achievements by the ects system create an awareness of the need for joint action. the same principle should apply to vocational training. a milestone is the barcelona summit in 2002, which called for transnational recognition of learning outcomes. the same year saw the birth of the copenhagen process to promote closer cooperation in vocational education and training. in 2006, we set new conditions, namely the european qualifications framework. i was the author of the european parliament's own-initiative report at the time. the eqf has three functions: the aim is to link national and sectoral qualifications, to make vocational and general education comparable and to ensure transparency and transferability. in order to allow these learning outcomes to be counted and recognised, ecvet, the european credit system for vocational education and training, is now being established. only when skills and competences become transparent will there be no obstacles to their transferability and acceptance, either within member states or transnationally. in this way, ecvet contributes to the development of european cooperation in education and training. the willingness to move will increase. career plans will be easier to realize. the social integration of workers and learners is also likely to increase. the serious commitment to quality criteria in vocational training and continuing training must take account of national specificities. the close cooperation between school and work, the dual system, is not well understood by everyone. and not everyone is aware of the high cost of skills, time and money involved in obtaining a master's degree or a degree in economics. the aim is to complement the activities of the member states and to strengthen their cooperation. the second is the question of the credits, which must be guaranteed to enable the former to add up one module for the assessment of knowledge and skills and the latter to insist on their final examinations. this freedom must be! ladies and gentlemen, the almost unanimous vote in favour of my report in the committee on employment and social affairs has motivated me to negotiate with the european commission and the council. we met in bordeaux on the sidelines of an education conference of the french presidency of the council. i thank all the shadow reporters for joining this compromise. i hope that our joint work will be seen as a qualified contribution to effective, transparent and mobile vocational education and training. ecvet is a key building block for the european learning area.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will speak only briefly because i spoke at some length at the beginning of the debate. i will continue where the last speaker ended, especially because of the crisis. we have to invest better and more in education and training. not less, but better and more, which means efficiency, compatibility, relevance and so on, and then more again. that is the position of the commission and of course i also feel it applies here. the messages tonight about the mobility of a qualified labour force, lifelong learning, accumulation and transfer of knowledge, and a culture of quality are very important for our national education and training systems, and they should become a reality. i just want to confirm that instruments which we adopt – you will vote tomorrow, i hope, on the compromise text or amendments tabled, which i confirm and welcome – make europe more qualifications-friendly. that means more people-friendly or citizen-friendly, and that is something which we really need to share, maybe more than in the past. through such instruments we can deliver better conditions for motivation, mobilisation for innovation and all these important objectives. the commission, under the czech presidency, will try to help organise conferences: the main launching conference for both instruments and then more specific conferences on further implementation. maybe the two rapporteurs could help us or be with us at these events. of course implementation is the most important part ahead of us. i also want to say, as many have said tonight: merry christmas and happy new year – the european year of creativity and innovation – 2009.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. - mr president, i have to say something. dear ján figel, thank you for the excellent cooperation with you personally, but also with your house. we're really kind of addicted to each other. i think that's a good result. sepp kusstatscher is quite right: the european union has high ambitions in this area of vocational training. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. maria panayotopoulos-cassiotou is absolutely right. we want to see concrete results, not the usual declarations of intent, not the usual fine speeches, but we want to see facts emerge. the period of rather haphazard cooperation then gives way to a period of intensive coordination. at present, learning outcomes vary considerably across the member states. it follows that we need agreements between companies and national authorities on educational institutions. mr takkula is quite right, we do not want a european stranglehold, and that is not what is being planned. soft law, taking care of others, involving others, that's what we really need. we want to get the experts together - at the hearings, in the working groups, also for the preparation of studies. then we need the educational institutions. mr maštálka is quite right, we can also use existing networks and the social partners. the benefits for workers and employers, for private and public education providers, are then seen: a classic win-win system. the importance of lifelong learning has been highlighted by both joel hasse ferreira and paul rübig. and rightly so, because these are the dimensions that we can really score with. i am also in favour of voluntary work, because all the players are involved. on the basis of ever-growing trust, we will be the first member states to do the same thing in 2012. we need a trial period. we're going to include the assessment of level 1 to level 8 of the eqf, and of course my wonderful neighbor is absolutely right, this has to become a reality. the young people have a right to see that we are needed, we are necessary and we can develop, always in accordance with national legislation. the other countries are then free to join later and join this ecvet system whenever they are able to do so. i think the chances of that are exceptionally good. if we continue to discuss this in such a cooperative circle, we will go a few steps further. i think we've made a difference.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i would of course welcome the report on the evaluation and future development of the frontex agency and the european border surveillance system eurosur. i would like to thank mr moreno sánchez. the european parliament has continuously supported the frontex agency since its creation, particularly in terms of financial resources. i am pleased to see this support reaffirmed at this crucial moment in the existence of the agency, when we are considering the possibility of extending its mandate. almost all the points raised in the report are in line with our communications and i fully agree with them. as an example, i would mention the explicit invitation to the commission to submit proposals to extend the mandate of the agency, the call for permanent patrols in high-risk areas and the need to make european solidarity operational when it comes to controlling our borders. however, a number of points need clarification. at present, the provision of technical equipment by member states is on a voluntary basis. the commission has repeatedly urged member states to honour their commitments to ensure that equipment is actually available for joint operations, particularly in high-risk sectors. but this year's experiments indicate that deploying enough ships remains a problem. it is therefore necessary to consider other solutions. for example, requiring member states to make certain equipment available to the agency or allowing the agency to rent or purchase its own equipment. this will be a key issue to be examined in the context of the commission's proposal to adapt the agency's legal framework. i would remind you that the results of the independent evaluation of the mandate of the agency under article 33 of the frontex regulation will be known in 2009. the commission will then make its proposals on the future mandate of the agency. this revision could include specific provisions on the contribution to rescue operations at sea, on participation in return operations, on enhanced cooperation with third countries. it is also true, ladies and gentlemen, that the commission wishes to intensify information campaigns through its delegations in third countries, within the framework of the european union's external relations policy and on the basis of the common definition of the roles, mandates and roles of frontex. the commission will examine the types of support that neighbouring third countries may receive. i am one of those who believe that if frontex could carry out its surveillance operations as close as possible to the borders of the coasts of third countries, this would avoid humanitarian disasters and would allow for much greater efficiency in the surveillance of our borders. in any case, i thank the european parliament for this report, which is in line with the commission's proposals. so i would like to thank you for the european parliament's important and comprehensive support for the commission's communications on frontex. i believe that we have reached a consensus among the european institutions on the broad lines for the future development of frontex.
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: - mr president, i have to say something. what does frontex have to do with development? very much so, as jean ziegler, the former un special rapporteur on the right to food, described in detail in the journal le monde diplomatique in march of this year. he said: 'this is what we are doing with frontex and the hypocrisy of the brussels commissioners who are on the one hand organising the famine in africa and on the other hand criminalising the victims of their policies, the refugees from hunger.' specific examples: the eu is dumping agricultural products, destroying african food production, and increasingly forcing people to flee. in particular, eu factory vessels are also fishing for fisheries within the mileage zones of african states. there is a rapid destruction of traditional fishing villages, for example in the sahel, but also in mali and guinea-bissau. in other words, frontex is an institution that effectively seals off and organizes deportations, even without regard for the geneva convention on refugees. meanwhile, mass deportations are also being organized, such as the one on november 14 from vienna, from 11 eu countries. solidarity is mentioned very frequently in the report. solidarity here does not refer to solidarity with people who are fleeing, but to solidarity between countries. what is needed is quite clear: solidarity with those people who are fleeing from unbearable living conditions. frontex only creates longer escape routes and does not provide any solution. the only sensible thing to ask for is the dismantling of frontex. in this context, i would also suggest that you look at statements from the african sector, such as those of the former minister of culture and tourism of mali, aminata traore, who said quite clearly: 'the human, financial and technological resources that europe is using to counter the waves of migration from africa are in fact the tools of a war between this world power and young africans from town and country, whose right to education, economic activity, work and food in their countries of origin is totally disregarded under the knot of structural adjustment.' i think those are clear words.
i am pleased to inform you that a delegation from the national assembly of vietnam is here today for the 7th interparliamentary meeting. welcome to the club. (applause from the centre) this meeting takes place at a very important moment in our relations. vietnam is currently negotiating a partnership and cooperation agreement with the european union and also plays an important role within asean, the association of southeast asian nations, with which the eu is negotiating a free trade area. mr nassauer is the chairman of our delegation. i should like to extend a warm welcome to the vietnamese delegation, led by mr nguyen van son, chairman of the foreign affairs committee of the vietnamese national assembly. we hope you have a good consultation. we met yesterday. welcome back to the club.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, your vote on the second reading of the draft budget is the last stage in a procedure marked by a very high level of cooperation between the two arms of the budgetary authority and with the commission. i would like to thank all the players very warmly, in particular the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr böge, the rapporteurs, mr haug and mr lewandowski, and commissioner dalia grybauskaite. together, at our consultation meeting on 21 november, we agreed on a balanced budget for 2009, which ensures well-balanced financing of the european union's policies, while safeguarding the interests of european taxpayers. together we have identified the ways in which the food facility can be financed, thus fulfilling our duty of solidarity towards the developing countries, and together we have drawn up the concrete measures to overcome the impasse on cohesion policy and finally launch the programmes for the period 2007-13. the importance of this initiative was underlined by the heads of state and government at the european council, and it is a major part of the european response to the economic crisis on which we must continue our work rapidly. your vote ensures the full implementation of the results of the consultation and, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the treaty, i can therefore confirm that the council accepts the maximum rate of increase resulting from your second reading.
i thank you, mr woerth, for your explanation. since the commission does not wish to comment, i note that the budgetary procedure is closed in accordance with the provisions of the treaty and the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006. i also note that, in accordance with point 13 of this interinstitutional agreement, the council and parliament agree to accept the ceilings for the increase in noncompulsory expenditure resulting from parliament's second reading. the budgetary procedure is therefore closed and the budget is declared final. we shall now sign the various declarations, but we shall have to vote on another resolution shortly. (the president called on mr eric woerth, mrs dalia grybauskaitė, mr reimer böge, chairman of the committee on budgets, and the rapporteurs mr jutta haug and mr janusz lewandowski to appear before him.) (the president declared the common position approved as amended) i have just heard that my colleague reimer böge is celebrating his birthday today, and i would like to congratulate him on that occasion.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to say something. we have tried to take account of the changed situation in the oral amendment. we want to tell the council again that parliament is ready to negotiate the five billion euro that the commission has proposed for revision. the amendment therefore reads: 'i am reading it in english now because we have also worked in english to get all colleagues on board as quickly as possible: 'expresses its strong willingness to enter into negotiations with the council on the basis of the commission's proposal for a revision of the mff 2007-2013 for eur 5 billion in the framework of the proposed european economic recovery plan; takes note of the conclusions of the december 2008 european council in that respect.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is the european schools in brussels. we have discussed this for a long time and had many conversations. we should be a little more rigorous in our figures than we have had in the text so far, because we want the commission to take action. we have set a deadline for this in the new text. i 'll read it in english again . notes with concern the situation of current and future young pupils in the european schools in brussels resulting from the delayed and still pending opening of the fourth school in laeken and the current enrolment procedure leading to long and unacceptable travel times for the children; expects the commission, in cooperation with the general secretariat of the european schools in brussels, to present a revised enrolment procedure by the end of march 2009 with objective and comprehensible criteria (including the main residence and already enrolled siblings), which will come into force with the next enrolment period;
there was no debate on this report, so the rapporteur has the right to speak for two minutes. i thank him for that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a question on the rules of procedure. we are now adopting a decision, a directive, on the basis of a trilogue agreement. we had a similar situation yesterday in the emissions trading business. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that's right. we didn't do that yesterday. i don't understand why you didn't do this yesterday. it was the same situation, but there was no individual vote. i don't think that's right. i put forward proposals yesterday with 40 members and i think i have a right to have yesterday's proposals voted on.
i'm just doing what i have to do. i'm just the executive, too. i have no power. i may have influence, but i have no power.
we shall put this to the conference of presidents and then we shall come to a decision one way or another.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the agreement between the european parliament and the council of ministers included a statement from the european commission, which mr verheugen promised us. he did not make that statement on monday. i assumed that mr verheugen, who is not here today but is represented by mr barrot, would make this statement on three points which were important to us as a parliament before the vote. but i have not heard such an explanation before. i would like to know how the procedure actually works here!
the president has not been informed of this. i'll take that under advisement. when, mrs gebhardt, do you think the time is right for the commission to make a statement, if it wants to make one, now or at a later date?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we usually hear this statement before the vote because it is part of the text, but this text has not yet been formally submitted to parliament in writing. that is why we need this text to be made official. i guess that's obvious.
madam president, you said that we usually hear that at the beginning. but that time has passed. mr barrot would like to make his statement now.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i will give you the three statements, which can be put on the record, in reply to mrs gebhardt.
mr. vice president, how long is this statement? if it's not too long, i'd ask you to read it. that was mrs. gebhardt's proposal.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, there are three declarations: declaration of the european commission on monitoring of safety aspects; declaration of the european commission on the requirement concerning toys which are designed to emit a sound; declaration of the european commission on the classification of books. je peux vous en donner lecture.
that was a technical explanation.
i take it from your reply that you agree with mr swoboda's proposal. we shall now proceed to the vote, but we shall not take the final vote. after the vote on the amended proposal, we shall postpone the final vote until we have heard the commission's opinion in its entirety.
i am not going to go into detail. you just said you didn't agree with me. then let's vote on whether to vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask, with all due respect, why the commissioner cannot read what he has in his possession. is there a problem of principle?
the commissioner cannot or will not answer that, mr posselt. i, for one, do not want to explain this because it is not my job.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to return to the final vote on the gianluca susta report. we voted against it by mistake in the final vote. we were going to vote for it. this is the result of a slight irritation with the oral amendment. i ask you to accept that we wanted to vote in favour of it in the final vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i refer to the relevant rule in the rules of procedure. we voted on the bauer report a few months ago. i have therefore written to clarify how we are to vote on the amendments to the reports. it is undeniable that we need a qualified majority for the final vote when we ask the commission to act as legislator. but i do not see why we need a qualified majority in advance for amendments. i'm afraid i haven't received a reply yet. we now have another report of this kind on the agenda. i'd appreciate it if the services could sort this out.
i have just been informed, mr president, that a reply to the bauer report is on its way to you. i hope you get it before christmas.
i have to say, madam president, i didn't agree to the toy compromise proposal. there are still too many security gaps, especially with chemicals. poison is not for children, not even in small quantities. the decision today is disappointing and, moreover, not very ambitious. there are too many loopholes. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to dangerous substances. this lax approach to the safety of our children is deplorable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's a trick of the eye. there are improvements, but this should be taken for granted in a directive which was 20 years old and had to be revised. the bottom line is, too much spin and not enough substance. the responsibility cannot be delegated to industry. we are responsible for clear legislation!
i have to say, madam president, what we are witnessing now is the last months of the mugabe regime. but it is also the only positive news from this battered country. the good news from africa is that more and more countries are fighting back against the conditions there. i can report as first vice-president of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly that for the first time, at our meeting in port moresby three weeks ago, we had african colleagues on board in a critical analysis and assessment of the situation in zimbabwe. in south africa itself, pressure is mounting on the government to finally take its protective hand from the zimbabwean regime. this situation is exacerbated by the fact that now in south africa, diseases are also coming into the country with the refugees. hopefully this situation will improve by the time the world cup is over, because that's perhaps why south africa is making a change, because they're afraid that the guests will be out. that alone should be a reason to take that protective hand away from mugabe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have expressed our willingness to cooperate with russia on many occasions. we want economic exchanges and political dialogue with russia. europe and russia need each other. we are all the more concerned about the development of the rule of law and democracy in this country, whose people have already suffered under soviet dictatorship for so many decades. all democratic indicators have been down since vladimir putin took office: freedom of the press and media, freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of association - not just for political parties - judicial independence, respect for minorities. the convictions of russia at the european court of human rights here in strasbourg are a sobering testimony to the situation of civil rights in that country. the storming of the memorial research and information centre in st petersburg on 4 december unfortunately shows, among other things, that the present leadership apparently wants to displace the burden of the stalinist legacy and whitewash stalin's terror. this is not a good basis for the development of a democratic society, which is the prerequisite for prosperous economic and social development, but also for the confidence of europe's neighbours in russia as a reliable and peaceful partner. we must press for the return to the rule of law and democracy in russia in the common interest in all contacts with the government and civil society and business.
i have to say, madam president, the rule of law problems in russia are not isolated developments, but a systematically spreading cancer. we are in the second phase of the putin era, garnished by a mr medvedev, and the third phase is being prepared. mr putin began his first era with the second chechen war, a genocidal assault on a small people by massive resource colonial interests. since then, the situation has been spreading, the rule of law and freedom of the press have been reversed, human rights defenders like mrs moskalenko have been persecuted all the way to the european capital, strasbourg, and we are simply seeing no progress and, as i said, not just isolated failures, but a systematic loss of what little remains of the rule of law and democracy. that is why we as the european union must act with much more energy. we owe it to the people who died in the negotiations for an agreement, such as mrs politkovskaya, mr litvinenko and many others, to have dared to investigate or name these developments. anyone who speaks openly about this in russia is already in danger of losing their life. and each time it's supposed to be a mysterious, opaque background. we have therefore a duty, we who live here in freedom and relative security, to ensure that light is finally shed on this darkness and that we here in the european parliament at least do what we can do, namely to speak in a clear and honest language to the russian authorities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. let us take the example of the courage of elena bonner and andrei sakharov and stop pretending to be anything but. let's put things as they really are. we are doing the russian people the greatest service we can.
madam president, in the first line we want to replace the words ‘xenophobia’ and homophobia’ with ‘violence’, because we think that the violence goes beyond xenophobia and homophobia and also covers national minorities or religious minorities. we would like to say ‘trends of violence’ in the first part, because later we refer to various other issues – nationality, religion and sexual orientation. as they remain in the text, i think it would be too narrow to refer only to xenophobia and homophobia in the first line. could colleagues agree to the word ‘violence’ in the first line?
