mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the rapporteur, as many others have done, for the excellent report we are discussing here. it is clear that with so many cars, increasing mobility and a growing desire for even more people to have the opportunity to drive, the problem of emissions is a key problem that we are going to have to deal with. co2 as such is not toxic to humans, and a little more co2 in the atmosphere would actually make plants grow a little faster. but co2 is destructive to the climate, and that is why it is important that we do what we can to reduce co2 emissions. i think we must invest more in research so that we can produce engines that run at a much higher temperature than today - perhaps using ceramic or other materials - and not least by a much more widespread use of software to control it. i believe that the objectives set are easy to achieve. there is no reason to believe that, with a concentrated, targeted effort and considerable research resources, we in europe should not be able to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves and develop into the leading industry in the automobile industry, as we already are today.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, the polish electoral law on elections to the european parliament is truly unfair and undemocratic compared to the law on elections to the national parliament. the forfeiture of a seat of a deputy to the european parliament by laws of eligibility is an easy way to put pressure on political opponents and gives the opportunity to settle an account politically with those who have more authority. unfortunately, although being in the european union, the law is still abused in many former communist countries. this is the case for mr tomczak as well. as members of the european parliament, polish meps represent not only the poles but also all europeans. it is unacceptable that these people’s representatives are discriminated against by maintaining different legislation with regard to members of the polish parliament. a polish mep, if convicted, will be punished not only by polish law but will also lose his seat as a member of the european parliament. that fact clearly shows the discrimination of polish members of the european parliament in comparison to members of national parliaments. that situation is unacceptable and shows clearly how unjust and unfair the polish electoral law is. may i urge poland to change its electoral law?
in writing. − i voted against the chatzimarkakis report, because the commission proposal is more environmentally friendly. the rapporteur sets as target 125 grams of co2 per km in 2015. the commission proposal suggests a maximum emission target of 120 grams of co2 in 2012, which was retabled as an amendment. this amendment has regrettably been dismissed. i wonder from where the rapporteur got the proposal, which is environmentally and technically inferior, without having been influenced by the car industry lobby. for years there have been voluntary agreements between the commission and the car industry to limit the co2 emissions. the commission target does not come out of the blue and is, according to the car industry, technically feasible and, innovatively speaking, an export product. they will, however, temporarily be making a lesser profit in order to stabilise their competition position in the future. there is unjustified use of the issue of loss of employability. i point out the fact that only 6% of the production costs of new cars are personnel costs. the choice of cost-cutting on labour is unrelated to the move to 120 grams of co2 per km in 2012. should the car industry decide to move to low wage countries, they will do this nonetheless.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, i should like to thank the president-in-office for the nice visit we had to slovenia before christmas. president-in-office, i hope you will lead the european council better than you led the meeting group leaders had with you: you took most of the speaking time yourself and you said nothing we did not know in advance; you did not allow your ministers, whom i would expect to know their subjects, to answer most of our questions; and you did not send the answers in writing afterwards. a parliament also contains an opposition with certain rights. yesterday i received a petition from 571 slovenian journalists criticising you for not respecting their press freedom. will you allow an independent investigation? last week you were reported to have asked portugal to cancel the possible referendum supported by most portuguese voters. may i remind you of the existing nice treaty, which requires you to take all decisions as close to citizens as possible? to cancel a referendum is a violation of this article. member states can be criticised but not punished, because ratification is still a national competence. the behaviour of a presidency and the european commission is a community affair. you have to respect the national ratification procedures. if you say something, you should remind member states of the joint legal obligation to legislate as close to the citizens as possible. you violate the treaty, and so does the european commission when it does not behave as guardian of this treaty article. you are part of a political agreement among prime ministers to avoid a referendum. this agreement is a violation of the treaty. the commission should have protested it instead of supporting the attempt to avoid the peoples of europe. read article 1 of the treaty on european union once more: ‘decisions are taken as openly as possible and as closely as possible to the citizen’. what a wonderful sentence that would be, if it were implemented! the lisbon treaty was decided in as closed a way as possible and as far away as possible from the voters. now it seems that only ireland can save our european democracy. but the council could at least publish a consolidated version of the lisbon treaty, so that you would be able to read what you have signed. on 17 december 2007, hungary signed a text it had not even received! this is not a way to decide close to the citizens or the members of parliament.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – madam president, i had asked for the floor before. our voting yesterday went very well. it was quicker than normal – smooth, calm and there was not a single request for the time-consuming and irritating check. therefore my group proposes we should continue with electronic voting. some six months ago i was promised an exercise where the numbers of the reports and the numbers of the amendments would be shown alongside our voting. the new, much bigger screens can show the full voting list and save us much more time because we can vote immediately when we see the numbers in different colours on the screen. we will not need to wait for the interpretation. we will avoid the situation where those waiting for interpretation through a relay are voting on one issue while those who vote without relay are voting on the next item. we would save a lot of time. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for a very relevant report which focuses on the growing gender gap in the labour market at a time when we are all promising each other to fight wage disparities and work for real equality. women are now in the lowest paid unskilled jobs in industry and they risk further deterioration if we do not immediately introduce targeted continuing training. we need to require gender-disaggregated statistics, both on the level of wages and on the gender distribution in each sector. it is totally unacceptable that we still have such a poor level of knowledge in these areas. how can we change things if we cannot get a clear picture of what the situation really is? we also need to develop an industrial policy which takes account of the gender dimension and the specific challenges faced by women in relation to pay, maternity, precarious employment and monotonous, repetitive work. this must be done in cooperation with the social partners, and they must also ensure that women are adequately represented in their organisations.
i have to say, madam president, mr president of the commission! i am very glad that we have a package of legislation on the table now, because it is the very basis on which we can work towards realising our objectives and show that the eu can do more than just talk about it. we can actually deliver! as rapporteur for the package in parliament, i emphasized that national action plans should play a central role. these action plans were to be accompanied by continuing mid-term objectives and i am pleased to see that the commission has now incorporated this in its proposal. it is absolutely crucial to ensure that we start now and do not suddenly find ourselves in 2020 with unfulfilled objectives. parliament also stressed that action in all three sectors, electricity, heating and transport, is crucial and i am pleased to see that the commission will also require member states to set sectoral targets. but i would have liked to see the social dimension play a more prominent role in relation to energy prices, food prices and local involvement. but that is one of the things we have to continue to work on in parliament. i would like to congratulate the commission on the good result today.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, it is your task to give this parliament a good image as a serious scrutiniser of european affairs. i would therefore ask you to reschedule the vote on the treaty. the deadline for amendments to the report was set before we received the treaty from the committee. we have still not received the consolidated version you promised. that runs contrary to a unanimous decision adopted in the committee on constitutional affairs. i started asking questions on the basis of a private consolidated version and have already found misleading mistakes in the translations. for 29 years you and i have disagreed on constitutional matters, except for transparency. our disagreements have always been dealt with in a serious way, after proper scrutiny in the committee on constitutional affairs. i fight for transferring competences from the non-elected commission to this directly-elected parliament. we have proposed that no eu law should be passed without the approval of this house. how can we defend this report to the european parliament when you close our decision-making process before anyone in this house has read a readable version of the treaty? the last igc represents the most secretive negotiations on a treaty we have ever seen. i urge you to keep the debate on wednesday, but to move the vote so that we can be seen to be a serious parliament by all the citizens of europe. we are not part of the executive. we represent the voters.
mr president, in response to mr corbett, who says that a consolidated version is available in danish, i can confirm that there is a version based on a draft from october 2007, but that no consolidated version is yet available based on what was approved in lisbon on 13 december 2007. there are 7 000 more words in the new edition, and i would like mr swoboda – who seems to be the expert – to explain what the content of those 7 000 new words is. (laughter)
mr president, i urge all members to vote against the lifting of immunity in the tomczak case. we have had a very good debate in the chamber. everyone has agreed that we cannot allow poland to set double standards: one for mps at home and another, much stricter one, for meps here. the responsible commissioner, mr frattini, promised to send a letter to the polish minister for justice to insist on identical rules for waiving immunity. i talked with commissioner frattini after the meeting on 14 january, and met with him again two weeks ago, when he said that he had instructed the services to send the letter. last week i was in contact with his office. it confirmed that the letter had been sent, and that i would receive a copy of the letter the same day. then somebody suddenly called from commissioner frattini’s office telling me a different story, saying that the letter was still pending. so here we are, with no letter and no answer from the polish government. our rules are very clear: we have to have a vote. i would therefore ask you to vote against the waiving of immunity, and request that the case be referred back to the committee for a possible new decision once we have received the letter from commissioner frattini and the answer from poland.
for the pse group. i am not sure that this is the case. there is no doubt that if there has been much talk in the european public about the existence of a democratic deficit in the eu, it is not least because there has not been enough openness. perhaps this is due in particular to the lack of transparency in the use of the funds that the eu manages - that is, the funds that the eu pays to individual countries for good, well-intentioned projects. and that is a problem! fortunately, this is now a problem that is being addressed. fortunately, this is now a problem which the commission is finally recognising and actually doing something to solve, and the commission deserves great praise for this. you, mr kallas, deserve great personal praise for the enormous effort you have made in this connection. of course, there are some matters that need to be settled. that is why mr pomés ruiz has written a report. i support his report, which points out many criticisms that must of course be addressed. it is clear that the data available must be comparable, etc., but that is a trifle, because we have now taken the important decision in principle that there must of course be transparency. another very important decision, for which the commission also deserves praise, is the decision to create greater transparency in the so-called expert groups. it is simply not possible in a so-called democratic system to have people sitting who are not known by name. there are all kinds of democratic arguments for why this cannot be done, and from a financial point of view it is obviously not possible either. i would like to ask you, commissioner, to confirm an opinion which you made at the recent hearing of the committee on budgetary control on discharge. you assured us that this would of course also apply to the groups covered by the comitology procedure. there are many different types of expert groups. some of the most important groups are, in fact, those covered by the comitology procedure. and you made that commitment several times in the committee on budgetary control. could you repeat this in front of the whole assembly?
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is a pleasure to be here today. i think that a few years ago there were a few idiots who demanded transparency, but now parliament is made up of a few idiots who insist on transparency in the presentation of accounts. and we have a commissioner whom we should not criticise but praise, also for his personal efforts to get the weaker sections of the commission involved in transparency reforms. i am not elected to praise, however, i am elected to bring the thorns to the fore in the debate. i would therefore like to ask mr kallas whether there are any exceptions for next year in the agricultural sector, where there will be no full accounting on the internet and where we will not be able to see who is receiving what, and similarly in the other areas. will there be exceptions or will it be any expense that will be accounted for on the internet? and as for the working groups, will all the experts be named? finally, now that we have come this far in terms of openness, would it not be a good idea to send an apology to the heroes dorte schmidt-brown, hans-martin tillack, marta andreasen and all those who have been scolded over the years but who were the reason why you, mr kallas, were able to have such great success with your reforms?
the commission is not - madam president, i have to speak. i'm not going to let you do this. the presidency! my fellow members! i would like to begin by thanking all of you for the wonderful cooperation we have had in working on this package. it's been exciting in many ways. as the shadow rapporteurs know, this was my first report in my time in this parliament and it has been very instructive. it has also been very challenging to work on three reports and thus also with some other rapporteurs. it's been exciting! in the end, it has served our work to have three reports, which, although overlapping in some areas, mean that we now have a coherent piece of legislation for the internal market which will strengthen this market. there is a lot of talk about better legislation and although the commission has undoubtedly been at times in the head during our negotiations, i would still venture the assertion that our work here is an example of a good process. we have all worked very efficiently and have had a good result. we have also had many meetings to get to this point. i would like to highlight three things that we have fought for on the part of parliament in this framework for the marketing of products. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, and i hope that he will be able to give us a reply to the question. firstly, i think it is a great victory for consumers that we have strengthened the requirements for operators throughout the supply chain. everyone who comes into contact with a product becomes responsible for ensuring that the product is safe and meets eu requirements. directly from the manufacturer in china to the importer in cologne or to the distributor in copenhagen. in practical terms, this means that an importer will no longer be able to avoid liability if a product they have imported proves to be dangerous or otherwise not compliant with eu rules. secondly, we have just reached agreement on how to strengthen the ce marking. from our very first debate in committee it has been clear that it has been a little difficult to find out how to solve this problem. what was the mark? how could we strengthen control? was it even a credible guarantee of safety? the solution we have found means that we are maintaining and strengthening the ce marking. in future, member states will have to prosecute companies and manufacturers who misuse the ce marking. at the same time we will also have a strengthened market control, not least as a result of mr bries' report. this means that, in the future, we as consumers will be able to have much greater confidence in products bearing the mark. but - and this is the third point - we have also obliged the commission in the proposal to monitor the functioning of the mark. the ce marking is not necessarily the solution to all our problems of safety in the internal market. the label is primarily aimed at companies and the authorities responsible for market surveillance. that is why we have asked the commission in this decision to carry out a study on the functioning of the label and to carry out a thorough assessment of consumer safety labels in general. the commission is working on it and we are very much looking forward to the results. this decision is not legislation in the legal sense, but it contains a clear political commitment which will mean that future product legislation will be made on the basis of the framework we have created with the decision. this means, in concrete terms, that when we are now going to start the toy directive, we are going to take these definitions and these provisions on the economic operator and place them in the toy directive. this means that we will actually have a much safer internal market. i am quite sure that this will strengthen the security of the internal market for the benefit of consumers, but also for the benefit of economic operators. thank you for your cooperation, all of you, especially mr. stubb and mr. brie.
the commission is not - madam president, i have to speak. i would also like to thank you for all the many positive and good comments that have been made during today's debate. it shows that we have done a really good job over the last year and have taken care to include as many views as possible, so i am very pleased. i would like to make a few comments on some of the points that have been raised in today's debate. it's about the ce mark. it is absolutely true that in relation to consumers this is confusing and we need to do this study of a possible consumer safety label. but i would also like to stress that this package also gives us a much improved ce system with strengthened market surveillance and the obligation of the member states to prosecute abuse of the ce mark. the ce marking and the ce system will be significantly improved compared to what we have today. it will be better than the market surveillance authorities who use it as a tool. when a manufacturer deliberately affixes the ce marking, he is saying that he is complying with the eu rules. if he doesn't, he could be punished. he can't say he didn't know what he was doing. that's a marked improvement. what we have to deal with is the relationship with consumers, and the commissioner has responded very positively to the fact that there is a lot of work being done on this. there has been some discussion about whether it was right or wrong to make a first reading agreement. i think that today's debate has just shown that a lot of people have been involved, because there have been three reports with many shadow rapporteurs, etc. a great many members of parliament have been involved in the work and have therefore had the opportunity to speak. and with that result, i think we can be quite satisfied. finally, i would like to say to the shadow rapporteurs by name that i also greatly appreciate their work: mrs rühle, mr brie, mrs fourtou and mrs pleštinská have done a great deal, and the same applies, of course, to the secretariats of the groups and the committee secretariats. thank you so much for that. it has been a great pleasure to be a part of this work.
mr president, i would like to thank you. prime minister! i want to talk about a small corner of environmental policy. the initiatives of malmö city in the field of energy saving and the use of environmentally friendly transport are promising. i've been here, testing a few of the eco-friendly cars. the last time i drove in berlin in january was in a large mercedes s-type: a car of about 2 t. the car ran on conventional fuel and hydrogen. at the touch of a button, one type of fuel was changed to another - regardless of the speed of the car. the acceleration was apparently the same for both fuel types. the use of hydrogen as a fuel in automobiles has come a long way. the waste product of a hydrogen car is pure water and nothing else. with hydrogen as the common fuel for passenger cars, it would be possible to demand that only hydrogen cars be allowed to drive in the central parts of our cities. it will reduce pollution dramatically with fewer respiratory diseases and less corrosion on our old buildings as a result. i hope that sweden will promote such environmentally sound development.
the commission's vice-president - i'll answer to mrs jensen. pending the final reports of the investigations into the three accidents involving the dash8 q400 aircraft, the commission considers that it is premature to speculate on the factors that caused these specific events, as well as on possible design errors or construction defects. the task of the european aviation safety agency is of course to ensure the highest level of safety. the agency has followed and continues to follow the file closely, taking into account that 170 aircraft of this particular type have been delivered worldwide and are therefore in operation today. according to detailed information received from the air safety agency, several contacts took place between the agency, the civil aviation authorities of norway and denmark, the civil aviation authorities of canada and the aircraft manufacturer. this has led to a number of actions including the publication of the european aviation safety agency's airworthiness directives prescribing corrective actions. the detailed assessment of the landing gear retraction system of this type of aircraft led the agency to conclude that the safety of the aircraft was not affected. it was therefore recommended to the scandinavian authorities to allow the re-certification of the aircraft after, of course, taking the necessary corrective measures. the scandinavian authorities informed the air carrier of the conditions to be fulfilled in order to obtain the re-certification of the relevant aircraft fleet. but the company has not yet provided the evidence to consider that their aircraft comply with the required checks and modifications. at this stage, the european aviation safety agency was not informed that the danish authorities had restored the airworthiness certificates for the sas q400 fleet. of course, the european aviation safety agency is still in contact with the danish authorities to clarify this matter. that, mr president, is the answer i wanted to give to mrs jensen.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank mr barrot for his explanation. it is true that the disagreement i mentioned in the question may have been partly rectified, but it is still the case that the danish aviation authorities do not allow sas planes to take to the air until they have solved the technical problems, while other airlines actually fly planes that have these technical problems. and i think the deeply principled problem here - apart from the discrimination between sas scandinavian airlines on the one hand and other airlines such as flybe, augsburg, tyrolean and luxair on the other - is that we as citizens may not be able to count on air safety. what will you do, mr barrot, to ensure that i can feel as secure in the common aviation authority as in the national aviation authorities, because that is what this is all about?
mr president, i am still offering a bottle of very good wine to any person who can give me just one example of a law which can be adopted with the constitution and not with the lisbon treaty. in my view, the legal obligations are identical. the difference is in presentation only. sarkozy’s mini-treaty will now be around 3 000 pages instead of the 560 pages in the rejected constitution. the majority has the right to endorse the treaty, but you have no right to refuse normal parliamentary scrutiny of this lisbon treaty. i have asked more than 700 serious questions on the interpretation of the different articles. you do not know the answers. you cannot explain why the danish translation has forgotten the new ‘additional citizenship’ or the abolition of the right of national governments to propose their own commissioners. most of you have not read, and cannot read, the treaty, because you have still not received the full content of the deliberations of the intergovernmental conference in a consolidated version. you approve secrecy instead of transparency. you approve a reduction in parliamentary democracy instead of insisting on this parliament’s right to represent our voters, scrutinise on behalf of our voters and question the executive on behalf of the half a million citizens we represent.
mr president, mr corbett has now shown us a so-called ‘consolidated’ version of the treaty 10 times. that version has not been consolidated in such a way as to enable a decision, because it shows the text as it would appear if we had already approved the lisbon treaty. a consolidated version is an edition in which text to be introduced is shown in bold type and text that will disappear is shown in italics, enabling it to be considered in a proper way. commissioner wallström promised us such a version ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to thank you. the treaty of lisbon is, as everyone knows, the constitutional treaty without flags and without music. it is actually nice that it is said out loud here, because it does not happen in denmark. in denmark, it is better to say that there is nothing substantial in this treaty, because the government believes that it can make the citizens understand that they must not be allowed to vote on it. and yet we are faced with the most far-reaching expansion of the european union ever: more power, more political areas than ever before and more disempowerment of the european nations than ever before. it is extremely unwise for the old core countries of the european union to force all of us not to ask our own people. it will have negative effects. the people feel they've been deprived of their authority and will react against it. a union is not created at the negotiating table of the european union. it can only work if it grows out of the will of the people, and this union does not. that is why i intend to vote against.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the citizens of europe are crucial to eu legislation. they are not just victims of the violations in naples. they are often key players in a host of environmental cases. as watchdogs, they monitor the proper implementation of the law in all corners of europe, and in many cases they are the only ones doing so. the eu should also support its citizens by giving them a stronger position. when they point out breaches of community law, their complaints must be treated seriously and with respect. i very much hope that this is not an attempt by the commission to stifle a number of these complaints, because that would be bad. so a big thank you to monica frassoni for bringing these threats to our attention. on the contrary, her excellent report is now an important step in the right direction. the lisbon treaty gives the citizens of the eu a stronger position, but if it is to be anything but a mere ornament, their contribution to the eu must be taken seriously.
mr president, i would like to thank you. comitology is the science of how to limit democracy without the voters realizing it. first, power is transferred from voters and elected representatives to officials and lobbyists behind closed doors in brussels, and then votes are taken according to complicated rules that no one can remember, and no journalist can write about, and no textbook author can explain. the point is simply that the unelected in the commission decide unless a qualified majority can be established against the commission. it is legislative power that is turned into executive power - it is open legislation that is turned into secret decrees - it is majority democracy that is turned into minority rule. it's not exactly like the dictatorship, but it does resemble a touch of mussolini's corporate ideas. the new interinstitutional agreement will allow parliament to put a matter back on the agenda, but only if the right and left in the chamber agree and can produce an absolute majority of members behind it. i would like to see the commission and the council agreeing on a common position on this matter. bring democracy to all legislation! let us make it a basic principle that a majority of elected representatives must be behind any law, whether it be from the national parliaments or here in the european parliament! legislation by officials, ministers and lobbyists should be a thing of the past, but unfortunately it is being cemented in the lisbon treaty. so that is another good reason to put that treaty to a referendum!
mr president, i will use my speech to propose a reform of the way we deal with the annual programmes. until now the elected members of national parliaments and the european parliament had no say. the annual programme is initiated and adopted by the non-elected in the commission. member states coordinate their priorities through the working programmes of the shifting presidencies. we discuss both; we amend nothing. we do not represent our voters in the very important agenda-setting function. instead, we should insist on one joint working programme for all institutions in the next year. the commission could draft a detailed proposal with annexes of all proposals for laws they intend to propose, including their legal base. then the national parliaments should deal with it in their sectoral committees for a first reading, then in their european committees and finally in their plenaries. national parliaments should meet in cosac and formally adopt the working programme. parliament should have its own readings, and then the european union would be governed bottom-up instead of top-down. it would be directed by elected representatives of our peoples instead of being governed by civil servants and lobbyists behind closed doors. when the programme is adopted, the national parliaments could then start the reading of the concrete proposals for ‘subsidiarity and proportionality’ and decide the legal base. then the european institutions could take over, and all laws could be passed – both in the council, with the support of 75% of the member states, and in the european parliament, with the normal majority. then europe would be a democracy, instead of the mixture of the ideas of machiavelli and mussolini we build on today.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, madam commissioner, mr minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. mrs jeggle has again done an excellent job as rapporteur, and i should like to thank her for that. european milk producers are currently facing major challenges due to the strongly increasing demand for milk products from the far east in particular. it is a very positive problem. at the same time, the economy of production is being eroded by the sharp rise in feed prices, because we in the eu prevent the import of feed that is used by the countries with which we compete. in order to survive, it is necessary to allow quota increases now. otherwise we will lose a unique opportunity for the european dairy industry if we do not do this, and instead we will wait until 2015, when we will hopefully abolish the quotas. my group wants to liberalize milk production in europe through a market economy and free competition, and the quota system is therefore not appropriate. by raising production by at least 2 per cent and then re-evaluating whether further quota increases are needed, we are supporting and maintaining a strong and forward-looking milk production in europe and we are creating a smooth transition to the abolition of the quota system introduced in 1983 - incidentally as a transitional arrangement - due to large stockpiling of sweet milk powder and butter. fortunately, this is no longer the case, because the market now wants more milk products. let us give european milk producers the opportunity to do so.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commissioner knows that in denmark, in the general debate, agricultural aid is very unpopular. we are aware that the attractiveness of milk production in europe is due not least to artificially high prices and to the restriction of competition from third countries. the situation has led to overproduction, which has been rationed by quotas. i do not want to go into all the accidents that have resulted from this, but i would just point out that if the commission wants to increase the quotas to meet the growing demand, that is not enough. quotas must be eliminated completely and market distortions removed. we must therefore have a proper reform of the common agricultural policy, with the phasing out of the area aid much more rapidly than is currently the case. the market must be properly liberalised and that should be the main objective of the reform. in addition, we can look at the possibility of continuing to support limited, selected areas where there are good arguments for milk production despite economic conditions. liberalisation must be part of the agricultural policy of the european union. a policy that integrates environmental sustainability into the general conditions of the market and ensures free access for developing countries to eu markets on fair terms. we have a long way to go before we can be proud of the eu's agricultural policy.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the rapporteur, mr goepel, has, in his usual skill, drawn up a report containing the instruments necessary for a more transparent and simplified agricultural policy. there is also a strong element of maintaining a common agricultural policy in the eu after 2013. thank you for that! we support the rapporteur's position on continued decoupling, so that the 2003 reform is implemented in all member states. we support the rapporteur's views on market instruments and risk management when we talk about crises, infectious diseases, animal welfare and the environment, modulation and degressivity. we also support the further development of rural policy and increased emphasis on biofuels. there is a need for a strong effort to cross-compliance and simplification, because the developments taking place are taking farmers away from the fields and from the barn and bringing them into the office to make schedules and respond to controls. the milk quotas should be abolished in 2015 and there is therefore reason to raise milk quotas now and make a soft landing of at least 2% in 2009. the increasing demand for dairy products must provide the basis for european milk production so that we can supply what the market wants. there is a lot of liberalisation and market economy in the report which the commission should use as a basis for the play in may when the health check of agricultural policy is due to be tabled.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, president of the council and president of the commission, together with my irish colleague, kathy sinnott, i have made a proposal for a new protocol to be amended to the lisbon treaty before its final approval. it will outlaw a revolutionary decision by the european court of justice dated 18 december 2007. a latvian company wanted to build a school in sweden with latvian workers being paid much less than swedish workers for similar jobs. swedish trade unions established a blockade. this action has now been deemed illegal by the european court of justice. they will only allow the treaty principle on free movement of goods and services to be moderated by the other fundamental principle of the right to strike if there is a risk to public security, order or health. a normal salary does not count. collective bargaining does not count. the scandinavian flexisecurity model, the voluntary cooperation between trade unions and employers, can be scrapped. foreign workers in foreign companies in ireland may now work for the irish minimum salary of eur 9 an hour. it is illegal for irish trade unions to act against this court judgment except in relation to the minimum wage. it is even worse in my country, where we do not have a minimum wage. this court judgment is a disaster and must be annulled by a new wording in the treaties or a legally binding protocol. you can see our proposal on my website. i urge the slovenian presidency and the president of the commission to raise the question at the summit. i have a question for the commission and council: when will we have a consolidated treaty so that we can understand the content?
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament voted against the report on a health check for the common agricultural policy, opposing the improvement of the cross-compliance system and opposing the transfer of money from direct support for rural development proposed by the commission. the delegation considers that, for environmental reasons in particular, it is necessary to introduce a compulsory 20% modulation and to strengthen the cross-compliance system.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, 750 million women are living in poverty and these women are fighting for their own survival and that of their families, and we as europeans must fight with them for these rights to a better life. the role of women is invaluable. yet their abilities and potential are not valued. their access to education, employment and property is severely restricted. it should be a key task for the eu to ensure that women are at the centre of its development work. as things stand, our policies too often deteriorate the already low status of women, and i therefore welcome mrs uca's report. it is important that this report is not weakened, as many in the ppe and uen are trying to do with their amendments which remove all mention of women having sexual and reproductive rights. these rights are, as has been said many times already, essential to women's ability to take responsibility for their own lives and thus for the lives of their families. often it is a matter of life and death for them. women must have the right and the opportunity to say no to avoid violence and to get an education and the opportunity to create an independent economy. it is vital that development comes out of our development aid, and it is both immoral and stupid not to have women at the centre of this work. unfortunately, as has been said, the political will is lacking, and that is why many of us support the proposal for a high representative of women in the european union. he or she must ensure that they are involved in political and social affairs throughout the world with the influence they should have as half the world. women must not be made victims and wretches. we all need them to come on an equal footing with all of us.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when we talk about the balkans, we must look at the region as a whole. the eu's long-term objective is to include all the countries of the balkans. in order to achieve this objective, results are also expected from the countries. a common european future is a common task for the eu countries and for all the countries of the balkans. in the nordic countries we know of some historical conflicts, but today we are working together. like the nordic countries, the balkan region is bound together by a common history, a common language and a common culture. it should therefore be possible to set in motion a process of cooperation which ensures peace and stability. at present, there are a number of cooperation agreements in the region between the countries. why not take it a step further? the balkan countries, inspired by nordic cooperation, could establish a cooperation forum in the style of the nordic council or the baltic council. by intensifying the already existing regional political cooperation in the form of a balkan council, the countries will be able to enter into practical forward-looking cooperation which will provide an opportunity to stabilise the region and make those of the countries which are not yet members of the eu or official candidate countries more ready for accession.
the alde group is not in favour of this. madam president, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr lewandowski, for a good report and also express my satisfaction with the new procedure and the more open dialogue and early information of the committee that we have seen. as many have noted, 2009 is a special year. although the lisbon treaty has not yet been ratified by all countries, we must take into account its entry into force in 2009 in our budgeting. for the european parliament, the new powers, in which it has influence, for example, on the agricultural budget and on legal policy, mean that some priorities must be changed in order to meet the new tasks. and then there are the elections to the european parliament and the member states, which also affect the budget. in the alde group we are pleased that the draft budget of parliament is below 20% of the administrative expenditure in the eu. it is not certain that this will be possible in the coming years, but it is important that we keep administrative costs in check. i would also like to express my great satisfaction on behalf of the alde group at the outline of a new model for the remuneration of members' assistants. we have long wanted a statute for the assistants in the alde group, and the right solution is for parliament to take over the administration, and this is reflected in the 2009 budget. there have been considerable savings in the purchase of buildings over the last 10 years, but i agree that we have now reached a point where this policy needs to be revised or reviewed and that building policy as a whole should be given a service review. the other institutions have yet to see a breakthrough, but here too there is reason to keep a watchful eye on the increasing expenditure on buildings. finally, the question of how the future eu foreign minister and president of the european council will be financed is an important one, but we shall return to this later.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to start by informing ms haug and the other members of this house that the commission has not only examined this resolution, but can also agree with a significant number of points, not least in respect of the principles of budgetary discipline and sound financial management. we appreciate this opportunity to hold an exchange of views at an early stage in the 2009 annual budget procedure. in that spirit i also fully share the view expressed in your draft resolution that we should start reflecting on the consequences of the lisbon treaty on the budget procedure. the commission has also taken note of parliament’s continued support for activity-based budgeting and its proposal to come forward with ideas for pilot projects and preparatory actions before the summer. this will no doubt improve the possibility of a smooth and timely implementation. the commission also appreciates parliament’s detailed examination of the 2009 aps, which was the subject of an intensive debate last march. the aps serves as a consistent reference framework for preparation of the preliminary draft budget and the commission’s legislative and work programme, although it does not predetermine the final outcome, which will take account of the european parliament and council priorities. it is on this basis that the commission will adopt the preliminary draft budget for 2009. in terms of policy development and programming implementation, 2009 is the third year of the current programming period and should be a year of consolidation. accordingly, the commission has not proposed, in the aps, any major changes in financial programming. it has, however, proposed three main initiatives with a limited impact on the allocation of financial resources in 2009. firstly, as part of our policy on the integrated management of the external borders, there is a reinforcement of frontex in the budget, as already decided, in 2008, by the budget authority. secondly, to follow up the eu’s new strategy on central asia adopted by the council in june 2007, the commission is proposing to frontload assistance to that area in 2009, while keeping the total allocation over the period the same. thirdly, in line with the bali road map, it has proposed reinforcing support for the environment and the sustainable management of natural resources in developing countries. in making these proposals, the commission has taken care to carefully limit the impact on the available margins, and will continue to do so when presenting its pdb. i shall conclude by stressing an important point. during the course of the 2008 budget procedure, a number of joint declarations were agreed with regard to agencies, both executive and centralised, and the detailed information that should be available to the budget authority. the commission will implement those provisions during the 2009 budget procedure, and i am confident this will afford parliament a clearer picture of the resources available.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. as many have said, 2009 will be an exciting year for the eu in many ways. the election of the european parliament and the re-appointment of the commission, together with the expected entry into force of the lisbon treaty, will make the practical work on the 2009 budget quite difficult. that is why we have chosen to make this year's budgetary process a dress rehearsal of the new rules so that we can learn from them. in future we will have to start the budgetary process earlier in the year and involve the committees more closely. and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs haug, for the good initiatives she has already taken in this respect. today we are discussing the first comments on the eu budget for 2009. it is important that there is a clear link between the political priorities, also as they are expressed in the commission's annual legislative programme, so that the eu budget appears as an integrated political instrument. the problem here is that the multiannual financial framework is too restrictive in a number of respects. the eu has a common energy and climate policy, but there is no common funding to support this policy. the part of the budget that funds research, innovation, education and transport is clearly too small. similarly, the framework for justice and asylum policy and for cultural and health policy is far too restrictive. and the eu's foreign policy is chronically underfunded - priorities like kosovo and palestine show the challenge. it is therefore important that we now discuss the forthcoming mid-term review of the budget to ensure that the eu can continue to finance important policy priorities beyond 2009. we need flexibility and better opportunities for re-prioritization within the framework.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. i thank mr adamou for a very fine report and for the excellent cooperation in preparing this report to date. we need more bodies - i think we can agree on that - but it is important that this be done properly. cooperation is good, and i personally believe that we need proper information, better information, so that people feel safe about becoming organ donors. so that they know that everything will be done with respect, including the relatives, who are in the worst situation of their lives, and so that they can know that the relatives are also well taken care of. if we can talk about this issue in this way, something good will come of it. but the need for organs must not lead to commercialisation. i think we are all very happy and fully agreed that it is now so clear that we must fight the trafficking that is taking place. it is regrettable that we have not sufficiently involved europol in this, because this is really criminal. even where it is not illegal, it is still a crime to make poor people sell their kidneys to support their families. and let me say in conclusion that no matter how many insurance policies we come up with, we have to be careful because we are under tremendous pressure. i think, for example, that a phrase such as 'people are dying because there are no organs' is poisonous. people die because they're sick. and we never have enough organs. there are some people who are so lucky that they can get a quick organ and because of that save their lives. and it is to have more cases of this kind that we must have this report adopted. but we'll never get to the point where we have enough organs. even if we were to abolish all speed limits in europe, that would not succeed.
the commission is not mr president, i must begin by reminding you that we are now nearing the end of an extremely important exercise. if we analyse the role of parliament in relation to the other institutions, we can say that we have three main tasks. we are helping to make laws for the european countries and their peoples. we help to set the budget, that is, to decide how eu funds are to be used. and finally, there's the last role, where we act as a watchdog. parliament is the watchdog of the people, so to speak. the exercise we are concluding here today is perhaps the most important part of this very monitoring function: it is the part where we follow the commission and the other institutions closely in how they manage the funds and, of course, not least evaluate how things work in the member states, where we know that about 80% of the eu's funds are managed. that said, i also naturally commend my colleagues from the other groups. it is a joint parliament that is voting on the report today. i think we have had excellent cooperation in the committee on budgetary control. i would like to highlight in particular the shadow rapporteurs, who have, i think, dealt with the matter very constructively. that is why we have been able to put such massive pressure on the commission, as is the case, and why we have been able to engage in such constructive dialogue with the commission. let me start by saying a few things about what is positive - i'll get to the negative - but let me start by saying a few things about what is positive compared to previous years. there is no doubt that we have made great progress in the field of agriculture in terms of controlling the funds. the so-called integrated financial control system - and i am sure that many people in europe who are listening to this speech are not saying much about it - means that a completely new and much more efficient way of controlling the eu's agricultural resources has been introduced. the system is extremely efficient. the court of auditors has itself emphasized this on several occasions. we already know that in a few years' time virtually all the funds for agricultural policy will be subject to this highly efficient system, which certainly deserves praise. in addition, last year we had a number of very strong criticisms of research policy. here again, it must be noted that the commission has taken our criticism very seriously and has implemented an action plan which has ensured that a number of these problems are being solved. the commission deserves great praise for this. finally, we are of course very pleased with the initiatives which have been taken in the area of openness. we now have transparency about the recipients of eu aid, both in relation to social funds and agricultural expenditure. and we are now getting the names of the participants in the various working groups of the council and the commission, which has been fought for in this house for many years. the commission has now agreed to provide this information. these are the very positive things to say. but it is clear that this process has been about those areas where we had some criticisms. anyone who has followed the process knows that there are two main areas: the structural funds and foreign policy, that is, external affairs. as regards the structural funds, the court of auditors concluded very clearly that 12% of the funds paid should never have been paid. 12%, or almost eur 4 billion. it is clear that this is a completely unacceptable situation. that was the starting point for the exercise which we are concluding today. we have had several consultations and i have personally, together with the committee, had a very close dialogue with the commission. when i, as rapporteur, now end up recommending discharge, it is only because we have achieved a number of results. the commission has actually initiated a number of reforms - i believe there are 37 very specific points that are now being implemented. it has been adopted by the college of commissioners. in some areas it is a matter of introducing more stringent and more controls, and in other areas it is a matter of simplifying controls to make them more effective. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have very clear criteria for how to give feedback so that we and the public can check that this is actually having a positive effect. we must remember two things: firstly, it is obvious that the money wrongly paid in 2006 - which is the subject of this procedure - must be recovered. we believe that we have now secured that. but we also need guarantees that this will not happen again in the future. it's probably that important. we believe that this objective has been achieved with the new procedures proposed by the commission. of course, nice words are not enough. although we have said that we accept the reforms that have been put forward, we will follow up on this matter and we will follow the process very closely. i therefore also put forward an amendment today which i understand the commission is prepared to support. i have received a signal from mr kallas that it might be an acceptable solution if the commission came to the committee on budgetary control once a month and gave us the opportunity to discuss the progress made in this area. it would be incredibly beneficial for both parties. let me say a few words about the other area where we had major problems. it's about foreign policy. it is more specifically about the question of iraq. we know that the eu is providing some funds for the reconstruction of iraq - there are many good political reasons for this. we chose iraq as an example. we would like to have a list of concrete projects partly or fully financed by the eu in iraq through the un and the world bank. it turned out to be a very big problem to get such a list. it took months. the data that was first told to be on the list was not there anyway, and it became a long game of back and forth before we finally got the information we needed. that is why we are now, of course, in fact able to give discharge in this area. the most important question in this connection is, of course, what about the future? iraq was just an example. what about the well over 100 other countries where the eu is providing support for various activities? the commission has now committed itself - which i acknowledge and which i think is absolutely necessary - to making the final beneficiary, that is to say the final recipient of the aid, publicly available from 2007. for all these reasons, i recommend that we discharge. there are a number of criticisms to be made of the commission and of the way things are done in the member states. i would also say that we have reached a result through a good dialogue with the commission. this means that we can now recommend the clearance of the accounts for 2006. there are still areas where we would like to see more progress made. we would very much like to have 'national declarations of assurance', which is the term we choose to use here in parliament - that is to say, national audit declarations every year, signed by the finance minister of the country concerned. we believe that this would still be a very useful tool in the fight against fraud, embezzlement and the lack of transparency in the individual countries with regard to eu funds. with that final wish, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to speak in the first place.
for the uen group. i am not sure that this is the case. for the ninth time, i have the opportunity to participate in the process by which parliament approves the accounts of the commission, the council, parliament and the other eu institutions. again this year, we've found major irregularities. the commission's management of the structural funds has been particularly bad, with almost eur 4 billion - almost dkk 30 billion - wrongly paid out. for reasons of time, i shall concentrate my remarks on this. we are again saying that this is too bad, and we are again being assured that things will certainly get better. we have had such assurances every year and we continue to have them because the whole system of support is so cumbersome, so unreasonable and so unmanageable. we have raised the key question in the committee on budgetary control: what is the effect of the enormous redistribution of money throughout the eu between its members? there is no visible improvement in the countries receiving aid. they're also behind next year and need support again. of the 15 old eu member states, greece, spain, portugal and ireland have received aid every single year since joining. 11 member states, the old member states, pay the entire debt net. all new members are, of course, supported. countries that are reforming their economies, that are working efficiently and where citizens are willing to pay high taxes, have to pay countries that are not going to reform their outdated structures and are not going to collect very much in taxes. the eu's aid policy is largely a sleeping bag! why reform when you can send the bill for not reforming to the citizens of other countries? this whole redistribution is pointless. not only do many billions go into the wrong pockets, but the very philosophy of aid is sick, because it rewards countries that do not want to reform and punishes those that do exactly what the eu needs. the eu could do its job with 15% of the current budget! then we would also be free of all these economic scandals. i therefore personally intend to vote against the approval of the commission's accounts. i would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues on the committee on budgetary control for a very great and skilful job.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we have come a long way in the fight against fraud and openness in the eu. when i was elected for the first time in 1979, the group chairmen took the lead in taking from the cashier! first a limousine with a chauffeur paid for by parliament and then into the members' coffers and get business class pay for the same journey and some more! the chairmen are now at the head of the cleanup, but there is a long way to go and we have had a major setback with the majority decision not to publish the internal audit report. how can we be guardians of others if we dare not cleanse ourselves? the large groups bear a great deal of responsibility for the fact that the percentage of votes cast for parliament next time may fall below 40% and seriously weaken the legitimacy of the elected representatives. i had hoped that one day i would be able to vote for an annual report because there was no more to criticize, but the large groups again recommend that we sign the commission's accounts, even though we still do not have access to full control of the accounts. what would an accountant say to an accounting where he doesn't have access to all the records? for the 14th consecutive year, the court of auditors has declared that they cannot confirm the accuracy of the underlying transactions, so unfortunately for the 29th consecutive year i have to vote against the approval again. but i would also like to thank my colleagues on the committee on budgetary control and others in the house for many years of joint efforts to clean up the eu. when i started, i met a guy in the budget called "scummy milk". he received dkk 1.3 billion and was the largest danish recipient of eu funds. i could not even get a statistical breakdown of what, for example, the largest recipients of the money received. from next year, all the beneficiaries of agricultural aid will be online. four years ago, the commission's working groups were top secret. we are now also getting the advisers online thanks to our joint pressure, and we also have good support in the commission in siim kallas. i want to thank you for that. i shall miss our working community when i leave parliament on 9 may. thank you, colleagues! we have come a long way, but not far enough, and i'm sure you'll continue the work.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i should like to thank the honourable members, the rapporteur and the members of the committee on budgetary control. the discussion on discharge has been very intensive this year, and the commission has made several commitments to follow up parliament’s observations and recommendations. we will continue this intensive process, starting in may, when there will be a discussion in the committee on budgetary control about our plans for next year. this is an intensive process, and i would like to assure parliament that we take our commitments very seriously and are going ahead with the proposals and ideas we have in common on increasing accountability, on cooperation with member states and on increasing the responsibility of member states in shared management issues. that is our common line, and we will work seriously on all those action plans and proposals. there are different types of agencies. firstly, there are executive agencies, which are clearly the responsibility of the commission, and for which you give discharge to the commission. we have some executive agencies, but have decided to have a moratorium on the establishment of new executive agencies. what are the concerns surrounding traditional agencies? the problem of governance is a serious one, and there are several weak points as regards how to administer and handle those agencies. we should probably hold serious discussions on governance issues, but we should also not underestimate the political observations on their work – what they are doing and what the real benefits are – and parliament has a very important role to play in evaluating and assessing how successful they are. neither should we underestimate the positive aspects of both decentralisation and of having european bodies spread across europe. that is not such a bad idea, if everybody considers his or her own country. i should like to thank you once again for all your contributions, remarks, debates and discussions. we will continue with our commitments and action plans.
the commission is not mr president, i should like to thank commissioner kallas. it is clear that we have experienced a process in which the waves have been a little high from time to time. there has been a conflict between us in parliament and the commission, but it is a conflict which we have managed to turn into a dialogue. it has led to some good results and some good promises from the commission and also to some very concrete action plans with concrete deadlines and concrete success criteria. we must stick to that when some of our colleagues from the more sceptical groups say: 'it is just words, and that has been said before'. that's not true! it is not just a matter of words, but of very concrete actions which the commission is now promising to take. some measures have already been taken. and there are also very specific deadlines that we will be able to meet. we now even have to have a commissioner visiting the committee once a month to follow this process. this is truly a great step forward! that being said, i would like to end by reminding you why these problems arise. one reason is that many of the funds are managed under shared management. this means that 80% of eu funds are also managed in the member states. it is the commission's responsibility to follow the treaty and that is the cross they must bear. that is why we are strongly critical of the commission, but in reality much of the problem lies within the member states. that is why we in this parliament are so strong supporters of the idea of a national audit declaration once a year, signed by the correct political level, probably the finance minister. it is already in operation in a number of countries: denmark, the netherlands, the united kingdom, sweden. if we could achieve something similar in all the eu countries, we would see that these audit obligations would be taken more seriously in the individual countries. i think you would find that we would have a really good tool to actually tackle the areas where it is not working in individual countries.
rapporteur. − mr president, there is an oral compromise amendment to replace amendments 4 and 2. it reads as follows: ‘welcomes the commitment by the commission to give a monthly report in the committee in charge on the implementation of the 2006 discharge follow-up, where every month one commissioner in charge will present the development in his of her area of responsibility, covering national declarations and annual summaries, external actions and implementation of the action plan to strengthen the community’s supervisory role under shared management of structural actions;’.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the common agricultural policy, since its inception in 1957, has ensured us an abundance of food at reasonable prices. but now consumers are facing very large price increases in bread and milk because of increased demand. and especially because there have been several years of very poor harvests around the world. europeans are beginning to feel the effects of this, and the poor are already feeling the pain. for the poorest developing countries and those dependent on food imports, the situation is completely unsustainable. but for developing countries that export food, the high prices are beneficial, as they increase their income. i would like to stress that we should distinguish between shortages of supply and high prices. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the world bank has estimated that the demand for food will increase by 60% by 2030. this is particularly the case with increased demand from countries such as china and india, where demand for food is increasing as wealth increases. in addition, we have the lowest stocks of cereals in the last 60 years - stocks are now at a critical low. another poor harvest in 2008 could lead to food shortages that no one ever thought possible. we must recognize the gravity of the situation, we must act, and we must seize the opportunities at our disposal. we must find the right balance between environmental considerations and the need to produce enough food to meet the demand that exists. in this connection we cannot avoid debating biotechnology and confronting the campaign of fear which is being waged around genetically modified food with factual information. in my view, there are a number of potential solutions to the present situation in biotechnology. the fear of gmos in europe has absurd consequences. instead of importing feed in the form of soybeans and corn for our livestock, we feed them instead with grain products that could be used for food. blaming biofuels for the rising food prices must also be based on a lack of knowledge of the facts, as food is not used for biofuels in europe. we have a lot of good cards on our hands. we must first of all take advantage of the agricultural sector which is ready to take up the challenge. we must develop agriculture instead of the tendencies towards decline which have been on the political agenda in recent years. the environmental gains we have made must be maintained, but we have plenty of opportunities to maintain the environmental gains while increasing our production. we have, for example, political decisions on how much fertiliser we must put on a field of cereals. of course, it should be factual and professional considerations which prevail.
the committee on transport and tourism has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, as rapporteur for the committee on transport, i too must express my great satisfaction with the result we have achieved today. galileo will in future be able to ensure more efficient, safer and environmentally friendly transport. for all modes of transport by road, rail, air and sea, this system will provide better management and control, and this applies to private companies, it applies to the authorities, and it applies to better information for us as citizens. many have asked: why do we need galileo when we already have gps? but we only have gps to borrow. the eu has no power over this technology, and as satellite navigation becomes central to our society, the eu should have both its own infrastructure and a high level of knowledge and expertise. now, when we send this 31⁄2 billion of taxpayers' money into space for galileo, we have to make sure that the desired results come out of it. it is therefore important that parliament has a say in the way things go. i would like to thank mrs barsi-pataky for the good work she has done on this report. i would like to thank mr schinas and mrs niebler, as chairman of the committee on industry, for the good cooperation and for the fact that we have been a team in the negotiations, and i would like to thank commissioner barrot, vice-president barrot, for his efforts to make the final arrangements. last but not least, i would like to congratulate the slovenian presidency on the excellent result we have achieved.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the commissioner for his explanation. there has been a lot of strong reaction to a number of recent judgments of the court. some observers believe that, in the light of the laval judgment, the treaty of lisbon should be amended and the court of justice should be restrained. i would say that this is a far-fetched approach, and that it is because some people want to put gravel in the machine and try to convince people that the lisbon treaty may be a problem for the legal security of employees. on the contrary, the treaty of lisbon means greater rights for employees. other observers, like anne van lancker, believe that the posting of workers directive should be amended. again, i would say no. i don't think we should do that as a first step. i believe that we must first, as the commissioner has proposed, do a thorough job of looking at how the posting directive is actually being implemented in practice and what the possibilities are for safeguarding against social dumping within the framework of the legislation in force. i also think we should wait for the reaction of the member states. i am thinking in particular of the laval judgment. the final judgment has not been delivered in the laval case in sweden, and there are many aspects of this judgment, both a clear discrimination against foreign companies, which we cannot support, but also unclear information for the company. in denmark, a government committee has been set up to bring together labour market experts - legal experts and social partners - to examine how recent judgments are in line with the danish model, which is contractual and only modestly regulated by legislation. i think it will be useful to see what this committee comes up with. it is a rapidly working committee which has completed its work in june. as is often the case in politics, the devil is in the detail, and it is therefore important that we maintain a balanced attitude to these issues. it is only a year and a half since we last had a thorough discussion in this parliament on the posting directive and we held a consultation of the social partners. everyone said that the directive was good, but difficult to implement. the wage-earners don't know their rights. employers do not know their obligations well enough. we therefore concluded that better information and better cooperation are needed, as you, commissioner, are now proposing. we also suggested that the dublin agency, for example, which represents both governments and the social partners, should be used to develop good practice in this area. i would very much like to hear what is happening in this area. i understand the fear of social dumping, but i think we must approach this matter wisely. it will take a long time to amend the posting of workers directive, and it is therefore important that we look for all possibilities to secure the basis for flexible labour markets such as the danish under the current rules. it is a question of ensuring that we can actually have flexible labour markets. the conflict is not threatened by the sentences passed, but there must be balance in the conflict. i think it is important to stress that the rights of workers are strengthened in the lisbon treaty and that both the social partners and governments across borders must work together to make legislation work better and to make it work more smoothly. this is the way forward!
mr president, i would like to thank you. when we discussed the lisbon treaty in february, i and other colleagues proposed that parliament should demand that the right to collective action should be a matter for the member states. unfortunately, a majority of you voted against, and one must ask the question: why did you do it? the only logical explanation and the only logical consequence is that the cross-border pursuit of maximum profit by employers will eventually take precedence over the right of employees to defend themselves against social dumping. of course you may think so, but then we must stop talking about a social europe. the wage-earners in any country must have the unconditional right to conflict to ensure that migrant workers receive at least as much as they themselves. it's not discrimination. we do not think that migrant workers should be paid less than people already in the country. we are against discrimination and therefore we must act. the alternative is social dumping. a spiral to the bottom. that is why we must ensure by all means the free and unrestricted conflict - at least through a legally binding protocol to the lisbon treaty.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. madam president, i would like to thank ana maria gomes for a very wise and balanced report and for an excellent cooperation. in the eu we are used to being number one in africa in trade and development, but with china's growing investment this could change quickly. the eu's presence in africa is not without problems, but china's presence threatens to develop in a most unfortunate direction. china's enormous demand for raw materials and energy is driving chinese investment, without much concern for the healthy development of society. instead, china should focus on job creation through proper investment, i.e. stop bringing its own labour, and give priority to the productive sector and processing on the ground, in africa. but good governance must also be part of investment policy. so far, china has refused to include such considerations without worrying whether it is supporting corrupt and violent regimes and contributing to the oppression of the civilian population. china must play by the rules of democracy and respect human rights, rather than simply offering itself as a cheap alternative. the chinese can do so much for the africans. i would like to add to what i have already said one of the main problems facing africa: population growth. here china has unique knowledge and experience that can be of great use. and imagine, ladies and gentlemen, if china were to take back the arms shipment that many have mentioned today, which was sent to zimbabwe and is now being rejected in several ports, for example in mozambique and south africa. china will then show itself to be a great power that listens to others and wants to live up to the responsibilities that come with a seat on the un security council. and that is what the report calls for: the creation of a good dialogue between the eu, china and africa for the benefit of all parties.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, commissioner barroso was on a sales mission the other day in ireland. he regretted that president bush had met 16 different council presidents during his eight years and praised the lisbon treaty for establishing a joint president. we are currently following the battles between candidates for each competing party, from state to state, on television channels until the american president is elected. how will we choose our president? he will not be elected! there is no election campaign to follow on tv; there are no candidates for primary selection; there are no individuals we can vote for. in europe, we are leaving it to 27 prime ministers to meet behind closed doors and select a politician from the past: a politician like mr blair, who cannot be elected any longer in his own country, or the former austrian chancellor, who was voted out of his job in austria and who may be a candidate of compromise for chancellor merkel, prime minister brown and president sarkozy – the three european leaders who will elect the president for all of us. they will meet privately behind closed doors and appoint the president whom we shall send to the us and latin america. our non-elected president will go to china and russia and criticise their failing democracy. he – there are no plans for a she – can be accompanied by a commission president, who is not elected either, and a foreign minister, also hand-picked by a super-qualified majority of 20 of the 27 prime ministers in the lisbon treaty union. democracy was born in europe, 2 500 years ago in greece. how can a commission president praise a treaty in which all the executive functions are hand-picked behind closed doors instead of being the result of the voters’ choice? too many countries have too often sent to brussels people they wanted to get rid of at home. instead of the lack of democracy in the lisbon treaty, we should opt for a europe of democracies and a democratic europe where the voters elect all the people who will serve the european citizens in negotiations with other countries. commissioner barroso said in cork that the lisbon treaty would bring the eu closer to its citizens. no, it will not! it will erase parliamentary democracy in 49 new areas and give us legislation and representation mainly by people we cannot elect or select. we, the elected, can be heard in foreign policy, but no one needs to listen. we, the elected, can send proposals, via amendments, to the non-elected in the commission. we, the elected, can vote for or against commissioner barroso, if he is reappointed by 20 of the 27 prime ministers. it is not the recipe for democracy we shall represent in a non-democratic world. mr president, thank you for allowing the expression of both critical and constructive views for 29 years in this assembly – the least bad institution in the eu. this may be my last debate with the commission and the council. after 29 years i will leave this place to my successor, hanne dahl, and i will not be a member during the coming asparagus season in may. bye, bye, asparagus, alsace wine, munster cheese and the monster travelling circus between strasbourg and brussels.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. the ninth cop on biodiversity could hardly have come at a better time. in the last few weeks, a great deal has been said and written about biofuels, and let us be clear: biofuels must not be produced at the expense of biodiversity. we are currently discussing the commission's proposal for a directive to promote the use of renewable energy sources, including biofuels. parliament must ensure that strict criteria are set for the environmental sustainability of the production of this fuel. we're not going to get anywhere in the fight against global warming if we reduce co2 emissions from cars and at the same time increase co2 emissions, because we're cutting down forests and plants for gasoline and releasing large amounts of co2 from the ground. the bonn meeting will be a great opportunity to highlight the importance of linking biofuel production to sustainability requirements in the eu and beyond. in 2002, the parties committed themselves to significantly reduce biodiversity loss by 2010 at global, regional and national levels. it is important that the parties continue to work towards that goal. the united nations convention on biological diversity is the global framework for the protection of biodiversity. unfortunately, many international agreements end up with the lowest common denominator. this is not acceptable when it comes to protecting nature. the eu must set high standards for itself and try to raise the standard in international agreements. the eu must also do better in protecting biodiversity. right now, we sometimes say one thing and do another. it could undermine our credibility. nevertheless, the commission and the member states must press for greater protection of biodiversity, especially in forest and agricultural areas, as these areas are particularly vulnerable now that more and more biofuels are being produced. how do we ensure that it is not an either/or when it comes to biodiversity and biofuels? we do this by making strict demands. then it may be possible to have both. cop 9 will help to ensure this.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, thank you to mrs ferreira for a good report on an important subject and for a very pleasant and excellent cooperation. if the eu is to live up to the many fine words about our climate and environmental goals, it is essential that we politicians take responsibility and make the difficult choices on behalf of our constituents. one of the effective means we have is to limit the consumption that is harmful to the environment by making the polluter pay. a great principle, one that everyone agrees on, but which has not been taken seriously until now, where it really cost the polluter. for example, the cost of transport has never been reflected in transport prices. one of the first things we have to do is to internalize the external costs, as it is popularly called. it would be a great step forward. we can easily go further in controlling polluting consumption by using even more restrictive financial means, and let me say that i simply do not understand why we cannot combine co2 taxes with an emissions trading system. i just don't understand this! using environmentally sound pricing is an effective way of using the market in environmental policy. the commission has already said that it will not replace the prohibitions and restrictions, but will go along with them. there is often concern that the use of these market-based methods may have a disadvantageous social impact. but the hypocrisy is obvious. in general, excise taxes strike fairly, since the richest are also the ones who consume the most and therefore end up paying the most. if you want to do something about the poor people's difficulties in paying for necessary consumption, there are many other ways that can be used without mixing it with green taxes. for example, the general tax, social and wage policies are much more appropriate if one is serious about caring for the less well-off. a method that will not work here is to construct a kind of basic consumption which must then be made cheaper or even free of charge. firstly, consumption will always be relatively high, but the worst thing about this model is that it does not encourage savings. so progressive taxation with green taxes is better after all. but the best thing to do is to keep these market-based instruments free of the other considerations if they are to be really effective in the fight to save the environment, the climate and nature. it is gratifying that concern about social inequalities is so great, but here it is a question of saving the living space of our descendants.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of biofuels. we will not compromise on sustainability, either socially or environmentally, and so insist that achieving the 10% target requires that it can be done sustainably. we are therefore prepared to revise the target if it is found that it cannot be achieved in a sustainable way. however, we do not believe that the discussion of the commission's annual policy strategy is the right place to make this decision, which should be taken in the negotiations on the eu's climate package, including the renewable energy directive.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. if we were to exclude all the countries which violate the rules of the monetary union, there would soon be no more members left. inflation is now measured at 3.6%, although the ceiling is 2%. monetary union is based on a design flaw. the inflation target has been taken from the model of germany, although the germans themselves have only met the requirement for six of the 30 years preceding the introduction of emu. this is crazy! how can one take such a number seriously and sanctify it without being swayed by other goals? the price of money is a means, not an end. the aim of economic policy must be to create full employment and to let everyone go home with a wage instead of a subsidy. monetary policy should help people, not make people miserable. in the us, growth has been 2.9% per year for 17 years from 1990 to 2007, while in the eu it has been only 2%. each citizen of the monetary union could have been €38 000 richer with a different policy if growth had been like in the united states before the last crisis. it is a very high price to pay for an ideological project to abolish national currencies. either there must be a single state with a single government and a single parliament responsible for all economic policy, or else the countries must be allowed to manage their own currencies and have a single currency to finance cross-border trade. that is the lesson of the failure of monetary union. without reforms, it is not difficult to predict the collapse of monetary union. it may be berlusconi's italy that first breaks the rails and has to reinvent the lyre. i am glad that we still have good danish kroner in denmark! all the statements by our politicians about the economic difficulties which they said would arise if we rejected the euro have been disgraced. the danes voted no on 2 june 1992. we also voted against on 28 september 2000. i think we should vote no for the third time too, when the politicians are offering to take our money away.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you for an excellent report on human rights, which is nevertheless marked by a very serious error. the world's greatest human rights problem, the discrimination of 260 million casteless dalits, is mentioned only briefly and only in connection with a list of what can give rise to discrimination. in february last year we adopted a comprehensive resolution on this matter and it is therefore alarming that the amendments of the green group were voted down in the afet committee. we proposed that the eu should work with the un to draw up guidelines for combating caste discrimination and raise the issue at summits with the countries concerned. have india and the british government been at stake again, as they were last year against the resolution, and have they been successful this time? the problem exists in a number of south asian countries, but when india is highlighted it is because they have a democracy which was emphasized as the most important in terms of human rights. they have democracy and they even have good laws against caste discrimination. but these laws are being violated relentlessly. india's democracy deserves to be respected by the law, and india should be an example to others. however, it is also shameful that the eu is turning its face away from the sufferings of the dalits. and the parliament! we could have said those things last year. what happened since we can't today? are the dalits doing better? is discrimination about to disappear? no, everyone here knows that's not the case. but why should the desperate plight of these people not be the subject of the active attention of the european union?
the rapporteur is requesting the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - mr president, i have to say something. it is a good report that we are considering. it is a step in the right direction, not a big step, but a step. action is also needed. not because all lobbying is harmful or all lobbyists are evil, but because it is completely unacceptable that lobbying has such a great influence without binding rules on maximum transparency in this area. lobbyists have a great deal of influence in the eu system. it only shows the amount of money spent on lobbying, and it shows the number of lobbyists who are engaged in gaining influence. but the report can be improved and the control of lobbyists strengthened if you adopt the amendments which follow the opinion of the libe committee. we need a mandatory common register which ensures full clarity and full transparency of the financial resources used for lobbying. we need a register and a code of ethics for all lobbyists, including law firms that lobby, that can be in place before the 2009 election. we need effective control measures and visible sanctions against those who break the rules. but it's also about looking inward. it takes two to tango. we therefore propose that lobbyists should be obliged to give the same information on expenditure for each member as is required of each member in its financial statement. a little more self-control doesn't hurt our reputation with the voting public.
on behalf of the ind/dem group. – mr president, parliament’s working group on reform has been in washington to study the us congress. we saw how all lobbyists have to register their function and their income from their different clients. it is mandatory in the us and canada and not voluntary, as the commission proposes. we also saw how each member of congress documented their budget, including every paid cup of coffee. if they can do it, why cannot we? why cannot we be fully transparent with our secretarial allowances in the ep, and then demand transparency in the other institutions? at the last meeting of the conference of presidents we became aware of organised lobbyism in our own house. in a very big and nice room on the fifth floor of the spinelli building, 28 multinational companies have their own office, the telephone numbers and e-mail addresses paid for by parliament. this may be a very good scheme linking companies to meps, but no one presented this proposal for us; it was established behind our backs. the views of the small and medium-sized companies are missing; the views of the consumers, trade unions, green organisations are missing. it may be a good idea to rent facilities to lobbyists, but then everyone should be invited and an elected board could supervise the activities. multinational companies are not those who most need our financial support. support for the scheme has been hand-picked and not elective from the political groups. this is the latest lobbyist scandal i hope you will redress. this is my last political speech in the european parliament. if i may have one wish, it will be for the adoption of the proposal from the convention signed by 23 governments and every single member from the national parliaments, every mep except one: make all documents and meetings open unless you decide a grounded derogation. this simple proposal will also solve most problems that bias lobbyism. we would then be able to see what they write to us or to the commission and we would take part in the decisions on derogations from transparency, so we would know what is hidden from us and why. we need the lobbyists to raise and improve the laws. we need their knowledge and advice and counter-arguments from other interests. we need balanced or pluralist information since we were elected to serve all citizens equally.
madam president, today is my last vote in parliament. tomorrow hanne dahl will represent the danish june movement. may i thank all of you for the good battles on constitutions and referendums and good cooperation in our joint fight for transparency. we have managed to open the secret telephone book in the commission. we have their agendas and their minutes on the net. we will soon see who advises the commission and who gets the subsidies. such victories were only possible because we cooperated across political lines. in the convention we had the signatures from 23 governments, every single mp and every mep except one, for a very simple proposal to turn the procedure on transparency. everything has to be open and transparent unless you make a derogation. also, i thank you for the support on several amendments on f-gases, on the climate, pesticides and drinking water, transport, nitrate in ecological sausages. my second wish is that laws will no longer be established by civil servants behind closed doors. please ensure that all european laws have to pass through this parliament in a public vote. thank you, colleagues, for 29 years in our joint assembly…... og tak til de danske vælgere, som gjorde det muligt!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the final version of the lobby report because it is, after all, a microscopic advance compared to the present situation. when it fails to go further, that in itself is proof of the influence that lobbyists have on the eu system.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i do not have exactly the same tie, but i do share mr nassauer's excellent work, and i would like to thank him very much for his work. the commission welcomes the outcome of the negotiations with parliament and the council and the fact that an agreement at first reading appears possible. once again, this is a success for the three institutions and it shows, mr president, that the codecision procedure is very effective, even when it comes to complex and difficult cases. i must say that the rapporteur for the legal affairs committee, mr nassauer, the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, the fictitious rapporteurs, all worked very hard, and constructively, with the council presidency and the commission, to find in the informal trilogue the compromise which is before you today. mr nassauer has explained it well, so i shall be brief. it is true that effective environmental protection requires the effective implementation of the entire community policy. criminal law is an indispensable tool in this respect. for the most serious crimes, only the sharp edge of the criminal law can have a real deterrent effect while recognizing, as you have very well said, the need to respect the principle of relativity. the commission would have liked to see the level of penalties approximated, but the court of justice's judgment of october 2007 does not make this possible on the legal basis of the treaty, and the court of justice's judgment must be respected. but even without this approximation of the level of penalties, the directive will make a significant contribution to more effective environmental protection, in particular through its deterrent effect. the member states will agree on the definitions of environmental offences, on the scope of the liability of undertakings for such offences, and on the need to provide for effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties. we therefore wish and hope that, given the way things have been going, all this can be achieved. the council of europe convention on the protection of the environment through criminal law was signed here in strasbourg ten years ago. and it's not in effect yet! it is therefore high time that an effective instrument for environmental protection was finally created in european criminal law. i hope that parliament will support this and that we will soon achieve this goal, and i thank the rapporteur again. in conclusion, the commission must make statements which are part of the compromise agreed with the legislators. so i will read it, mr president. declaration no 1: the european commission takes note of the following amendment adopted by the legal affairs committee of the european parliament. where a continuous activity is found, after a certain period of time, to have caused damage to the environment which may in turn give rise to criminal liability under this directive, the question whether the perpetrator of the damage acted intentionally or negligently should be determined by reference to the moment when the perpetrator became aware or should have become aware of the facts constituting the infringement, and not by reference to the moment when the perpetrator started his activity. it should be borne in mind in this respect that the prior grant of an authorisation, licence or concession should not constitute a defence in these circumstances. the european commission fully understands the concerns expressed in this amendment. these are matters for the member states to decide and we trust the member states to take these important matters into account. declaration no 2 by the european commission: the secondary legislation linked to annex 2 to this directive on health and safety to protect the population and the environment from the risks associated with activities involving ionising radiation has been adopted on the basis of the euratom treaty. thus, the obligations of member states to introduce criminal sanctions under the directive also cover unlawful conduct in breach of the provisions of legislation adopted on the basis of the euratom treaty and must be defined by reference to that legislation. i am sorry to have read these two texts, but i had to do it. that is what i am going to do, mr president, and i shall listen carefully to the debate.
having regard to the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to begin by saying that there is not only reason to praise mr nassauer's tie. there is also much to be said for his great work in finding a compromise in this difficult matter. this is a very important decision we are making. one of the major problems with the eu's environmental policy is that it is unfortunately not implemented uniformly in the individual countries and, in particular, is not enforced uniformly in the individual countries. so that's the problem we're trying to solve with this big step forward. we will ensure that in future the same offences are punished in all eu countries, no matter where such an offence may be committed. i also note and welcome the fact that we have some definitions of what such violations are. we have a clear list, which we stress should not be static but dynamic, and which shows when the basic principles of environmental policy are being violated. in the committee on the environment we have been very concerned to ensure that special habitats were protected and we are pleased that this has been included. we would have liked to see more specifics on the severity of the penalties. unfortunately, this was not possible under the current treaty, but we are very pleased with the result. it is a major step forward in environmental protection.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. the budget of parliament is not adopted until october, but with mr lewandowski's report we support in principle the draft budget for 2009, which the bureau adopted in april, and especially the dialogue on the details of the proposal, which is being carried out as a pilot project this year. i think that the first experiences show that such a dialogue is useful. this means that the budget is examined in detail by the political authorities and that the committee on budgets is seriously involved. that's good. the dialogue has focused a lot on the staffing needs in connection with the new tasks of the lisbon treaty for parliament and, in particular, the question of ensuring that the needs are met through possible redeployments before we start talking about increasing the staff. we have seen a large increase in staff with the enlargement of the eu and now we must have a consolidation period in which we look carefully at staffing needs. we have also agreed to have a long-term strategic plan for buildings and their maintenance before the end of this month. here too, future policy must be considered. the asbestos case shows that details are interesting. we are surprised that there is a charge for the disposal of asbestos in the sdm building, because when parliament bought the building we were told that there was no asbestos! the alde group therefore supports the socialists' proposal to put the money into reserve. last but not least, i would also like to stress the need for us to adopt a system for assistants, as discussed with parliament's secretary-general, harald rømer. i don't want it to fail this time. we need to get this thing settled.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president, i am delighted to be speaking in this house for the first time and in a committee area where i look forward to working. it is of course a good thing that the european parliament, with this report, is taking the initiative to ensure the rights of consumers. but i fear that this legislation will be little more than a patchwork of solutions. the european union is designed in such a way that the free movement of goods, capital and services always prevails over the interests of consumers and other sensitive areas. i think that is what is at stake in the debate today. i will give two very concrete examples of the ways in which we must safeguard the rights of consumers. it is absolutely essential that we guarantee the right of consumers to complain in their own country and in their own language, and it is absolutely essential that we allow controls to be carried out on food and other products which may pose a health risk when imported into individual countries. it should be allowed that individual countries may carry out controls and require a higher standard than that provided for by eu rules, in the interests of the environment and consumer health. the eu's consumer health strategy must be based on a precautionary principle rather than an ideological school of thought that serves only the purpose of allowing all goods to move completely freely across borders. and this is done by providing redress and legal accountability to the entities where citizens live and allowing the import of goods to be stopped if there are health reasons for doing so.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i would like to thank the president-in-office. the shipping industry has not yet been able to get rid of the old notion that the sea erases all traces. no, the sea remembers as well as the earth and the air, as well as the plants and animals and the human body, and the contribution of shipping to pollution remains enormous. imagine if we could get the major shipping nations to make the imo an active player in the fight to save the global environment instead of, as now, relentlessly using the imo to stop good initiatives. this report by mr piecyk is an excellent contribution to what we have done in the past in this parliament, but i hope that we can make it even stronger by supporting our amendments so that shipping is certainly included in the co2 trading system. we've got the air force. the only logical and justifiable thing is that shipping also contributes. therefore, ladies and gentlemen, support amendment no 1 to include the maritime emission trading scheme in the report.
i have to say, madam president, mr pieczyk's report points out that more concrete action is needed when we talk about maritime policy, and i very much agree. nowhere is such an active maritime policy more necessary than in the baltic sea. it is the most polluted sea area in the eu, with a lot of pollution from land and from ships, and dumped munitions from previous wars. we must have a cleaner environment in the baltic sea, and at the same time we want to see strong economic development in the area and a development where short sea shipping can take the burden off road traffic. so solutions must be found to limit ship emissions without at the same time preventing the development of short sea shipping. i believe that freedom of method to achieve the political targets for emissions combined with economic instruments is the way forward. i hope that in its baltic sea strategy the commission will step up its work for a better environment and, among other things, draw lessons from the pilot projects which parliament was given to include in this year's budget.
in writing. − shipping must be included in co2 trading the socialist delegation is working to include shipping in the co2 trading system. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the single market. today, therefore, the delegation voted in favour of the paragraph in the report on an integrated maritime policy for the european union which clearly states that we must include shipping in the co2 emissions trading scheme. we have thus voted against an amendment by the greens on the same subject. it is unclear whether the green amendment refers to a specific emissions trading model. if that's the case, we need an explanation of exactly what it contains. we therefore do not want to stick to a particular model at this stage, which could, in the worst case, make it difficult and delay agreement on the integration of co2 emissions from shipping.
member of the commission. - the mr president, first of all i would like to express my gratitude to the european parliament and in particular to the rapporteur, mrs britta thomsen, for supporting the commission's policy on women and science. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy, mr den dover, for his constructive attitude. we agree with mrs thomsen's explanatory statement that eliminating gender discrimination in science is likely to usher in a new era of excellence for european research and knowledge production and to boost innovation. the commission is well aware that there is a large imbalance between women and men in the number of researchers. the latest available statistics show that while women represent more than 50% of graduates in all university disciplines, only 15% of professors are women. in the field of science, engineering and technology, the corresponding figures are 34% female graduates and 9% female professors. the commission agrees that this is a great waste of talent and resources and that it also goes against the principle of equality. the european commission has been addressing the issue of low participation of women in european research since 1999 and in the fifth framework programme provided financial support for studies and actions in the field of women and science. in addition, since 2003, the commission has published the 'see figures' collection of statistics on women's participation in european research. the next edition will be published in 2009. in particular, in her report, mrs thomsen supports the 40% target for participation in the various committees of the framework programme set for both sexes. this non-binding objective has been in place since 2000 and has produced very good results. for example, the participation of women in the evaluation committees of research projects has increased from 10% in the fourth framework programme to 34% for the sixth framework programme. this shows that when the issue is properly raised, progress is made even without binding targets. the existence of binding targets may even prove to be long-term and counterproductive as a manifestation of discrimination against men, and most people - women and men - do not agree with such targets. the report highlights the negative impact of the work stoppage on the careers of women scientists. in the context of the european research area, the european commission shares these concerns and encourages policy measures to achieve a better work-life balance. networking among women scientists can also make a significant contribution to attracting more women to science and to positions of decision-making responsibility. this is why we have created the european platform of women scientists, which acts as a catalyst and creates standards in the field of scientific research. one of our main objectives is to increase the number of women in research positions with decisive responsibilities and is directly linked to the target agreed by member states in 2005 of having 25% of senior positions in public research organisations occupied by women. a report on this subject was recently published, entitled 'mapping the maze, getting more women to the top research'. the report concludes that transparent and fair evaluation alone is not sufficient to increase women's representation in decision-making mechanisms. we need a change in the prevailing perceptions. experts are making suggestions on how to make the current scientific mindset and culture more open and inclusive, but the challenge now is how to implement them. these actions are continued in the seventh framework programme and are now linked to the implementation of the european research area. the conference to be held in may 2009 under the auspices of the czech presidency of the european union will attempt to review the achievements of the last 10 years and identify areas where further efforts are needed. the european parliament's contribution in this context will be invaluable. in march 2006, the commission adopted the timetable for equality between women and men 2006-2010. this timetable is the commission's framework for action and expresses its commitment to promoting gender equality in all policies, both internally and externally. our priorities include: reconciling private and professional life; promoting equal participation of women and men in political and economic decision-making bodies, as well as in science and technology; eliminating gender stereotypes in education, training and culture, as well as in the labour market.
the commission is not mr president, thank you for your time. i am glad that we can put women and research high on the agenda today, because i believe that this is a very central issue for europe when we talk about fulfilling the lisbon strategy. europe must create more jobs, we must create better jobs, and we must become stronger in research and innovation. for all three of these tasks, women are an indispensable part of the balance sheet. we need more women in the workplace, we need more women in leadership and decision-making bodies. and if we are to create up to 700 000 research jobs in europe in the coming years, we must make better use of the pool of female talent. i have had two main objectives with this report. first of all, i wanted to take stock of the situation today. what is the situation with the proportion of women in research and why is it so bad? secondly, i would like to look ahead and come up with solutions and proposals on how we can improve this situation. the situation is not satisfactory today. women represent on average only 35% of publicly employed researchers and 18% of private researchers. and while women represent more than half of students in the eu and take 43% of doctoral degrees, they occupy on average only 15% of higher academic posts. we are therefore seeing a marked distortion in the representation of women in decision-making and management positions. nor do our own newly created institutions, such as the european research council, meet any equality criteria. only 5 out of 22 members of this research council are women. i have also pointed out that in most european countries there is still a marked under-representation of women on scientific committees. another example of the lack of representation of women in decision-making bodies. i should like to say a little more about the second and perhaps more interesting part of my report, namely the forward-looking solutions and proposals. i listened to some of the input that came out of the hearing that we held in the equality committee, and one of the clear points from that was that it is primarily about making policies in this area. if this problem is not addressed at both national and institutional level, nothing will happen. i have therefore included in my report a demand to the member states and the commission that a minimum target of 40% of women be included in all recruitment and assessment committees. i think that is absolutely essential. if we want to change the situation, we must ensure that more women are in the decision-making bodies so that we can help create a new culture from the top, just as i have called for more open recruitment procedures. experience shows that closed recruitment processes greatly benefit men who point to each other as the most qualified. i have also made it clear in my report that we must not give up on positive action if we are to hope to correct the situation relatively quickly. our own figures show that there is no natural positive development. i have therefore recommended that specific funds be allocated to promote female researchers and that the importance of networks and role models be emphasised as simple measures which have shown positive results in the member states. even simple measures such as a phrase encouraging women in particular to apply have shown good results. so my work on this report shows that there are many barriers. it is of course important that there are good opportunities to combine research with family life, with the possibility of childbearing, even if you are a doctoral student, but it is also about culture. of course, cultural barriers are more difficult to formulate, but in reality, as with the more concrete barriers, it is a matter of highlighting some of the biases. i shall not say more here, but i look forward to hearing your comments on the report.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers in tonight’s debate for their very positive contributions. the commission policy on gender in research has two main strands – women’s participation in research and the gender dimension of research. in the first we try to tackle the presence of women at all levels of the career ladder and the gender differences in various principal areas. in the second strand, we focus on research design and the account taken of gender diversity in research. the commission is as committed as ever to the promotion of gender equality in research. as regards the quotas, we believe that targets such as the 40% target for each gender for various expert groups, and evaluation panels in the seventh framework programme, are objective and balanced ones and are bringing good results. we will continue to strive to reach these objectives and we hope to increase the number of women in science this way. our endeavours are already bringing results and i would like to thank you for your support in our efforts on improving the situation for better inclusion of women in science and research. thank you very much for your comments and good cooperation.
the commission is not i am not sure that this is the case. thank you for speaking. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. thank you for your comments. i am glad to hear that you share my concerns and visions for the future of european research. i think i have been misunderstood a little bit about the quotas we have been talking about. i am not talking about quotas for researchers, but it is quite clear that one of the main barriers to the recruitment and exploitation of the female talent pool is the composition of the recruitment committees. they are not gender neutral, and that is why i think we have to do something about it. we cannot simply ignore this problem and hope that tomorrow will be brighter and that it will happen by itself. we need to demand political action now. the commission has been the progressive player in this matter, since it set up a women and research department in the research directorate several years ago. it is the member states that are lagging behind. it is their commitment that becomes essential in ensuring change in university and research institutions. thank you for your cooperation, colleagues, the secretariat and the commission! i have enjoyed working with researchers and in particular the european platform of women scientists - a special thank you to them.
i have to say, madam president, turkey is too big and too different to be accepted into the eu. if turkey wanted to live up to kemal atatürk's famous words: 'there is only one civilization', we would not have stood here year after year and found that turkey is not at all willing to comply with the eu's demands to adopt european values and abandon the ottoman ones. turkey clearly expects to tire the eu of simply continuing to negotiate without complying with our core demands for change. for 34 years, turkey has occupied over one third of the territory of an eu country. cyprus as a whole is suffering under turkish occupation, and the occupied territory is suffering the most. it is obvious that the vast majority of european citizens do not want turkey to become a member of the european union. and it also seems that a growing number of turkish citizens do not want that. it's time to stop this theatrical spectacle. turkey can get an expanded trade agreement. europe does not belong in the future that turkey is betting on.
in writing. − given the trans-boundary nature of environmental crime, we believe that an established set of minimum standards and sanctions concerning environmental crime at international level would be a useful instrument in maintaining a comprehensive and effective environmental protection strategy. however, we do not believe that the eu has or should have the competence to establish criminal measures in first-pillar matters. therefore i voted against the report today
for the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i thank the rapporteur, mr lehideux, for his cooperation and work on the report on the european training institute in turin. i have been the shadow rapporteur for the social democrats and we have had some tough negotiations with the council, but i think we have come to a good compromise proposal. although the work of this institute is directed at countries which are not members of the eu and have therefore not adopted the lisbon objectives, it is nevertheless useful to speak of the objectives in this context. the lisbon objectives are really just a means of achieving progress and growth, and you do not have to be a member of the eu to want to do so. education is a key element for growth and development within the eu. investing in better education can help the eu to achieve the lisbon goals and make europe a better place to live. another important tool for achieving the lisbon objectives is flexicurity in the labour market, and training and flexicurity are closely linked. education creates a better and more competitive workforce and can thus increase growth. it is important that we think long-term when we consider the future of the eu. the european training foundation is therefore a very important agency. the eu should not be a closed club. it is important that we help potential new member states as much as we can. we must of course require new member states to meet certain requirements and standards, but we must also help them to do so. i believe that the new structure which we are now introducing for the turin institute is a great advantage for the future challenges and i believe that the institute can help potential new member states to become closer to the eu. i am also very pleased that this new structure of the foundation strengthens the link between the european parliament and the foundation. we'll be able to nominate three experts to the board. this shows that the council is beginning to accept that the european parliament should have more influence in this area as well.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i thank both commissioner michel and mr van hecke for a good report. it is good that there is agreement on the content and that eu aid should be both increased and improved. help is meant to be help. we must not dilute it by using it for other purposes such as debt relief, where the money is simply moved from one post to another in the donor countries. the money should go to those who need it, and we should be able to see that it goes to that purpose. it is the only way to get the europeans to increase aid growth - to see that it is effective, as jeffrey sachs said so clearly recently. it is therefore important that amendment no 1 be adopted. the aid must also be increased by 2015, as we have promised many times. it is petty and embarrassing that eu aid fell from 2006 to 2007. without more money, aid cannot be sufficiently effective. we're not gonna reach our goals without living up to our many promises. and then it would be great if the european parliament took up the eu's agricultural policy. there is a series of analyses, for example from the world bank, the imf and the un, which show that the common agricultural policy is undermining the growth potential of the developing countries, and i am not talking here about export subsidies, which are grotesque, but which are only a small part of the damage caused by this policy. as it is, we give with one hand and take with the other - often much more than we have given. so we should not wait for the americans to withdraw their agricultural subsidies. the agricultural subsidies of the americans are no worse than ours, and the eu should lead by example.
i have to say, madam president, i have a direct question to the commission about the specific initiatives taken in connection with the european championships in austria and switzerland in relation to trafficking in women. we have heard it here tonight and we have also experienced the trafficking of women in connection with these kinds of major sporting events. i would like to ask the following: firstly, has the government of the two countries been approached and asked to support parliament's 'red card' action? secondly, have they been made aware of the need to increase police action in connection with the championships and, finally, have the two governments been called upon to take action in relation to the victims?
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank all the speakers in this debate for their positive contributions. on the basis of the agreed text, member states will now have to take a number of measures in order to improve their waste management. the directive lays down clear definitions and waste management principles, which i trust will resolve the existing interpretation problems, reduce the number of court cases and set a sound legal basis for the functioning of the waste treatment sector. a number of key elements have been included in the overall compromise package that is now proposed. the most important are these. firstly, the environmental objective of the directive is now clear and ambitious. the level of environmental protection has not only been maintained but also strengthened in several cases, such as hazardous waste. the co-legislators have agreed on a number of cornerstone definitions, including definitions of waste, prevention, recycling and recovery. these definitions are clear and understandable. in addition, the directive successfully incorporates the provisions of two other directives to make the legislation more accessible while maintaining the high standards of environmental protection. a distinction between recovery and disposal has been made clear, with a possibility for the commission to further delineate this distinction should there be such a need. a clear five-step ‘waste hierarchy’ has been set up which promotes waste prevention and allows for disposal of residual waste only as the last resort. at the same time, it allows for the necessary scope of flexibility justified by sound life-cycle considerations. i would like to recall the importance given by parliament during the negotiations to strengthening the upper levels of the ‘waste hierarchy’ by introducing the recycling targets. if these targets are not met in 2020, the commission can take member states to court for non-compliance with the requirements of the directive. in addition, the current formulation introduces a more regular and thorough process of monitoring the measures taken by member states to attain the required targets in advance of the 2020 deadline, instead of a simple check of the actual compliance levels in 2020 when waste management systems are already in place. such an early enforcement process can help to avoid unpleasant surprises in 2020. last but not least, the directive introduces a completely new dimension on waste prevention which the commission is keen to pursue immediately after its adoption and transposition. the member states will now have to establish their national waste management plans and networks which need to reflect the principles and new obligations set out in the revised directive. article 14 of the waste framework directive does not prescribe whether private or public authorities should participate in the setting-up and in the operation of such networks, nor does it affect in any possible way the ownership – public or private – of waste-management operations and infrastructures. the division of responsibilities between the public and private sectors is an internal matter that can only be decided by the member states. if an adequate network of disposal and recovery operations is already in place – be it private, public or mixed – there is no need for additional measures to set it up. regarding the concerns relating to the lack of a recycling target for manufacturing and industrial waste, my services will look into the possibility of setting such a target as the first priority within the context of the 2014 review, which is foreseen in article 8a (point 4). regarding the issue of feeding animals with animal by-products such as catering waste, this is regulated by the animal by-products regulation, which is currently under review. it should be addressed in that regulation as the waste framework directive is not the right place to regulate the use of catering waste. concerning the question of whether by-product requirements and end-of-waste criteria must be fulfilled in the european union before shipment to third countries, the commission confirms that this is the case. regarding the question of whether manure should be excluded from the scope of the waste framework directive, manure is not considered waste when it is used as a fertiliser. however, it is considered waste when it is destined for further treatment or disposal operations, for instance incineration, production of biogas or compost and landfilling. excluding manure from the scope of waste legislation would create a serious gap in environmental protection, since there would be no legal means to control issues such as emissions to air and water, landfilling requirements, noise, odour etc. finally, the european union should promote the production of biogas and the composting of waste. however, biogas and composting plants are not environmentally neutral. they also emit to the air and water and can be a source of nuisance, for instance in terms of odours or noise. excluding manure destined for biogas production or composting plants from the scope of the waste framework directive would result in excluding such plants from the scope of the ippc directive. to conclude, i should like once again to congratulate and thank mrs jackson for her excellent work. the commission is very pleased with the outcome of the negotiations and can accept the proposed compromise amendments in full.
member of the commission. - the mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today one of the most crucial challenges of environmental policy, the protection of our water resources for the benefit of our own and future generations. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs laperrouze, and the committee on the environment for the excellent work they have done and for their cooperation in this directive. as you will recall, the water framework directive, the main legislative act of the european union's water protection policy, provided that further legislation was needed on two issues: on european union quality standards for groundwater and on european union quality standards for priority substances in surface water. the groundwater directive was adopted at the end of 2006 under the conciliation procedure. the european parliament is today voting on a second reading of the proposal for a directive on environmental quality standards for priority substances in surface water. the directive sets harmonised quality standards for the 33 substances on the list so that the basic concept of good water status is expressed in defined numerical values based on the best available scientific data and knowledge. in this way the directive will contribute to achieving a high level of protection of the aquatic environment and human health, which is also the objective of the water framework directive. the commission is determined to monitor closely the application of this directive and the water framework directive. it shall also monitor and evaluate the available information on the presence and effects of non-priority substances or priority hazardous substances. it intends to submit proposals for further measures as appropriate in the circumstances. throughout the negotiation process, parliament's interventions on a number of important issues helped to ensure the ambitious level of objectives originally proposed by the commission. this applies in particular to the following key points: the future revision of the list of priority substances which is now clearly linked to environmental quality standards and will be proposed within two years of the entry into force of this directive; the list of candidates to be considered in the review of the existing list and the criteria for the inventory of emissions, discharges and leakages and for mixed zones. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. as you know, the water framework directive provides for an approach combining emission controls and environmental quality standards. emission controls are largely covered by existing community legislation. in addition to the emission controls under the directives on urban waste water treatment, on nitrous pollution of agricultural origin and on integrated pollution prevention and control, which were already in force when the water framework directive was adopted in 2000, more than 30 community legislative acts have been adopted or proposed by the commission. i would like to mention a few of them: the reach regulation, the regulation on persistent organic pollutants, the directive on mining residues, restrictions on the use of substances under the pesticides directive and the directive on the restriction of the movement and use of dangerous substances and preparations. we therefore believe that member states have at their disposal adequate legislative tools to achieve the objectives of the water framework directive. in addition, the commission will assess the need for further social control measures and, if appropriate, will make proposals when revising the list of priority substances. the commission will also assess the need to classify priority substances in the priority hazardous substances, taking into account new information that will be available and the latest developments under the reach regulation. in conclusion, i would like to express once again my satisfaction with the work done jointly, and in particular by the rapporteur, and the commission's full support for the compromise package agreed at second reading on this very important piece of legislation.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would also like to thank anne laperrouze for her kind and welcoming cooperation. we have managed to retain some of the good results of the first treatment, but today is a sad day. most of it has been lost to the lobbying of the agrochemical industry and the most ineffective part of the public regulatory authorities. it is the sad remains that we are discussing today. our overall aim is to gradually improve the quality of europe's rivers and lakes. the excessive use of pesticides by agriculture and the toxic emissions by industry must be curbed by strict requirements on the quantities of priority or priority hazardous substances that may be present in water. the weakness of the present proposal is that there is really no political will to look at more drugs. it is already clear that the current system of examining substances on the list and adding new ones is at best too slow. if the precautionary principle were to apply, a number of other substances would have to be investigated, but that possibility is running out of control. in addition, it is unclear what is required before a substance can be declared so dangerous that it must be banned altogether. we are faced with a number of substances which all the evidence suggests are very dangerous, but the commission is still hesitating to ban them definitively. it's not working! if a substance is dangerous, it is dangerous! we must be vigilant to see whether the commission will initiate investigations into these substances or whether it will simply continue to postpone its position on the grounds that it does not have enough data. well, then get the data! there are some improvements. for example, countries are now required to map the sources of pollution and to include concentrations in sediments and biota. the commission will not be allowed to wait until 2025 to assess the situation, as it had wished. it is to be completed in 2018. yes, we are in favour. it's a little cheerful after a downturn like the one we've had since the first treatment.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president, slovakia wants to join the euro, and i cannot even contemplate that, but i would nevertheless take this opportunity to urge restraint. the euro is, so to speak, about to pass its first test. for various reasons, we are seeing price increases, not just in europe, but throughout the world. inflation is rising and an inflation expectation has been created. this has not been tried before with the euro as currency. the european central bank operates with a maximum inflation rate of 2%. the only way to enforce this limit is to raise interest rates to lower activity levels and thus try to beat down inflation. if it does, we can expect an economic recession. the stability pact focuses unilaterally on the deficit of public finances not exceeding 3% of gdp. this limitation of economic stimulus raises the fear of further economic recession in europe. if i were slovakia, i would at least wait to abolish my own currency in favour of the euro until we have seen the euro pass its first test in economic crisis.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, i do not think that mr ferrari has been the worst in this respect. i've actually had a very nice working relationship with someone who didn't seem like he was in the pocket of the auto industry. we would, of course, have preferred to see a report that went even further in its efforts to protect pedestrians and other vulnerable road users from cars, and the best thing would have been to get many more motorists onto public transport or onto bicycles. but with that goal now so far in the future, we are glad to have done something about the equipment of the cars. the positive aspect here, as many have said, is that the heavier vehicles are now covered by legislation, so that the trend towards ever larger cars is countered by stricter requirements for the equipment of the cars. i would also commend the rapporteur for pushing for the rapid introduction of bas, or break assistant system, as standard in cars, so that the driver has a chance of being able to stop in time. it is also good that there are requirements for the design of the front of the cars so that a collision with a living vulnerable human being causes as little damage as possible to the unfortunate person. but here we're going to go down to 25 miles an hour, if that makes any sense. the requirements should have been even stricter and the time limit should have been even stricter. there are already materials on the market which offer significantly better protection for pedestrians without compromising the safety of drivers or passengers. the rapporteur is not to blame for the delay. there is every indication that we have again seen an example of lobbying from the german car industry in particular, which is currently at the back end of european industries. it is discouraging if that is the explanation for the fact that we are again faced with a proposal which does not meet our wishes, and here i am talking about the wish for fewer deaths and injuries in traffic. why do we accept, as we have just heard again, the words of the car industry that technology is not yet good enough? that's it! and i very much hope that at least now the members will vote in favour of amendment no 25.
president of the commission. - mr president, i would like to take this opportunity to note the remarkable consensus in this house on the next steps to be taken. finally, we believe that, with a few exceptions which only add colour to the debate, it would be useful if all the member states could complete their ratification process. this is the position expressed by the irish government and by the members, in this case mr crowley, who is irish, and who says that all states have the same right to express their position. so if we can conclude this process, then the conditions will be right for constructive discussions with our irish friends in a spirit of solidarity, because there is no union without solidarity. and here i think that the consensus is being consolidated, and i hope that it will be consolidated by the debate in the european council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. in any case, this is the position which the commission will present to the european council. at the same time, as many of you have pointed out, mr watson and others, it is important not to fall into paralysis by looking only at the institutional question. the best way to consolidate the democratic legitimacy of the european union is to deliver results and show that we are working for our citizens; in fact, the world cannot wait for europe to make its institutional decisions. there are urgent issues such as climate change, energy security, migration, which require responses from the union, even with the current institutional framework. another point, my dear friend schulz, is to avoid finding easy scapegoats. it is true that i did not find these statements by my colleague from the commission, mr mccreevy, very satisfactory. but i could also mention some statements by national politicians who have not been good at this process, or even by members of parliament who do not always say the things we would like to hear. let's not get carried away! in fact, in the constituency where mr mccreevy campaigned, the 'yes' side won and i believe that attacking the irish commissioner now is not the best way to have a good dialogue with our irish friends. let us concentrate on the positive aspects without trying to find easy scapegoats, that would not be fair. if we act in a spirit of cooperation with our institutions, if we focus on the results that citizens expect from us, if we find the best atmosphere for this dialogue, i believe that it is possible to solve this problem. it's a serious problem, but it's a problem that can be solved. it cannot be solved by complaints, nor can it be solved by pessimism, by cryophilia or by declinism. it is by trying to strengthen democratic legitimacy through results and by recognising that we all have to act, at the level of the european institutions, at the level of national governments, and that it is a shared responsibility, to make our ideal, the european ideal, come to life. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, no, no, no! what the honourable member has just said is not democracy. democracy is to say, ‘we respect the irish, as we respect every other member state’s decisions’. therefore, i endorse the remarks made by the president of the commission: we have a consensus here in parliament on the process, respecting the irish but respecting also all the other member states. let us continue the process; this is what we have to continue today. second point: no more pauses, please! no more ‘reflection’ thing. no more wishy-washiness. let us focus on the real problems: that is what we have to do. of course, president barroso has to defend his commissioners, including mr mccreevy. when we criticise mr mccreevy, this is not a personal issue. when the chairman of my group mentions mr mccreevy, it is because of his policy – and his policy is also mr barroso’s policy. mr barroso said many wise things today, but when he was talking about competition powers i did not hear anything about speculation on the financial markets against food prices. i would have liked to have heard that, and i would have liked to have heard that from mr mccreevy. i did not hear mr barroso say, when he was talking about the economic thing, that we are lacking jobs in europe. i would have liked to have heard him say that, due to the financial crisis, we are losing jobs. i would like to see the commission coming up with a new economic revitalisation plan – not a theoretical one, but a coordinated investment action. thirdly, mr mccreevy is right now trying to say that the whole reason why we have a financial crisis is the agencies and bureaux – standard & poors, ftse and others – and that we are going to regulate them. but that is, in a sense, to shoot the messenger. i really feel that the commission president should say to us today: yes, i agree, we have a financial crisis and, yes, i agree, we need to have universal regulation, better than the one we have, so that our answer can be new jobs and a better climate, not more money and not more focus on how to create money from nothing, instead of production and jobs. give us that impression today and you have the real message for ordinary people.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a prominent and well-known danish businessman wrote yesterday in the berlingske tidende: 'europeans are fully in favour of international political cooperation and global responsibility. when european citizens commit themselves to democracy at national level, they are of course also committing themselves to democracy in a european context, and that is precisely what they are not getting.' we have been assured, one after the other, that the treaty of lisbon could not enter into force if only one country rejected it, and as mr pöttering wrote in his statement of 13 june: 'the rejection of the treaty texts by one country of the european union cannot mean that the ratification processes already completed in the eighteen countries of the european union have been abandoned.' in the days of autocracy, kings and emperors met and agreed on how to share power among themselves. those days are back. prince pöttering, emperor barosso and the rulers of their respective states have decided that the citizens of europe are nothing. 26 countries were not allowed to vote, and the one country that did vote, ireland, has been told that it means nothing. the union has no popular mandate.
mr president, i would like to thank you. on friday the irish voted against the lisbon treaty. the treaty of lisbon, which is a poor copy of the constitution, which france and the netherlands also voted against. the commission president is nevertheless heard saying that ratification must continue. it is said that the scepticism of one country cannot stop progress. the attempt is made to present it as if the irish people have a problem. but they haven't. the gap is not between the irish people and europe. the gap is between the peoples of europe and the leaders of europe. the gap is not between any country and the rest of europe. france, the netherlands and ireland do not want to slow down the process, they want it to be different. get a load of this! and to mr. schulz. shame on you, mr. schulz! you compare so-called anti-europeans to fascists, but it is your rhetoric that is fascist. they said that the anti-europeans had run up and down the stairs and that they had voted doorbells. it doesn't take much historical awareness to remember how the negroes were talked about in the last century. shame on you! shame on you! what a shame!
member of the commission. − today we have a unique opportunity, at this early stage of the budgetary debate, to get a firsthand look at the european parliament's main priorities for the coming year and to find out what concerns meps have about the commission's draft. i would like to thank in particular the initiator of this debate, mr haug, who started this debate so early. i would like to assure you that both the european commission and i attach particular importance to sound financial management and strict financial discipline. we welcome and applaud the continuing attention you, honourable members, are giving to these issues. therefore, understanding and sharing your concern, i would first of all like to point out that the commission has prepared the preliminary budget for 2009 within the limits of the expenditure foreseen for the financial programming period 2007 to 2013, and with due regard to the forecasts for economic and social developments, and with a reasonable and sufficient margin to meet unforeseen challenges. in preparing the draft budget for the following year, we sought to give concrete financial expression to the political priorities and to ensure that the objectives had a sound budgetary basis. the largest increase in funding is therefore foreseen for programmes promoting economic development and competitiveness, as well as for programmes on freedom, security and justice financed from budgetary categories corresponding to these objectives. in order to ensure that the year 2009 and the budget better reflect the european union's foreign policy objectives and the community's full participation in the global arena, the commission intends to present a draft amendment with revised estimates for the financing of kosovo and palestine in the near future. before you start the preliminary examination of the draft budget for 2009 in parliament, the commission will also put forward proposals for additional funding for short-term measures in developing countries which have been particularly hard hit by the increase in food prices, we will propose the creation of a so-called food fund for developing countries. i also noted your concern about administrative costs, especially those not falling under category 5. i can assure you that the preliminary draft budget for 2009 provides sufficient detail on this aspect and we are prepared to provide all the information requested in your resolution. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr haug, for putting forward at such an early stage a list of new pilot projects and preparatory actions, which is a first, at least in my practice. this will help us to evaluate their financing possibilities in a timely manner and ensure the effective implementation of projects approved by parliament. we will have a trialogue meeting next week, or even this week, and we will have the first conciliation meeting next week in preparation for the first council debate. and i very much hope and i am confident that the atmosphere of constructive cooperation that we have cultivated for several years will continue this year, and we will successfully reach an agreement later this year.
the alde group is not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i should like to begin by thanking mr jutta haug for his cooperation on this report, which my group can support. we can also support some of the amendments tabled by the ppe-de group and the greens. the eu budget is an important political instrument, even if it is a modest budget in relation to the economy as a whole. and of course the 2009 budget must reflect the political priorities, and is that what we are seeing? eu heads of state have adopted an ambitious energy policy agenda - are we reflecting these ambitions in the budget? - i know. there are no clear new priorities in this direction. for example, the heads of state have decided to set up 12 pilot projects for coal-fired power stations that store co2, but no one knows where the funding will come from. should not these pilot projects be reflected in the eu budget? yeah, i was just asking! the heads of state or government want an ambitious common refugee policy with the establishment of an emigration pact this autumn. but what about the ambitions of the frontex border agency, which is to help particularly vulnerable countries cope with the influx of poverty refugees? from what we have heard, there is not enough money to meet the ambitions of this work. foreign policy is chronically underfunded. we see this again this year, when there is again nothing like a realistic budget for aid to palestine and kosovo. the socialist group has proposed that we transfer unused funds from the agricultural budget to areas where the budgetary framework is too tight. this is the solution we had for the financing of the galileo satellite navigation system. the commission has, on the other hand, proposed that we should finance development aid from the agricultural budget. i don't think that's a good idea at all. this is a mess! my group cannot accept, as a matter of principle, that we are now discussing the revision of the financial perspective. in the first instance, it will be for the eu's finance ministers to demonstrate how they can make the political ambitions of the heads of state and government fit in with the ceilings in the budgetary framework.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president, the debate we are having is surreal! yes, it is as absurd as a process described by kafka! and i have to briefly review the process so that you can understand why i am allowing myself this comparison, because i know it is quite crude. at a meeting of the committee on constitutional affairs on 27 may, a draft report was discussed on making it more difficult to form political groups. the rapporteur, mr corbett, wanted to increase the number of members from 20 to 30 and at the same time demand that the group should represent a quarter of the countries, as opposed to the current fifth. this motion for a resolution was rejected, and that would have been to remove it from the agenda in any other context. but instead the committee chairman, jo leinen, allowed the vote to continue on amendments to the original text of the report. this is despite the fact that there was no report to amend! this manoeuvre has succeeded in keeping alive a report that was dead! it is true that all the rules and usual procedures were broken, but corbett, flanked by the chairman of the committee, seems to think highly of this. and you have to ask why? in 2004, the threshold was raised, with the european parliament now comprising 25 countries instead of 15. we have since been enlarged by two countries, but that does not justify such a drastic change in the rules. it is pointed out that in many cases the threshold is higher in the national parliaments, but it is forgotten that there is a greater limitation in the european parliament, since there is also a geographical limitation. as far as i know, there is no such institution in any national parliament. so why this dramatic change in the rules of group formation? it is a very serious matter, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the council of ministers is able to take the necessary decisions. yes, if i were paranoid, i would say that it looked like an unholy alliance with a sinister motive, and the sinister motive is to make it very difficult to create groups belonging to the opposition. groups like the one i belong to. parliament has no right to pass judgment on political positions. that right belongs to the voters alone. members elected by lawful democratic elections are legitimate participants in the political process. they have every right to play on this field and it is not the job of social democrats or conservatives to make it difficult for them to exercise their mandate. i would recommend to all members that they vote against amendments to reports which do not exist. i would recommend that today and in the future. it is simply too far out of line if we ever want to be taken seriously as a legislative body.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to challenge a very basic premise, namely that we will have more political coherence if we divide ourselves into fewer groups. i can join the social democratic group. it does not give the socialist group any more political coherence. i can also join the conservative group. i can guarantee that it will not bring more consistency to the conservative group. no, not at all! so this proposal is not about political consistency. the point is that there will be a lot of freelancers who will not belong to any of the groups that have enough mandates to be established. and that in turn will mean that millions of europeans will experience that they are not represented by a political group in the european parliament. i don't think that's a good development. i think that this is not a democratic development. and finally, i would like to ask mr corbett, because we are talking about political consistency: is the proposal that mr corbett is putting forward here supported by a unanimous socialist group, or is there in fact deep disagreement within the socialist group on the proposal?
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president, any legislative body must be subject to control at all times and must be prepared, as we are, to exercise self-control. but this self-control, i fear, goes too far in the present report. i would go so far as to call it self-censorship. if it is adopted in its original form, parliament itself proposes that the right to put questions to the council and the commission be limited to each member asking only relevant questions, which of course makes sense as such. but it also says that it is up to the president to decide whether the question can be put. the president of parliament must therefore decide which questions are appropriate to put to the other eu institutions. we are therefore introducing increased self-censorship and even allowing the president of parliament to exercise censorship. i would remind you that we are the only directly elected body and that we have a special obligation. our task is to exercise parliamentary control, and therefore we cannot under any circumstances impose on ourselves self-censorship which can be abused! we all have a moral obligation not to waste the time of any institution on irrelevant questions, but we cannot accept the setting of so-called objective criteria of relevance. objective criteria do not exist in politics, and if they are set up, there is a risk that they will be abused.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the baltic sea is a very vulnerable sea and nord stream will affect the seabed and the biodiversity of the area. i therefore believe that all coastal states must jointly monitor environmental safety and that nord stream must compensate for any damage that may occur in connection with the closure of the pipeline. but the environmental problem is not the only one at nord stream. it is also the lack of trust between russia and the baltic states. we have seen russia use energy policy as a political tool on several occasions. and many of the baltic sea countries clearly see nord stream as a russian attempt to bypass them and go directly into the western european market. and nord stream can be seen as an example of a bilateral agreement between russia and a member state of the union. nord stream is therefore of particular and fundamental interest to europe, because when it comes to energy supply, it is important that the eu stands together in a common energy policy and that individual member states do not make bilateral agreements. and then it is important that russia shows goodwill and is part of all international agreements.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i would like to briefly explain the reasons for my oral amendment, which is in fact aimed at both corbett and jo lienen, who have mentioned the size of parliament as the reason for this amendment. and this oral amendment, which i am tabled on behalf of my group, is a natural extension of the amendments adopted in 2002 with corbett as rapporteur. i follow his argument exactly, and it took account of the enlargement of the european union from 15 to 25 countries. if the same ratios are used, now that the eu is made up of 27 countries, the figure would be 3%, representing one fifth of the nations, and thus giving a lower limit of 22 members. i hope that my proposal is seen for what it is, namely a compromise text. yesterday, during the debate, we were asked to seek a compromise, but a compromise text that fully follows the logic of corbett's arguments from 2002. and the oral amendment will read as follows. i am reading it in english because i have it only in the english version which has been circulated among the members today. a political group shall comprise members elected in at least one fifth of the member states. the minimum number of members required to form a political group shall be 3% of the total number of members. i would urge that we vote in favour because it would be a compromise in which we, as opponents of the original proposal, would actually follow corbett's logic.
mr president, may i just address the president-in-office and say that i am rasmussen i, not to be confused with rasmussen ii, but i want to assure you of one thing. you talk wisely about the new lisbon treaty, and i say to mr farage that he has forgotten the danish case. we voted ‘no’ to maastricht but we voted ‘yes’ to the edinburgh agreement and we would never ever dream of saying that because we voted ‘no’ in the first instance we will block the rest of europe. we would never say that. mr farage is wrong: this is not democracy. i want just to assure you, mr president-in-office, and assure france, that we found the solution for denmark and we will find a solution for the irish people. my second point is this: i have an appeal to you on behalf of the european social democratic party and all my colleagues and leaders and political family. my appeal is that you should add one more priority to your four priorities. my priority – and i hope it will be yours, i know it is yours – is about jobs, is about growth, is about sustainability. you said – and i was so happy to hear you say it – ‘we need better regulation of the financial markets’. i could not agree with you more. we are just working right now in this very parliament on getting a report through and i hope – and i appeal to my colleagues in the ppe-de and alde groups – that we can deliver to the french presidency a wise report on better regulation. i am talking about transparency. i am talking about better regulation on fairness, bonuses and stock options and all the rest you talked so wisely about. i am talking about accountability, responsibility, to ensure that the financial market is a long-term patient financing power to our long-term investment needs for more jobs and better jobs. connected to that is another idea for you. you are right in saying that we are losing growth right now, we are losing jobs right now, especially in the uk, in spain but also in france. why do we not take a new initiative for growth, a new coordinated investment action? imagine the following scenario: if we invest just one per cent more together in education, in structure, in all relevant issues, within the next four years we will get at least 10 million jobs in addition to what we now have. imagine what we could do together. you said that sport is more than the market economy. i would add: i agree, and that goes for the whole of europe. europe is more than the market economy. it is about jobs and people. let us care about them. i wish the french presidency every success.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to use my speaking time today to focus on the health policy agenda. the present proposal for a directive on patients' rights in crossborder healthcare is a substantial improvement on the original proposal. but unfortunately the basic premise of everything that is part of the internal market has not changed. the free market always trumps the human factor. we all want, of course, to be able to get the best possible treatment as soon as possible if we become seriously ill. unfortunately, the directive does not provide for this in any way. it ensures that the best-off patients from the best-off countries in the eu receive the best possible treatment. this poses a high risk of dividing patients into an a and a b group. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the directive guarantees the right to treatment in another country at the price that treatment would have cost in one's home country. this also implies a risk for countries a and b. of course, the price of the same treatment will vary from country to country. the present directive allows market conditions to prevail, but the risks are high. when the market rules, the losers are always those who cannot cope with the conditions of the market.
in writing. - although jean lambert's report on the evaluation of the dublin system (a6-0287/2008) contains views and proposals which i do not share, i chose to vote in favour of the report in the final vote. i did so primarily to express my support for the report's clear criticism of the way in which existing eu rules undermine the rights of asylum seekers, for example by encouraging the transfer of asylum seekers to member states which cannot guarantee a full and fair processing of their applications.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the telecommunications package in its present form contains many good measures. the general consumer will have easier access and it will be cheaper as transparency increases within the market. but the package also contains some very unfortunate elements, which the previous speaker mentioned. the question of defining what is legal and illegal content on websites opens the door to the monitoring, recording and control of all our communications and commerce over the internet. and to a degree, there are countries that we do not usually consider democratic, worthy! we cannot allow registration, just as we cannot allow service providers to arbitrarily close down traffic that some consider harmful. it is the equivalent of employing an army of controllers in the post offices of europe to sift out letters that were considered harmful to the recipient. who exactly is going to be allowed to read my love letters? we must ensure that the legislation of the future is not an electronic straitjacket, but rather a framework within which the culture, the debate and the interactive life of the future can unfold.
in writing. −the june movement considers hydrogen fuel cells as energy carriers made from renewable energy - solar, wind and wave power - as a transport system because it is a clean combustion, i.e. no particulate pollution, while the fuel can be made from renewable energy. overall, however, hydrogen vehicles have a very low energy efficiency of 20% from source to wheel. this is far surpassed by electric vehicles powered by lithium batteries, which have an energy efficiency of 80-90%, while millions of batteries can solve the storage problems of renewable energy. we will therefore work for the commission to take steps to promote this alternative.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me begin by thanking the committee on transport and tourism for setting out its vision of ports policy, and mr ortuondo larrea, the rapporteur, for his report. the report acknowledges the efforts made by the commission in developing a genuine european ports policy, and that is what unites us. the communication on a european ports policy is a response to the sector’s needs and concerns as identified by the commission following a broad consultation of the port sector from november 2006 to june 2007. the consultation results showed that there was agreement on the challenges faced by european ports: an increased demand for international transport, technological change, commitments to reduce greenhouse gases and other emissions, the need for dialogue, the need to ensure a level playing field. to face these challenges, we need an effective and efficient european port system. the communication is intended as an inventory of the state of play in the port sector, which is characterised by great diversity in terms of the size, role, traffic and management methods. parliament’s report rightly notes this diversity. as the communication clearly states, the commission has no intention of interfering with this diversity. i agree with parliament that the importance of our ports is linked not only to economic factors but also to the role of ports in society. indeed, parliament highlights the importance of ports, not only for maritime river and intermodal transport in europe and internationally, but also as a source of employment and a factor in the integration of the population. it logically follows that the sector lends itself to a europe-wide approach. the measures announced in the communication, which the industry agrees with and even clearly calls for, need to be implemented: guidelines on state aid, guidance on the application of environmental legislation, the european maritime transport space without barriers, and social dialogue. we have already started, and we are striving to achieve tangible results in the near future. the commission has adopted a communication proposing a clear framework and an action plan enabling european ports to face the challenges of today and tomorrow, to attract investment, and to contribute fully to co-modal transport chain development. i am firmly convinced that the communication and the practical measures it will generate will produce positive and beneficial results, ensuring that european ports continue to play a pivotal role in the logistics chain and as centres of growth and employment.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. the alde group supports the commission's new strategy for a european port policy. after two proposals for port directives had been rejected, a new approach was needed. and the series of consultations organised by the commission with all port stakeholders has shown the need for clarification of state aid rules to ensure fair competition between ports and the need for clarification of environmental rules. it is therefore a good strategy at this stage for the commission to draw up guidelines on state aid. there are many details to be worked out. it may be the question of how far into the port a road is a public project and when it becomes the responsibility of the port. the guidelines should provide a clear answer to such questions. it is important that there should be openness and transparency on the question of state aid, and i wholeheartedly support the rapporteur's recommendations here. the commission will also clarify how eu environmental legislation should be interpreted in relation to the expansion and development of ports. in the long term, port expansion can improve the environment by promoting more environmentally friendly maritime transport. the development of ports should not, of course, be at the expense of the environment. greater clarity can also ensure that environmental cases are not brought which are really only aimed at delaying and hindering port expansion - cases which are not brought out of genuine concern for the environment. the commission will promote the development of inter-port networks and ensure the development of good hinterland investments. how we get goods to and from ports is a major problem and good land transport links should be reflected better in the eu's support programmes in the future, not just in regional aid but perhaps also in a programme like marco polo. we must increase efficiency in ports through increased use of new technology and bureaucratization. i also think it is a good result of the consultation process that the dialogue between the social partners is likely to be more constructive in the future. being a dockworker is a culture in itself, but in a modern port it is also a highly specialised job in a dangerous workplace. it requires a focus on skills and training. and i think it is good that education has become part of the toolbox that the commission has launched. i would like to congratulate mr ortuondo on an excellent report and look forward to the commission putting the action plan into practice.
in writing. - despite the fact that there are elements of the flautre report which are critical, i am voting in favour of the report to show support for the fight for human rights.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i believe that everyone in this chamber will agree with me that, when reading about the individual cases of violation of human rights reported in this resolution, you feel that it cannot be referring to events taking place in this century. but this is the deplorable truth about the situation in a country that has fallen back to medieval, primitive brutality in the attempt to suppress its own people – a people that longs for democracy, liberty and reform. we, the western democracies, cannot negotiate for ever with the criminal regime in tehran in the naive hope that our weak negotiators could ever obtain anything from a regime that does not understand and respect the modern world and its values and that apparently hates its own people as much as it hates us. let this resolution be a last call for justice and human rights. i would also mention – and with deep regret – that the eu is still holding the democratic iranian opposition movement, the pmoi, on its list of terrorists, despite decisions by both the european court of justice in luxembourg and the highest british court that this is unjustified. finally, i support the oral amendments by mr kelam concerning the ashraf camp and the oral amendment by mr hutchinson. these amendments will improve the resolution.
on behalf of the uen group. – mr president, i want to join with the last two speakers, as the uen group is also against any changes to the existing oral amendments printed in the files.
rapporteur. − mr president, long before this crisis, the european socialist group and the european socialist party raised concerns over the tendencies on the financial markets for excessive debt, lack of transparency, taking high risks and paying too low prices, and making packages on leveraging which nobody could really understand or act on. we therefore raised our concerns as if looking into a new financial bubble. nobody could tell when this would be, but we are now at the centre of the storm – the ‘perfect storm’, as somebody called it. i feel very strongly that the debate this evening and tomorrow will be the most relevant debate in any parliament on financial markets anywhere in europe or in the united states – debate and decisions in the sense that we are looking forward, trying to make better regulation than we have now and trying to take on a broad responsibility for doing the job as well as we can. now is the time to act. we have seen what happened in the us, and, while someone said that it is not as bad in europe as in the us, i can only say that hbos, northern rock and many other such cases is enough to convince me to act. we have seen the new prognoses for our economies, for our jobs, for our competition and for our investment capability: that is enough for me to act. that is why i am proud to be telling parliament today and tomorrow that the pse group has made a compromise, following tough negotiations – which is as it should be on such an important matter – with the alde and ppe-de groups. we now have in front of us a balanced report which demands that the commission present proposals on legislation and regulation for all financial actors, including hedge funds and private equity. it is high time we did this, and i would remind parliament that we are now asking for mandatory capital requirements for all financial institutions. we are asking for an aligning of reward packages with longer-term outcomes in order to reflect losses as well as profits. we are asking for full transparency for high-level executives’ and senior managers’ remuneration systems. we are asking for disclosure of leverage/debt exposure, the source and amount of funds raised and identification of shareholders for all investment projects. we are asking for an extension of the directive requiring that employees be informed and consulted during take-overs to include leveraged buy-outs by private equity, and we are asking for measures to ‘avoid unreasonable asset stripping in target companies’. we are asking for actions to avoid excessive debt caused by leveraged buy-out, so that level of leverage is sustainable both for the private equity fund/firm and for the target company. i would like to ask mr mccreevy, the commissioner responsible for this area, to respond very concretely to these proposals. i know that they are new to him, but i insist on a timetable. we have asked for a response before the end of the year, which is three months from now. there may be details to discuss but, commissioner, you also owe this parliament a response, because we are not talking about a small minority, but a very broad majority within this parliament. i shall end by informing you that, as of four to five days ago, close to 90 000 people had signed a petition addressed to the european parliament, the united states and world leaders, organised by the global internet movement avaaz. i am delivering that petition on its behalf to those recipients. it reads: ‘we urge you to take a lead in fixing the fundamental flaws and loopholes which made this global financial crisis possible, including basic problems of debt and risk, incentives and transparency. we need you to work together to protect the public good by framing stronger rules for all parts of the global financial system. be bold, and we will support you. ’commissioner, will you be bold, together with us, support us and deliver preliminary answers before the end of the year? i must insist, on behalf of all of us, on a positive response.
member of the commission. − madam president, one of the latter speakers, in furtherance of his argument, made the point – but i am sure he did not mean me to use it against him – when he said, people should not be blinded by their own dogmatism. the danger in this particular debate is to try and get a balanced solution to the problems that we now have. in the main, the report, which has been amended considerably from the initial ideas put forward by mr rasmussen, makes a genuine attempt, in my view, to have a balanced approach to this whole area. but many of the contributors to the debate here in this house want to have an unbalanced approach to it, and that is not reflective of what was in the report. some – many of the speakers from one side of the argument, in particular – see the current financial turmoil and the difficulties which there undoubtedly are as the great opportunity to regulate everything out of existence, and the great danger is going to be, both nationally and in europe in particular, that a very unbalanced approach is going to be taken to this. i think mr purvis put his finger on the pulse when he made reference to the fact that the supreme irony of this particular financial crisis has been that it was the most heavily regulated sector, namely banks, that got themselves and the rest of us into considerable difficulty, and that it was not the activities of private equity or hedge funds that caused any of these problems at all. in fact many of them suffered considerable losses as a result of the things that happened in other areas. i certainly will take on board what mr purvis said about looking at what the incidence of short selling contributed to the demise of some of these institutions as against what long-term disposals by long-term investors have contributed to it. i suspect that mr purvis knows the answer nearly as well as i do, which is that, in those two particulars which he has referred to, it will not be short sellers that will be deemed to be the problem in this area: it was long-term investors, rightly getting rid of long-term positions, because they felt that a particular institution was not on a sound financial footing. but, be that as it may, i think the rasmussen and the leinen reports as they have come before us are a genuine attempt to look at all of these particular areas in a balanced way. and i am prepared to do that. for a number of months – for nearly a year now – i have signalled that i am going to do something in the area of credit-rating agencies. as far back as last november/december, i started the process by writing to cesr, posing them a number of questions, finally getting reports from them this year, and esme and other bodies, as well. and having received all of that, i will be putting forward a proposal before parliament and the council in the next couple of months. credit-rating agencies are referred to in this particular in the rasmussen report. i also have been making efforts for well over a year to try and get some semblance of order into the idea of colleges of supervisors or a better regulatory system for cross-border financial institutions. anyone that has been following this particular debate is very much aware that there has not been universal agreement or anything near it among the member states. the proposal which is currently before the econ committee under the rapporteurship of peter skinner, namely the solvency ii directive, and the ideas i put forward there about cross-border supervision of insurance companies and the considerable advancement there as to supervision, has run into considerable opposition from a large number of member states and from a large number of parliamentarians in this house who are affecting the views of the supervisors and in their own member states. and, even though the call in the main in this house is for better cross-border supervision, when a test is put in front of them as to what i should do about it to have a more coherent approach to cross-border supervision, they go back and represent their national positions. so let us have a little bit of honesty in all of this particular debate and in all of these debates. in the area of the capital requirements directive, as people who follow this in the econ committee will know, since the time we put through the capital requirements directive, left over from that were a number of areas which we said we would deal with in an amended capital requirements directive in the autumn of 2008. this is well over a year, 18 months ago. then we have added on to that, in particular, other areas, such as the cross-border supervision of financial groups, about which we finally got some type of conclusions from the ecofin council some months ago, and i have signalled what i am intending to do in the question of the ‘originate and distribute’ model. it goes a long way towards what i signalled were my intentions some months ago – what i want to do – and i put forward some propositions; it is reflected in mr rasmussen's report, which is more or less in the same idea as myself in this particular regard. but i will tell you this before it comes before the relevant committee: the members of parliament – if form is anything to go by in the past – will be representing the position of a lot of their own member states, which is very much anti what i have put forward there. so the proof of the pudding is going to be in the eating. there is no point in supporting mr rasmussen's report in this particular area and then, on the other hand, when the specific questions come before parliament in the form of a proposition – which i am putting forward also in the next couple of months and which many months ago i signalled i was going to do – if members of parliament then take their own national positions, representing the views of some of the banking firms in their own country and some of the views of the governments of the member states, then this will not necessarily be a very good idea. again i appeal for some type of rational approach, and at least some coherence. i very much respect the opinions of people who are consistent in all of this: people who say, ‘i do not think that is a particularly good idea’, and follow it through by saying it here in parliament and when they go before the committee and stick with that position. but where i do have difficulty is with people who in the main go along with some advancement in some of the areas which are referred to and then, when it gets down to a specific proposal, go back and more or less represent the views of their own member state’s position or of institutions in their own member state. but this particular city is probably the headquarters of the world lobbying industry. i have heard different figures over the years as to whether there are more lobbyists here than there are on capitol hill in washington, but there is not much between them in any event. so i will be interested, when some of the ideas which i am bringing forward, which i have signalled for some time and which are now in the public domain (there has been consultation about it, the papers have been out and everybody knows some of these propositions in the areas which have been referred to) – when, in the next very short while, these propositions come before members of the european parliament – whether all the members who spoke so heavily for some changes in the wider area, when it comes down to specifics, will follow through and support what is here. we have taken good note of the points identified in both the rasmussen and leinen reports. as i promised in my earlier remarks, we will respond to this in more detail in the context, as provided for in the framework agreement. mr rasmussen asked me if that would be before the end of this year – i think a couple of months ago he said that, hopefully, by the end of the year we would be able to respond – and i promised him we would be able to respond. but in response to the gentlemen who spoke about how everyone should not be blinded by their own dogmatism, i think he might be referring to the other side of the argument. i ask people on that side of the house not to be blinded by their own dogmatism either.
rapporteur. − madam president, i want to thank my colleagues, and also the commissioner, for the debate. just before i round off the debate as far as i am concerned on the report, i want to say to mr purvis, my colleague, that it is true that banks are regulated, but the products that were the cause of all this trouble we are having now are not regulated, and it was not regulated that we could put as much aside of the balance sheet as we actually did. so, mr purvis, the answer is that we need better regulation and we need regulation for the products as well. i would say to mrs starkevičiūtė, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, that i am not talking about regulating the entity but about regulating the behaviour. we know that in real life hedge funds and private equity often change their legal constructions, and there are a lot of examples of that – investment banks themselves have executed private equity activities. so it is behaviour we have to change, and this is at the heart of this report. i would say to commissioner mccreevy that there is one fundamental thing – which has nothing to do with dogmatism or whatever – that i want to underline to you, and that is that the first paragraph in our report underlines the following: that the regulation has to cover all financial actors. it is the fundamental intention of this report, for the first time in the european union’s legislative history, that what we want is a common total regulation based on the philosophy of a level playing field, leaving no one outside, but which has a unique regulation covering all financial actors. the report explicitly adds: ‘including hedge funds and private equity’. then you tell me, commissioner mccreevy, and the rest of the european parliament: yes, i agree with you, but not on hedge funds or private equity. what are we talking about here? for three years we have been discussing with you whether private equity or hedge funds should be covered or not covered by regulation. before the financial crisis you said this was not necessary: they are better than any government to regulate, so let them do their job. now you say that they do not have a share in the financial crisis, so we will not intervene in regulating the hedge funds and private equity. mr commissioner, you talked about lobbyism here in the european parliament. i can confirm to you that many hedge funds, lobbying organisations and private equity organisations are here every day, every night, every time. but i think this house must now insist that the commission – and that is you – come up, before the end of the year, with a total regulation; this is the first paragraph covering all financial actors. (applause)
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. i would like to thank mr bussereau and mr tajani for their work. i share the wish of other rapporteurs that we are close to adopting this important piece of legislation. i think it is strange that it should take the council so long to find a common position on the seven directives which are intended to prevent pollution disasters at sea and which are also intended to strengthen preparedness when things go wrong. it is regrettable that the two directives on the obligations of flag states and the liability of rescuers have been ignored for so long. i think we must include that in the overall package. i also believe, as many others have said, that the french presidency is making a wholehearted effort to find a solution now, and i would like to thank the alde group for that. i hope that the efforts will be crowned with success. we all agree that shipping is a global industry and therefore the legislation we adopt must be in line with the international maritime agreements of the imo and the paris memorandum. we have always supported this in parliament. the third maritime safety package is to ensure that we do not see any more mermaids in european waters in the future. there must be better monitoring of traffic, better control of the quality of ships and better exchange of experience on what creates the risk of accidents. the question of emergency ports has been a point of contention between parliament and the council. i myself live in a designated emergency port and i must clearly support parliament's demand that emergency ports be protected against an unpleasant extra charge if a ship with an oil leak is towed into port. it is important to ensure that small communities do not bear the financial burden of a subsequent clean-up. i would like to highlight two directives on which i was rapporteur for my group, namely the directive on port state control and the directive on accident investigation. in the context of the port state control directive, agreement is being reached on the principles proposed by the commission, namely that all ships should be checked and that bad ships should be checked more thoroughly. port state control must be brought up to a proper standard, so that there is more uniform control in all eu ports. however, there are still some problems. the council has not accepted checks on ships at anchor and it does not take the same firm stance as we have here in parliament to reject the worst of ships. the alde group fully endorses the position taken by the rapporteur, mr dominique vlastos, and thus supports the re-submission of a number of proposals from the first reading. as regards the directive on the clarification of accidents, there are also some points on which parliament and the council are still at odds. accident investigations and the dissemination of the results of these investigations shall ensure that accidents are not repeated. we must learn from the accidents that actually happen and as many as possible should learn from each other's experiences. as in aviation, there must be certainty that all involved give as open and honest a description of the accident as possible. the testimony of a witness at the explanatory hearing shall not be used directly in connection with an indictment in which the rights of the accused are to be examined. it is a difficult balance and there are some proposals which the council has not taken up from parliament's first proposal and which we are therefore putting forward again. the main point of contention, however, is the question of what types of accidents should be covered. the council will only take account of the most serious accidents, but it may be important that we learn from minor accidents, even near misses. in addition, the council will effectively give equal status to parallel studies carried out by several countries. we want clarity on which studies are official. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the road is not compromised. the alde group therefore wholeheartedly supports mr kohlicek's proposal to re-introduce the first reading proposal.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, thank you to caroline lucas for a very good report. we have established here, and there is consensus all along, that trade in tropical wood in the eu is a scandal. it has also been said many times tonight that we are tired of everything being stopped by solemn declarations and no action. i hope the commission hears how many people are calling for the commission to step in now and try to change things so that the future can look a little brighter. it is bringing illegal timber into the eu, and that in itself is absurd. if it had been any other product, we would have called it a scam. voluntary labelling schemes are a bit of a strange move. illegality must be outlawed, including in the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. i think it will be a shock to most people that it is even legal to buy illegal timber in the eu. of course, labeling is better than nothing. it is also grotesque to what extent it is the big timber companies - some of the worst of which come from my own country, denmark - that determine the eu's legislation, or lack thereof. i therefore support the rapporteur's call for the commissioner to start now with the revision of the international agreement, but we must also start at eu level. we desperately need it to be effective. although bad governance and corruption in the timber producing countries play a major role, we cannot, as has been said many times, ignore demand, which is the most important factor. as one of the world's largest importers of wood, the eu must take its responsibility. we need effective legislation to ensure that all wood products sold within the community - including processed wood - are both legal and sustainable. we can start immediately with the public procurement. that's all it took.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. madam president, when i turned on the car radio early monday morning on my way to the airport, the first thing i heard was that my bank was in a serious financial crisis. luckily, i'm a thrifty man, so i'm not losing any money. but the shareholders are crying. the worldwide economic crisis has reached my little financial institution. the core of the problem lies in the way globalization has developed. the right to free movement of capital across borders is one of them. speculation is rife as never before, with no other purpose than to convince some owners that this is the way to make a profit. for the real economy, this traffic is only harmful, just as we see it right now, where speculation in the us housing market has triggered an international financial crisis. the idea that the free movement of capital is the way to development and wealth must therefore be abandoned. the free movement of persons is only for the benefit of speculators and tax evaders. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined by the fact that the member states are not able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. control of capital movements will give democracy greater insight and influence. what, then, is the solution to the present crisis? a taxpayer-funded safety net will certainly increase aggressive and speculative foreign policy in the financial sector and promote the worst of capitalism. banks have to clean up after the crash and the crisis. this is not the job of the national banks and therefore not the job of the taxpayer. danish financial adviser kim valentin proposes a bailout fund funded by the banks themselves. it is absolutely essential that the banks should put so much money into the new fund that they really have an interest in watching each other and intervening when crises arise, because they themselves have to pay for the clean-up. i propose that we use the eu to set strict rules on the size of bank rescue funds. we will also be responding to the wishes of un secretary-general ban ki-moon for a global, responsible economic policy. banks must stop being like children who have never tried to fall and therefore do not know that they can be beaten.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we all want the fastest and best treatment if we get seriously ill, but i don't want an american model where the resourceful citizens get the best treatment and the weak in society get second-rate treatment - if they're lucky. if they're unlucky, they get none at all. that is why we must establish some basic principles. everyone should have free and equal access to health care, and treatment should be tailored to their needs. that is, a public authority must carry out a visit to ensure that it is a medical professional's judgment that determines what is needed. the sickest should be treated first, not the richest. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's health policy. the eu's legislation must not be shaped by an ideological school of thought based on the single market. it must follow a path that creates a flexible system in europe where all citizens' minimum rights in relation to treatment are guaranteed.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the road to hell is paved with golden promises, and it does not take a professor to see what the result of this proposal in its present form will be. on the one hand, an a-team of the wealthy, the well-educated and the well-connected -- that's pretty much all of us in this room. we must be able to skip the waiting list in our own country and seek the best experts in the eu. we can afford the treatment, and we can afford the travel and other extra expenses. on the other hand, the poor and the underprivileged. they can be allowed to stand at the back of the line, and when they finally do, they get the treatment that we, the richest, have been unwilling to accept. the eu presents itself as an alternative to the us on festive occasions, but the point is that the eu is becoming more and more like the us - also in the field of health. in our group, we support free and equal access to necessary treatment. that's why we're saying no to this play.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank the commission for having put forward this directive. i think it is extremely important that we have the opportunity to deal with the rights of patients politically and not leave it to the court of justice of the european communities to decide on such an important matter. as far as i'm concerned, the patients are the most important thing. we must focus on patients, but we must also think about how we are going to organise this directive so that we can focus on all patients' possibilities for good treatment. i therefore believe it is important that we ensure that the directive allows patients who stay at home in their member state to receive proper treatment. and that is why i believe that this prior authorization should be the rule and not the exception. i think that's what we need to focus on. i would also like to agree with my colleague mrs sârbu when she says that we must be careful not to create a division between east and west and between north and south in europe with this directive.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i am not sure that this is the case. i wonder if anyone in this chamber remembers back to when the constitution was changed to the lisbon treaty because it was rejected in the netherlands and france. the european union symbols were removed because it was thought that european citizens were particularly sceptical of the constitutional aim of making the union a state. now the european parliament - which is, of course, the only body in the eu where citizens can vote - is in the process of reintroducing them. it looks more like a parody of democracy. the parody of democracy, perpetrated by institutions that have no respect for those for whom they exist. the eu is for the people. the citizens are not for the eu. it is therefore indecent to remove something on the grounds that it is to meet the needs of the people and then to reintroduce it a few months later! in this case i have to say that i am simply ashamed to be in the european parliament. we cannot be known to fool the public in this way. i would ask anyone who has even the slightest respect for the voters who elected them to this office to vote against it today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as has already been said, the common symbols - the anthem, the flag, the motto - were removed from the constitutional treaty when it was amended to the treaty of lisbon. some of the proponents of the lisbon treaty even claimed that it was an expression of listening to the people's disapproval. in some countries, the removal of the constitutional symbols was even used as an argument that there was no reason to hold a referendum on the lisbon treaty. for example, the danish government stated in a document to the danish people that the treaty of lisbon, and i quote, 'will be cleared of symbolic provisions on the anthem, motto and flag of the european union'. "be made clean"! and then you have to ask, what difference has that made in the real world? it doesn't make any difference. in reply to me, the commission itself has written that the fact that the treaty does not mention the symbols does not change their status. nothing changes their status! and now parliament must take the next step. perhaps some people think that the intensification of the use of symbols is a source of enthusiasm for the european union. perhaps some people think that the symbols can cover up the lack of results for the benefit of the population. i don't think it was. for many citizens, this will be just another example of the eu elite doing exactly what they want. it would send the wrong signal and i do not think we should adopt the proposal.
in writing. − we share the concern of the resolution about the effects of climate change on the sustainability of the communities that inhabit the arctic area as well as the effects on the natural habitat; and we recognise the significance of the arctic for the global climate and therefore the arctic as a common concern. we cannot, however, support this resolution as its point of departure is first and foremost the interests of the eu. we believe that a policy which is not firmly rooted in the interests of the peoples of the arctic area is illegitimate. we believe that the starting point for all talks and initiatives concerning the arctic area must be the respect of the sovereign territory of the arctic nations and equally the inclusion of all the peoples of the arctic area as equal partners. finally, during the vote, a majority rejected an amendment which stressed the need for the arctic to become a demilitarised and nuclear-free zone; thereby clearing the path for the arctic policy that this resolution calls for to include a militarisation of arctic and placement of nuclear weapons in the area. we can under no circumstances support this.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to let you do this. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to draw parliament's attention to the fact that the danish government has not implemented directive 2002/73/ec on equal treatment. on 21 march 2007, the commission sent a letter of formal notice to the danish government, in which it pointed out, inter alia, that denmark did not comply with the provisions of the directive on the designation of a body to promote, evaluate and monitor and support equal treatment between women and men. denmark had such a body under the previous government, but the current government closed it down the same year the directive was introduced. the commission must now react and ask the danish government to set up a body to ensure that danish women do not fall further behind in terms of equal treatment and equal pay.
the commission is not - mr president, commissioner, i have to say that i am not in favour of the proposal. members of the house! the commission has put forward a good and constructive proposal to amend the existing recovery plan for cod in the north sea, skagerrak and kattegat, among other areas. despite the recovery plan so far, far more cod is still being fished than is produced by farming. the celtic sea has been included in the recovery plan because new evaluations indicate that the cod stock is also overexploited and in poor condition. the aim of these changes is to ensure that cod stocks are restored within the next five to ten years. the objective is to reduce fishing mortality by between 10% and 25% depending on the state of the stock. this is complemented by a regulation of fishing effort and control and inspection provisions. the targets need to be revised to achieve the maximum sustainable yield, even if sea conditions change as a result of global warming. the operation management system shall be simplified. it has become so complex that a new system based on action ceilings, to be managed by the member states, is necessary. they are given greater latitude to achieve more effective implementation. the plan shall be adapted to different levels of recovery. therefore, a modulated approach is envisaged, whereby an adjustment of fishing mortality is a function of the recovery achieved. the introduction of clear rules to be applied when scientists cannot provide accurate estimates of the state of stocks. the need to reduce discards by introducing new mechanisms to encourage fishermen to participate in programmes to avoid catching cod. overall, the commission wants to change the current recovery plan for cod to make it more complete, to update it to the latest developments, and to make it simpler, more efficient and easier to implement, control and monitor. the tacs: new rules are introduced for fixing the allowable catches, where the size of stocks is measured in relation to the minimum and target quantities respectively. in addition, when fixing the tac, the council shall deduct a quantity of cod corresponding to the expected discard rate calculated on the basis of the total cod catch. other factors contributing to fishing mortality will also revolutionize the total catch of cod when setting the tac. every three years, the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries of the commission shall carry out an evaluation of the recovery of cod stocks. if the stock developments prove unsatisfactory, the council shall fix a tac at a level lower than that resulting from the above rules and a lower fishing effort. as rapporteur i have tabled a number of amendments to the commission's proposal, and my colleagues have tabled some amendments to the same effect. the main point is that the reference years are changed from 2005-2007 to 2004-2006 because the data for the year 2007 are so new that we cannot be sure of them and therefore it is most appropriate to use the data that we know. it is also important to take account of the fact that cod stocks will eventually be restored, so that not only reductions but also changes can be made. the system of transfers from one group of instruments to another is being made more flexible in order to respond to external circumstances such as the increase in fuel prices, which, even after the fall in recent weeks, are at a very high level. regional advisory councils should be involved as much as possible. both fishermen and member states should be encouraged to introduce measures to reduce fishing mortality and to reduce discards. in conclusion, i would like to thank the french presidency and the commission for their very good cooperation.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the committee on fisheries and especially its rapporteur mr busk for his thorough and well-considered report. i am pleased that parliament shares the commission’s views on cod recovery. fishing mortality is too high. the abundance of cod is too low. even though in some areas there are more young fish in the sea than in past years, this is still an opportunity rather than a recovery. i am also pleased that parliament agrees on the need for recruiting the celtic sea as well as on the need for important cuts in fishing mortality through tac and effort reductions. i agree with many of parliament’s proposed amendments, but i cannot agree directly with parliament’s texts. this is only because similar legal texts already exist or are being developed in consultation with member states, and i do not want to pre-empt the results of technical discussions being undertaken. now to specifics. i accept your amendments 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 13, 14 and 16. on amendment 2, i agree with the principle, but the powers of the commission and council are already established in the ec treaty, and the role of the regional advisory councils is set out in article 31 of the basic regulation. on amendment 3 regarding discard reduction, i have been working on a separate initiative. you will be aware of the commission’s communication of spring 2007 concerning discarding. this will shortly be followed up with a proposal for a regulation. on amendment 7, i accept that, for stocks in very high-risk situations, a limit of 15% on tac increases should apply. but council should keep the option of a decrease that is larger than 15%. on amendment 8, i accept the inclusion of a reference to seal mortality as an example, and of considerations of climate change on cod when a review of the plan is made. on amendment 10, the chapter rightly refers to a limitation of fishing effort. reference to determination would imply that fishing effort would only be measured, not managed. therefore i cannot accept this amendment. on amendment 11, i can reconsider the base line for the calculation of kilowatt days. however, member states need to be involved in this discussion. on amendment 12, the text of the proposed article 8a, paragraph 3, was indeed confusing, and we will be redrafting it to make it clearer. on amendment 15, the proposal concerning ring-fencing of capacity was too restrictive and could prevent reorganisation of the activities of fishing fleets. i am still discussing with member states how to provide a suitable degree of flexibility while still ensuring that the fishing effort does not increase. therefore, my preference is to improve the existing text rather than delete it. on amendment 17, i can accept the principle of effort transfers, subject to a correction factor reflecting the importance of cod catches in different sectors. but the subject is complicated and needs to be looked into further. on amendment 18, for legal reasons i cannot accept the deletion of the reference to the decision-making procedure. the procedure referred to is that required by the ec treaty. i thank you for your attention and for you constructive contributions on this file.
for the pse group. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr niels busk, for his excellent cooperation in the preparation of this report. i think we have reached a good result. our changes will make the system simpler, more flexible, more efficient and less bureaucratic. in the review of the commission's approach, we emphasize, among other things, that the success of the cod recovery plan depends to a large extent on the absence of illegal, unreported or unregulated fishing. control and monitoring are important instruments to ensure compliance with the fisheries rules. in addition, the relevant regional advisory councils in the member states as well as the fisheries industry should be better involved in the evaluation and decision-making process, so that regional specificities and needs are taken into account in the future development and development of the management mechanisms. the effective implementation of the recovery plan requires the involvement of all stakeholders concerned to ensure regional legitimacy and compliance. in the report we also stress that the recovery plan has major implications for the fishing industry and the economic and social development of the local community, which is why the commission should also reconsider the system of fishing effort when the cod stock has improved significantly.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank the honourable members for the interesting debate which demonstrates the commitment of parliament to the recovery of cod. indeed, parliament’s report largely concurs with and supports the commission proposal to make our current plan more flexible and effective and at the same time more comprehensive. as many of you have pointed out, cod has started to show some signs of improvement, and fishers will tell you that cod has returned to our seas. however, it is a fact that this is attributable to one particular year class – the 2005 year class – now that the cod has matured to sizes whereby it is caught within our nets. we therefore need to be careful how to manage this, because if we reward this one particular year prematurely we will end up in a situation where the possible recovery of this stock will be lost. this has already happened twice in the last 15 years – once in the irish sea and once in the north sea – where we took premature action rewarding a particular year class and ended up with a situation where we had to start again from scratch. it is therefore crucial that we act in a way whereby responsible management will tell us that we should do our utmost in order to reduce effort by various measures and various means, and at the same time see to it that discards of cod are reduced. this can be done by means of results-based management which the cod recovery plan introduces, and i would encourage member states to also work with us so that we will be able to have a cod recovery plan which will in time bring about a complete recovery of cod. having said that, i would like to say a word on discards in general because discards is not an issue which relates only to cod. obviously we speak of cod because that is of particular relevance to the north sea, but we have various other stocks of fish that are discarded, and this is a very sensitive issue around the european union where public opinion is mounting in a very negative way. i am determined to tackle it, and i intend to revisit the whole issue because so far progress has been very slow. i think that we need to look at the picture in a much more general way so that we immediately begin with significant measures to curb discarding, and later on i will come back to you with proposals as to how we can effectively curb discarding in the north sea. we are also discussing this with partners like norway to see how we can take effective measures to reduce cod fishery effort, but at the same time introduce measures to reduce cod discards in particular, as well as tackling the problem of discards of other fish stocks. concerning the celtic sea, to which mrs doyle made reference, it is true that ices says that the state of the stock is somewhat better than in the other seas. having said that, however, they still maintain that the stock is in bad shape and needs to be recovered, which is why we have included it as part of the new cod recovery plan. it is nonetheless still in very bad shape. the fact that a tac is set does not mean that the stock is in good shape because most of our fisheries are regarded as being fished above sustainable levels, and you set tacs which would be on a diminishing scale. when it is really bad then it would be a zero tac. in the case of the celtic sea, the situation is somewhat better but still the state of this stock is far from good. concerning the point made on cod in the baltic sea, although this is not part of this cod recovery plan we did introduce a cod recovery plan in the baltic sea in 2007. this year, on the basis of ices advice and probably not so much a result of the cod recovery plan itself but of the significant efforts made by poland and by polish fishers, the very bad situation for eastern cod has improved but the situation for western cod in the western baltic has got worse. we will therefore have to take tougher measures for western baltic cod, but can maybe take somewhat less tough measures for eastern cod.
the commission is not mr president, i thank the commissioner and the members for the very great effort and very good amendments which were absolutely necessary to make this recovery plan as complete as possible. i would point out that it is of the utmost importance now that the recovery plan is a success. we owe it to the fishermen, but it is also true, as has been said here tonight, that we have spoken about the recovery of cod and, indeed, other species. we have been doing this for the last ten years without reaching our goal, and that is why it is important that this should happen now. i would like to say a few words about illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. we do not know the extent of this, but i have no doubt that it will have very serious negative consequences for the recovery plans we have implemented in recent years. it is an affront to the fish stocks, it is an affront to the fishing industry, it is an affront to society as a whole, and this has been emphasized time and again by the european parliament. we must have much better and more effective controls so that we can stop illegal fishing. and i would also mention that we have to include, we have to measure the fish that seals, gulls and other birds of prey and other predatory fish are eating. it is an area where there are certainly none, because it is almost like unreported fishing, which takes into account what quotas are. the environment is another area which we have also been talking about for ten years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quota system is properly applied. and i am of course pleased, commissioner, that you say tonight that you have a plan ready, but it is totally unsatisfactory that we have been talking about this subject for ten years without having achieved anything! it is sad, and we must do something about it, or this recovery plan will not succeed either!
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. i would like to thank the president-in-office. the development of the labour market in the light of the very far-reaching rüffert, laval and waxholm judgments is in sharp contrast to the desire to introduce the flexicurity model as an economic model for europe. it seems to be completely forgotten that the flexicurity model is based on a century-long tradition of the labour market having the right to negotiate collective agreements independently and with great power. it is therefore impossible to introduce a model of flexibility into the european labour market and at the same time to introduce legislation or accept judgments which make it difficult for trade unions to implement and maintain a system based on collective agreements. if we introduce flexicurity and accept that the eu's internal market rules are overridden by the considerations of wage negotiation and safety at work, we will have effectively bombed a hundred years of labour struggles back to the stone age. the andersson report is a bandage on the wound that the court of justice has made in a hundred years of labour struggle, but it is far from enough.
i have to say, madam president, i would say, do not shoot at the court of justice and do not shoot at the directive on posting. it is up to the member states to do better. after the laval judgment, we are now implementing a change in the law in denmark, agreed with the social partners. the nine lines of the law ensure that unions can clash to ensure working conditions that are customary in the field. in sweden, too, the question of how to implement the directive on posting should be addressed. we must not change the directive. we need better information so that workers know their rights and employers know their obligations. what is needed is better implementation of the directive in practice.
i have to say, madam president, my danish colleague from the liberal group said earlier that the problem we have had following the waxholm judgment had been solved in denmark. i have to deny that! you think you've solved it, but whether it's solved is for the european court of justice to decide. and that's the problem. the question of whether it is legal to strike in different member states is now being decided by the court of justice of the european union. that's why we need to revise the treaty. we need to have the treaty rewritten to make it clear that this cannot be true. the andersson report does not fix this, unfortunately. it's got some good beats, but it's missing the last bit. for example, it also lacks a clear requirement that the secondment directive be amended, and i would therefore urge that we vote in favour of the amendments which clarify these matters so that we can get a clear line from the european parliament.
in writing. mobility in the european labour market must be strengthened. this calls for greater emphasis on equal treatment and non-discrimination. if you go from one country to another to work, you must of course work under the conditions of the country you are going to. countries should look at their implementation of the posting of workers directive. so that it creates more clarity. but there are also european solutions. - the right to strike must not be subject to the rules of the internal market. - the secondment directive must be adjusted to its original intention. it must be possible for countries to create better conditions for posted workers than the minimum requirements. we are thus strengthening mobility, equal treatment of workers and collective agreements, including the right to collective action.
mr president, this crisis could have been avoided: it is not an unavoidable law of nature. it is a long story, and i do not have time to go into it, but for now one thing is certain: please let us learn from our experience and let us do things together. let us keep momentum. president sarkozy, you are so full of energy, but keep this energy now because, urgent as it was to avoid a meltdown of our banks, it is now just as urgent to regulate better and prevent this recession taking hold. i appeal to you today, and also to the president of the commission, to make the following commitments. first: give us a pre-christmas gift, president barroso – concrete proposals on new and better regulations. i am sure that the president-in-office of the council, president sarkozy, agreed with me when he asked you to commit yourself today to respond to this report from the european parliament with the following concrete proposal: it is not only about regulating the banks, but also about regulating hedge funds and private equity. that is the first commitment. i was so happy, president sarkozy, when at camp david you mentioned this simple fact at the outset, because hedge funds and private equity companies are now trying to tell the story that they have nothing to do with the financial crisis. this is simply not true. they have been operating with excessive debt and greed for many years, so, please, promise me today that all actors will have to be regulated; otherwise we are not learning from our experience. second: i could mention a lot of details, but i just want to have an answer from commission president barroso – please commit yourself to living up to this parliament’s proposals on regulating the market. the last point is directed at president sarkozy. you and i – and we all – think this is a time of destiny for the european union. do not give ordinary people the impression that the european union is incapable of avoiding a recession that will hit millions and millions of innocent workers. that is why i want to repeat what you yourself said: let us do it together. i have calculations, and i think we should ask the commission to confirm, president sarkozy, that if we do things together and invest just 1% more in infrastructure, in education, in labour market policy, and in investment in private industry each year for the next four years, we will have 10 million more jobs. i think this is a target worth going for, and i sincerely hope that you will commit yourself, president sarkozy, to realising this in december or before. it is now or never.
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament have voted in favour of the own-initiative report on better regulation, but wish to stress that the removal of administrative burdens can be a very political process. we support the aim of eliminating unnecessary administrative burdens. however, some administrative burdens may be of great necessity to society, even though they may be perceived as inhibiting the growth and innovation of enterprises. we believe that a balanced approach to reducing administrative burdens is necessary.
in writing. the danish social democrats in the european parliament voted against the report on the erasmus mundus ii programme. it is not because we are against the programme, but because the wording of the funding risks opening up the possibility of user payments for danish students. overall, we support the purpose of the erasmus mundus programmes. the danish social democrats in the european parliament have voted in favour of the own-initiative report on better regulation, but would like to stress that the removal of administrative burdens can be a very political process. we support the aim of eliminating unnecessary administrative burdens. however, some administrative burdens may be of great necessity to society, even though they may be perceived as inhibiting the growth and innovation of enterprises. we believe that a balanced approach to reducing administrative burdens is necessary.
the commission is not - madam president, every day europeans are made ill by air pollution. every day, europeans are even dying from air pollution from traffic in europe. we also know that we're facing some extreme climate change. climate change, which is caused not least by the excessive use of fuel in the transport sector. for those two reasons, the legislation we are discussing here tonight is extremely important. and for those two reasons, it is an extremely important compromise that we have negotiated between parliament and the council of ministers, which we hope to adopt tomorrow. what we are agreeing is that the authorities in europe must play a much greater role in combating the pollution of our air. what we are saying is that when you decide to buy a vehicle - it may be a junk car, it may be a bus, it may be another vehicle to be used to carry out the tasks that you have in the public sector - yes, you must not just take into account the price in kroner and øre or euro and cent. the health, environmental and climate costs of the car's emission of various types of particles must also be taken into account, since the car, by burning fossil fuels, causes increased pollution and thus greater global warming. we are not forcing local authorities to choose the most environmentally sound solution, but we are forcing local authorities to take the health and environmental consequences into account in their calculations, and we are creating openness and transparency about the decisions that are being made, and thus i am also sure that many more public authorities in europe will make the right, the green choices rather than the short-term, perhaps cheaper choices, if you only count in dollars and cents, and that is the whole point of the proposal. in addition to the fact that this will probably and hopefully have some direct environmental effects, because the public sector actually accounts for a large proportion of the purchases of a wide range of vehicles, such as buses, with public authorities in europe accounting for about a third of the purchases that exist. in addition to the very direct environmental impact, this proposal will also have a secondary effect. we want to create a demand for particularly environmentally friendly vehicles. a demand that can drive the market, that can make it profitable for industry to develop new and better and more environmentally friendly vehicles, even before the legislation says they should. it is important for me to emphasize that this is not a very bureaucratic arrangement. it's not about putting a bunch of tough rules on the authorities. it's not about creating a lot of red tape. on the contrary, we have created a system which is very easy to implement, to implement. a system which also includes exceptions where they may be necessary, and not least a system which ensures that there is already a well-functioning system which takes account of the environmental and health consequences of car purchases, that system can be maintained. as i said, we have negotiated an agreement, a compromise. in doing so, i think we have also sent an important signal that we are united in this parliament on this important legislation. i'd like to thank all the shadow speakers. i would like to thank the commission for the good cooperation. i would like to thank the french presidency for the determined effort it has made to reach this compromise. i am proud that tomorrow we will be able to vote on legislation that will reduce pollution in europe, that will put public authorities in the lead in the fight against global warming and the fight against air pollution that is making many europeans sick every year.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. thank you, mr president! and thanks to dan jørgensen for a good and open cooperation. it is a necessary law which we hope will be adopted tomorrow, and the experience of denmark, at least, from which dan and i come, has taught us that unless a proper framework for green procurement is created, there will be no more talk. the government chooses the cheapest offer, not the greenest. it is therefore right to make it compulsory for the authorities in europe to take account of co2 emissions and particulate matter emissions, among other things, when investing in new vehicles. we would have preferred to see everyone be required to use a common method of taking account of environmental impact in the award of contracts, so that it became clear that the polluter pays. internalisation of external costs, as we call this principle, is something we all want. it will also give producers certainty as to the award criteria used. but we can live with the solution we have come up with here, where municipalities and the state can choose whether they want to put specific requirements on fuel consumption and particulate emissions in the tendering material, or they want to use a model where the environmental impact of the vehicle is priced and thus becomes part of the contract basis. we are pleased that the price proposed in the proposal for a kilogram of co2 is more in line with the expected market price. only then will there be a strong incentive to develop clean buses, trucks and cars. it is a pity that we could not get a majority in the committee to make the same demands on the trade in used vehicles. there is no practical reason why we should not use them here as well. by applying them only to new cars, it will take far too long for the good effects of the proposal to take hold, and we do not have time to wait for these much-needed improvements. nevertheless, this legislation is an important step towards using the enormous purchasing power of the public sector to push for green solutions everywhere.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, i should like to begin by telling mr rübig and mr ayala sender that i will be speaking to the commissioners responsible to answer the questions they have raised. i thank all the other members who took part in this debate, which was certainly not a flat debate but rather a lively one with observations and even some polemics which are always well done. i would like to stress only three points in my reply, mr president. first point of the game. a cost-benefit analysis carried out as part of the impact assessment of the proposal indicates that the potential gains are significant, as the likely higher initial investment costs for vehicles will be offset by savings from lower energy consumption and lower emissions of co2 and other pollutants. second point. by including the impact of vehicles over their lifetime as one of the criteria for assessment, not only would there be no additional costs but significant savings could be achieved, both for operators and for society. the third element. the savings in fuel costs, which directly benefit the operator, alone far exceed any higher costs incurred at the time of purchase.
the commission is not - mr president, i have to say something. i believe that in ten or twenty years' time the citizens of europe will have a very different environmental awareness than they do today. at that time i do not think it is at all possible to imagine spending taxpayers' money, that is to say, spending citizens' money and earnings, on something less than the most environmentally friendly. until then, perhaps those of us who support the compromise which will be voted on tomorrow can look back with pride on having taken some of the first steps in the right direction. i would therefore like to thank once again the shadow rapporteurs who helped to draw up the compromise. i would also like to thank you for the many positive words that have been spoken here today about the negotiations that have taken place. i should also like to comment on the critical voices that have been heard. there have been a few. i think mr. ulmer was the one who was the most singing in his voice. he said, for example, that this was too bureaucratic. no, it's not very bureaucratic. it's actually done in a very simple and very flexible way. it's actually done in a way that even the smallest municipality, even the smallest little patch, region will have the ability to do this quite easily. there are also exceptions in areas where this is justified. he also said something else, namely that it would have no effect. my dear colleagues, a hundred thousand passenger cars are bought every year by public authorities in europe. a hundred thousand - that's a million in ten years. don't tell me that it won't have an impact if we influence those purchases to be more green. of course it does. for lorries, the figure is 35 000 per year and for buses, 17 000 per year. 17 000 is in fact one third of all the buses purchased in europe each year. it's obviously having a big impact. i am, however, taking a different view of mr ulmer's speech. that's when he pointed out that his attitude is unlikely to have any impact on the outcome tomorrow. i think he is quite right about that, fortunately for him.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to take the liberty of giving an overall perspective, because so far the harmonization of medicines legislation in the european union has only meant that the rules in denmark have been weakened and the sale of medicines has increased. the new proposal on marketing authorizations for medicines is a helping hand to the pharmaceutical industry. it is generally easier to make small changes in medicines and to release them under the same name as the previous speaker mentioned, and at the same time it is easier to change the name of a product if it is to be sold as a preparation for another condition. it is to be feared that these changes will make it more difficult to monitor as a consumer and will make the pharmaceutical industry's job easier. and there we have to look at the fact that the correlation between easier access to authorization of medicines and an increased risk for consumers is unfortunately often directly proportional. i do not think we should impose unnecessary administrative constraints on industry, but we should not accept relaxing the rules when human or animal health is at stake in order to make profits in the pharmaceutical industry. so you're just walking the wrong way in town. this directive, if we look at it in the larger context, is part of the industry's efforts to improve earnings in relation to the united states. let's not be naive. and we must not be misled by beautiful but empty declarations of intent in relation to patients and consumers.
in writing. −the european court of justice's decisions in the vaxholm/viking line/rüffert/luxembourg cases have clearly favoured the single market and the right of free establishment at the expense of workers' rights, including the right to conflict to avoid social dumping. but the decisions of the ecj do not come out of the blue. they are based on the eu's founding treaties, supplemented by an unclear posting directive. if a majority in the european parliament really wanted to defend the interests of workers, it would demand that the eu's treaty basis be changed, for example in the form of a legally binding social protocol that would put workers' fundamental rights above the internal market and the right of free establishment. the final version of the andersson report, which is the result of a collaboration between the socialist rapporteur and the conservatives, does not make this crucial demand. the report does not even manage to call for a revision of the posting of workers directive. the report thus becomes a bag of warm air surrounded by a lot of nice words and wishes. the popular movement has tabled a number of amendments, such as that the regulation of the right of action should remain a national matter. all these amendments have been voted down by the social democratic-conservative alliance. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the baltic sea. in return, we will continue to work to defend employees against the deterioration in wage and working conditions which the judgments of the european court of justice have opened up.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking mrs jutta haug for her excellent work in holding all the ends of this budgetary procedure together. the alde group supports the outcome of the vote in the committee on budgets. for alde, energy and climate policy, as well as research and innovation, have been key priorities for the 2009 budget. we share mrs haug's view that climate and energy policy is not reflected sufficiently in the budget and look forward to the commission's clear proposal in the spring on how this area can be supported at eu level. the alde group has been concerned, in the face of russia's invasion of georgia, both to secure reconstruction aid for georgia and to support the development of the nabukkah gas pipeline, which is to ensure a gas supply to europe outside russian control. we are pleased that a majority has supported these priorities. the present draft budget removes some of the council's savings and provides a more realistic estimate of the payment needs for the coming years. we are reaching the ceiling of the multiannual budget agreement in three areas of expenditure, namely 1a research, education and transport and 3b legal policy, and we are exceeding the ceiling in area 4, foreign policy. the budgetary ceilings for foreign policy are chronically too narrow and each year we have to fight to finance new priorities. it is strange to see heads of state writing bills to the eu budget that their own finance ministers will not honour. the commission has proposed to finance the food facility for developing countries with the money saved from eu export refunds. the money is saved because of the high food prices, which in turn create hunger problems in the poor countries. the idea is correct, but from a budgetary point of view we must do it in a different way, so that we respect the agreements reached between the institutions. the proposal is therefore that the food facility and additional appropriations for palestine, kosovo and afghanistan should be found using reserves such as the flexibility reserve. it is not fair to find the money by cutting important programmes for poor countries. the alde group has put forward a proposal to set aside 12% of the resources of the structural funds programmes. the background was that we wanted to press the commission to do more to avoid the errors of 12% which were revealed in the discharge procedure for the 2006 budget. we thought that such a reserve could be an instrument to follow up on the 2006 discharge, but we have not been able to get sufficient support to go down this road, and we must take that into account, but i hope that the commission will make an effort. mr lewandowski has had an interesting job with the budget of parliament and the other institutions. i think he has found a good compromise, where parliament's budget is kept below 20% of administrative expenditure.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to let you do this. minister! i see bosnia's future in europe. it must and must succeed in bringing peace and stability to this country, however complex its centuries of history may have been. but it's a long way. however, a good start is often made with practical improvements and cooperation in solving common practical everyday problems such as trade, police structure, energy supply and, not least, the possibility of the many internally displaced persons being able to have a home again. it is important to focus on young people. it must be given a belief in a future in the country. it must be guaranteed good training opportunities, including opportunities for traineeships and training stays both in the current eu member states and in neighbouring countries. i think it is crucial that young people in the western balkans see themselves as europeans, because it is in a european context that the solution to the future of the region lies. the european union must be prepared to promote this process and reiterate that the perspective is membership of the union. the stabilisation and association agreement is a tool on the way. but the people and politicians of bosnia must be active and positive actors if our common hopes and vision are to succeed.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. madam president, thank you to the rapporteur for a fine report. it is a fine piece of work and we have been particularly pleased with the great willingness to cooperate. i also thank the ombudsman for an excellent annual report. the institution is of enormous importance to the european union. the ombudsman's work shows that the eu is closer to its citizens than is often claimed. they listen to the critics. fortunately, it's going the right way. a much higher number of complaints than last year were resolved to the satisfaction of the complainant by the eu institution itself addressing the complaint. it shows that the eu system is beginning to understand the need to serve citizens in the best possible way. unfortunately, some institutions do not follow the recommendations. the only thing the ombudsman can do is to refer the matter to parliament, and he cannot be accused of abusing this opportunity. only one case came before the committee on petitions last year. when a case comes before us in this house, we must make it clear that we are at least in principle prepared to go to the court of justice if the institution does not comply with the ombudsman. in this way we can give the ombudsman the necessary weight and authority in the system. i have tabled a number of amendments on behalf of the green group, the sole purpose of which is to clarify the concept of errors and omissions, or in english 'mismanagement'. it should be possible to identify the cases in which the ombudsman can find that an institution or body of the union has not followed the rules and principles applicable to it. this is a case of mistakes and neglect. however, there are no errors or omissions where the ombudsman merely notes that there is scope for improvement in the institution's handling of cases. that is the distinction my amendments seek to make. finally, a question which is consistent with what mrs harkin also said about when cases are rejected. we'd like to know why they're being rejected. i would like to see that point made, and i would like to ask whether it is also made clear in the reply to the complainants, because otherwise, as was said before, it is very frustrating.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this year marks the 10th anniversary of the introduction of the euro in a large number of eu countries. in denmark we have twice refused to adopt the euro after a long and thorough debate, and now it is time to take stock. and we must look very critically at the common currency. since july, the euro has fallen by 30% against the dollar, after the financial crisis began. investors lack confidence in the euro. the question is why! part of the answer is straightforward: there is much to suggest that the monetary policy pursued in the eu, where the emphasis is on fighting inflation, is not the right one. the very tight fiscal policy which the countries are forced to pursue because of the stability pact is not the right one at the moment. the low value of the euro against the dollar is due to a lack of confidence in the economic policies of the euro area countries. it can also be said that the financial crisis shows that the 'one size fits all' objective of the euro is not the right one. more and more economists are calling for an expansionary fiscal policy. if we want to use it as a tool, we need far more individual economic policies than the euro allows. one size fits all never really suits anyone. it always suits everyone half-badly. finally, i have to say to mr klinz - who says that we in denmark want to be part of the euro and that our currency is weak - that the danish economy is very strong and that we have handled the financial crisis better than the average of the euro countries.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. the health check was marketed as being where we should look for simplification and bureaucratization. these were the big headlines when we started our debate. it was also a headline that we should prepare eu agriculture for increased free trade - and especially for the new era after 2013, when the current agreement period expires. at the same time, it was also very important that we in europe should take our share of responsibility for producing quality food - not just for european consumers, but for the whole world, and especially for the growing part of the world that is in demand for food. the milk sector was the area where we really had to test whether we in europe were ready to adjust to increased production. in this connection, i think it has been disappointing to be part of the debate on whether we should start the so-called soft landing and give milk producers where they wanted the opportunity to increase milk production. it has been a signal to me that we in europe are not very ready for the change that tomorrow and especially the period after 2013 will require of us. as regards simplification and de-bureaucratisation - making it easier to be a farmer - we must admit that it is not easy to find clear or many examples of where we have de-bureaucratised or simplified. the whole problem of cross-compliance, where there are quite large differences between member states today, is an area where i think we should clearly be doing better. most importantly, i believe that this review of the cap should provide a much clearer indication of the direction we want agriculture to take when the agreement period expires in 2013. the good element is rural policy, and here it is of course important that the modulated funds remain in rural areas so that they can really benefit. finally, i would have liked very much - and i think it would have been good for european agriculture - if parliament had taken a closer look at the proposal which the commission had put forward a long time ago.
the commission is not mr president, commissioner fischer-boel, mr barnier, and other members of the house! the commission has put forward a very good proposal to introduce a school fruit scheme to reverse the sad trend of increasing overweight among european schoolchildren. that is a proposal which i very much welcome! the world health organization recommends that children eat 400 grams of fruit and vegetables a day. unfortunately, not many children do. in the eu, 22 million children are overweight and about 5 million children are severely obese. and the worst part is that the number is increasing by 400,000 children a year. a high intake of fruits and vegetables reduces the risk of a wide range of diseases and prevents obesity and severe obesity. eating habits are established in childhood, and this suggests that children who learn to eat a lot of fruits and vegetables continue to do so as adults. early intervention is therefore crucial if we are to succeed in influencing the eating habits of our children and young people. being overweight increases the risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, high blood pressure, and certain cancers. these diseases are a growing threat to public health in the eu and the cost of treatment is a huge burden on member states' health budgets. the commission refers to its impact assessment system, which has produced two studies highlighting the link between health expenditure and an inadequate intake of fruit and vegetables. the expenditure on a school fruit scheme must be seen in this context - and thus the scheme actually represents a saving for the health budgets of the member states. the scheme has thus had a positive impact on the european economy as well as on public health. until we reach the target of 400 g of fruit per day for children, the more fruit children and young people eat, the greater the savings. thus, prevention is cheaper than treatment. as rapporteur, i have proposed to quadruple the amount to be allocated to the community budget. unfortunately, the commission's original proposal of eur 90 million is only enough to provide one piece of fruit a week for 30 weeks to children aged 6 to 10. this is far from enough if the scheme is to have any visible effect on the eating habits of children. a piece of fruit once a week is not enough to change someone's eating habits or to have an effect on public health. ideally, every child should have a piece of fruit every day, every day of the school year. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. a majority in the committee on agriculture decided to allocate eur 500 million and to abandon national co-financing. i disagree. i hope that we can correct this today during the vote, since i have re-proposed on behalf of my group the allocation of eur 360 million. it will then have to be supplemented by the contributions of the member states and will thus amount to a sum considerably larger than the eur 500 million. the majority of the committee on agriculture also agreed that only fruit and vegetables from eu countries should be distributed under the scheme. i think that is too protectionist and it will also make the system very bureaucratic. it is therefore necessary that the member states decide, on the basis of the list drawn up by the commission, which fruit may be distributed and which fruit is included in the scheme.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision. i am opposed to agricultural aid and any extension of it, but when it comes to improving the health of our children, i think we have to go quite far. in fact, all disease control organizations have clearly recommended the introduction of school fruit schemes. even small amounts of fruit are shown to make a difference in health. that is why i wholeheartedly support the commission's proposal. but i think it is important that the focus should be on fruit and health. that is why i am opposed to the proposal by the committee on agriculture that fruit should only come from the eu. it's all wrong. i think it is the health of the children and not the economy of agriculture that should be the focus.
president of the council. - mr president, i would like to say a few words to express my views on the conclusions of this debate, which was extremely enthusiastic and consensual. in general terms, i think it is even similar to the very original initiative of niels busk or esther de lange. the debate shows almost unanimous support for the programme proposed by the european commission to encourage young europeans to eat more fruit and vegetables. i would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the council of ministers shares this commitment and we will try to reach a consensus on the basis of the position you will take with the council in general. i shall simply return to four points which i consider important in your remarks. first, the question of the budget for this operation. the willingness shown by parliament is a good indication of your commitment to this initiative, and i am pleased about that. i will report this proposal to the council and i agree with mariann fischer boel that the 90 million mentioned in her proposal is not, she said, set in stone. secondly, the main concern we all have is to give dietary fruit and to provide young people with a supply of healthy products, without added sugar; that's a second point i'd like to make. a third point concerns the promotion of local products to promote the quality of community products. i would also add, in reference to the concern expressed earlier by mr casaca about the outermost regions, that there are products on the community market which come from these outermost regions - which are an integral part of our european union - and which are of high quality. this is also the direction of your deliberations, and this concern is also supported by the council of ministers. finally, it is also in line with the council's position, which you mentioned: for this type of action, we need a community framework, which is what you are being offered; but we must also leave the member states the flexibility necessary to implement this programme as closely as possible to local authorities, associations and citizens. in conclusion to these four points, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say again that this one-off initiative is, of course, limited in terms of budget, but that it is an emblematic initiative of a concrete and active europe, of a europe which takes account of the new challenges facing our society and above all, ladies and gentlemen, of a europe which will be invited to the schools and will thus have the opportunity to speak and to make a positive appeal to the young people of europe. i think that the image we all give through this initiative of the commission is that of a concrete and citizen-led europe. this is what the citizens of europe expect.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank you for the overwhelming support for this important proposal. let me say to mr titford and ms goudin that to say that this proposal is propaganda is pure nonsense. (applause) this was meant – as many of you have mentioned – to give good eating habits to our school children. i am quite sure that if we manage it in a clever way, building on the experiences that we have already had from the irish ‘food dudes’ programme, we can do quite a lot. then in 2012 we can see whether we can improve the system further. i completely agree with ms salinas garcía that we can use this in an educational way, not only to educate kids to eat more fruit and vegetables but also to try to explain where the fruit and vegetables come from, how important it is, etc. i am looking forward, together with michel barnier, to finding the right balance in the council as well to the benefit to the health of our young people.
the commission is not - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank you for the many positive comments and i would also like to thank you for the very good cooperation with you, commissioner. it is a matter of course, since we always work well with you and your cabinet! i would also like to thank you, mr minister. it has been a great pleasure to work with you and the french presidency, particularly because you have taken the time to really discuss the issues. the presidency does not always have time for this. i would also remind you that all the speeches in this chamber called for more money to be spent than the 90 million euro. i would remind you of this on the simple grounds that if more money is not spent, this system will become a huge administrative machine without much fruit to be shared. we cannot know that if we really want to make an effort to change the eating habits of children and young people, which unfortunately is very much needed.
in writing. - the june movement voted in favour of the report as a whole, despite the fact that we are opposed to agricultural aid in principle. we believe it's important to give children healthier eating habits. we are against community origin of fruit, however, because it is an indirect support for european farmers. finally, we want the fruit given to the children to be organic.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president i would like to quote keynes today, as others have done. it's rarely seemed more appropriate. i quote in english: "speculators may do no harm as bubbles on a steady stream of enterprise. but the position is serious when enterprise becomes the bubble on a whirlpool of speculation. when the capital development of a country becomes a by-product of the activities of a casino, the job is likely to be ill-done. the commission's proposal for a solution to the financial crisis is a hot potato. the emu structure is not a bulwark against general crisis - and certainly not financial crisis. the four freedoms and the narrow stability pact do not make things easier - on the contrary! the institutional framework for the economy and economic policy needs to be re-formulated. it's fine to suggest that you want to make a new financial architecture, but the building is not so well described that it would have a chance at architecture school - or economics school. i'm sure it's something to do with the crisis. naturally, the first thing that has been concentrated on is to deal with the liquidity crisis, to secure the supply of lubricant. here the different countries have chosen slightly different models, that's the way it is. but what does the commission really mean when it says that the eu must (and i quote from the programme): 'ensure that the restructuring of the banking sector is done in a way which will ensure fair and healthy competition in the sector for the future'. does this mean that the public sector must then raise responsible capital? is that what this phrase means? i would also like to ask the commission whether new credit rating agencies should be set up. many of the old ones have proved to be totally untrustworthy. or what does the commission mean when it speaks of the 'structural reform agenda' - does it mean labour market reforms without security, 'flexicurity' without 'security'? is it the view that increased job insecurity should be the contribution of the wage earners? it is not clear at all whether the commission considers that wages should be a decisive competitive parameter. is the cost of wages the only thing that matters? we must also look at wages in relation to their effect on demand. finally, on behalf of my colleague mr blokland, first vice-chairman of the committee on the environment, i have a question on the environment: when will the commission publish the national emission ceilings?
madam president, we are in the middle of a vicious circle now in the sense that, when the economy becomes negative, financial institutions get further losses on their balance sheets, which means that there will be further strains on the interbank market, which leads to further credit constraints, which leads to further negative growth. people will not be capable of understanding how we can use taxpayers’ money to save the banks and not use taxpayers’ money to create some jobs. that is why i would focus today on how to reassess this credit crunch, but also – and first and foremost – the recession we are in the middle of. as i see it we are at risk of negative growth next year in the european union as such of -1% – not only -0.3%, but -1%. if we take that prospect – which is not unlikely – our aim and our duty are to avoid that recession. minus one percent next year will correspond to a growth and stability pact of more than -3%. my point is that we cannot save the growth and stability pact by doing nothing. it will get worse if we do not do something. now, what something can we do? i know it is not easy. i know there is disagreement among governments, but i think that the commission has a duty to try to bring all the governments together to get one easy job done. i know that in berlin you are saying ‘no thanks’ to coordination because that means further expenditure from the german government to other governments. i would say that you do not need to do that, dear friends in berlin. we can do things together without having further expenditure from one government to others. it is about understanding that by investing at the same moment in time in the next couple of years you will have added value. the international monetary fund (imf) has made one simple calculation. imagine that the g20, all of them, invest just 1% more of their gdp in jobs. if they do that simultaneously then there will be an extra percent for free. so what i am saying is that every government in europe can make it, if they do it together. if every government in euorpe were to invest 1% of their gdp to counteract the recession, were to do it intelligently, and were to do it socially for more and better jobs, caring for the most vulnerable groups, then they will have an extra percent for free. that is why i simply must appeal to the commission, vice-president wallström, asking you to present one simple scenario showing what would happen if all our major governments were to do what i am saying here, showing that all of them will be better off, not only in jobs, but also in public budgets and also in the growth and stability pact. it is a simple exercise. if you do not have the instruments, i have. i would willingly advise you how to do it. (applause)
i have to say, madam president, i would like to follow up this question by clarifying whether, if there is any doubt as to whether a member state is complying with the international conventions in connection with an operation in the name of the eu, it is possible to exclude that member state from participation. i think that in some cases it might be necessary and quite important to have a clarification.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of animals during transport. the problems arise when animals are used for commercial purposes. it is therefore the responsibility and the risk of farmers and their businesses to treat animals properly so that they do not get sick. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined.
mr president, i would like to thank you. our discussions can sometimes get a little abstract, so i think we should start by reminding each other what we are really discussing. it's about the taxpayers' money. it is the money of the european citizens. money that goes to quite sensible - and sometimes not so sensible - purposes. the common denominator of all the money spent in the name of the european union is that it must be spent in a responsible and decent way. the common denominator in all the money spent is that there are rules to be followed, and if those rules are not followed, there are penalties. unfortunately, we have to note that once again this year the court of auditors has not been able to approve the implementation of the eu budget, that is to say, to approve the accounts. that is, of course, deeply, deeply unacceptable. the question is who to criticize, where to point the finger. there is no doubt that the biggest problem lies within the member states. unfortunately, there is no doubt that when you receive a bag of money from the eu in the member states, you are not as likely to subject that money to as much control and as many rules as if it were national money. it is clear from the treaty that it is the european commission which is responsible - that is, it is the european commission which is responsible for putting pressure on the member states to introduce the necessary controls. it is regrettable that the commission has not lived up to its own objective of having us approve the accounts by the end of this period. we're not gonna make it. i would also point out, however, that considerable progress has been made, partly as a result of pressure from the european parliament. last year an action plan was introduced with a whole series of very concrete measures, the effects of which we shall see - not in this year's report, of course, but in next year's report. we can rejoice in that. we will of course be working very specifically in this year's procedure in relation to those areas where there are still problems. it is particularly worrying that in the agricultural sector, where there have been positive trends, we have unfortunately seen a somewhat downward evaluation this year because the rural funds are not properly managed.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which is being presented by the european commission. the danish social democratic delegation in the european parliament voted against the resolution on the situation in the beekeeping sector. we believe that the decision is characterized by protectionism and an attempt to establish additional support schemes for eu farmers. we believe that bee mortality is a major problem which must be tackled at european level, but with the right mechanisms. this includes further research and focus on protecting our ecosystem, including a reduction in the use of pesticides.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, we now have 17 million unemployed in europe. unless we do something, we will have 21 million unemployed in europe within a year, and 25 million unemployed at the beginning of 2010. on 14 november, this group said that we need to have a clear goal, and the socialist and social democrat party said the same at the weekend. our goal must be not to allow the employment level to go down. our financial stimulus will be defined by this clear goal of keeping people in work. we will lose jobs but we will create new ones to keep people in work. what i find missing here in the commission's programme is not direction, but ambition and true coordination. i know it is difficult. please do not say that simply combining efforts – which is what governments always have done – is coordination, because it is not. i share your ambition of coordination, but let us join forces – this parliament and you and the council president – to ask the governments for once to understand how much added value you can get by doing things in a coordinated way. you and i know that you will get double the effect in your member states. my second point is this. if you do that, please could you, and the president of the council, put this question to your colleagues, the heads of state and government in the council: if we want to ensure the employment level, how much do we need? i have done the macro-economic calculations, which show that we need to invest – as the spanish government did – one percent of gdp, not only next year, but also in 2010 and in 2011. otherwise we will not keep to this level. so how do we do this? i would propose the following: that you, commission president, make a list of priorities defined by our smart green growth strategy and the lisbon goals, where the 27 member states say that they agree with you and with the council on this list. then show germany, france, italy – all of us – how much added value we are gaining by doing things together. then draw up a time schedule saying, for example: if you make your decisions before christmas, we will meet again in february, before the spring, to evaluate what the effects have been. we will then be ready in the spring to make the second package and in the autumn to make the third package as part of a long-term strategy of ensuring our goals. i am not saying that it will be easy. i am saying that i share your ambition but i am not seeing the goals being put into practice. let us join forces and do it.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. madam president, the picture is that a rotten compromise is being made with ireland to get them to join the treaty of lisbon. i have seen everything in this house, from manipulation to thinly veiled threats, such as 'who do you think is losing a commissioner when we have to follow the words of the treaty of nice that there should be fewer commissioners than there are countries?' i have heard prominent opinion makers speak of kicking ireland out, even from a newspaper editor in my own country. the conference of presidents decided not to put the resolution on ireland and the treaty of lisbon, which was drawn up in the afco committee, to the debate and vote in plenary. nevertheless, at a meeting on monday, the afco committee concluded that this very resolution would be the basis for the official position of the president and thus of parliament. but parliament cannot have a common position on this question. when the above-mentioned resolution was voted on, 16 voted in favour, 6 against. this, combined with the absence of debate in the house, provides a very thin basis for drawing up a common position. it is indecent that democracy seems to be undermined in this parliament, where we are happy to raise a moralizing finger at countries without democracy and honour champions of democracy with a so-called sakharov prize. the road to a democratic europe is not one of rotten compromises, half-hearted promises and indecent threats. the way forward is a fair and open debate. in the few countries where the people have been heard, the response has been a clear rejection of both the constitution and the treaty. - no, not in france, the netherlands or ireland. what does it take for this parliament to wake up and see that we are completely out of step with our constituents? where are all those men who are breathing their last breaths and threatening ireland and the czech republic? do they not have the courage to go to the electorate and let them be the judges of the vision of europe?
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to reply to mrs berès by first of all giving a brief retrospective of what has happened over the past year. the crisis that began in the united states continues, as you both know, to have consequences. the situation in the financial sector appears to have stabilised and is showing signs of improvement, but the challenge now is to limit as far as possible the effects of the financial crisis on the real economy and activity. the forecasts published by the commission at the beginning of november predict a significant decline in economic growth in the european union, which is expected to reach 1.4% in 2008, compared with 2.9% in 2007. in 2009, according to the commission, activity in the european union is expected to stagnate at an annual average growth rate of 0.2% of gdp. growth is expected to pick up very slowly during the year and to reach an annual average of 1.1% in 2010. this is the situation, as we can foresee it in the weeks and months ahead. about the financial situation. if it is relatively better oriented than a few months ago, this is partly due to the determined action of the states, but also of the central banks, including the european central bank, of which my colleague and friend jean-pierre jouyet has spoken enough that i will not go back on it. the euro area countries, meeting at heads of state level for the first time, agreed on 12 october on a concerted action plan, the principles of which were approved by the european council on 15 and 16 october. all the member states have now adopted national measures in accordance with the principles of this plan, in particular, as you know, through guarantee mechanisms for the financing of banks and systems for recapitalising them. in addition, the ecb has made significant efforts to provide liquidity to the market by diversifying its tender procedures and broadening the scope of its collateral. i believe that we have shown solidarity in supporting member states in financial difficulties. we did this for the benefit of one member state, hungary, at the beginning of november, it had to be done. we also agreed on the need to raise the ceiling on loans that the union can provide to this end to eur 25 billion instead of eur 12 billion. i believe that today, as you have said, mrs berès, is the time to revive our economy. member states and the union must act together and contribute to a wider global response. as regards the recovery of the european economy, the commission took the initiative by publishing a communication on 26 november, a european plan for economic recovery in favour of growth and employment. the council warmly welcomes this communication and i am glad to note that you, mrs berès, have described this as a step in the right direction. in order to fully resolve the crisis, and above all to learn from it, we need to analyse what has happened. the first financial turbulence, as you know, was in the subprime market, at the u.s. level. they then gradually spread, revealing serious malfunctions in our financial systems. from a macroeconomic point of view, the crisis also reflects the implications of internal imbalances in household debt or external imbalances, notably the us current account deficit. but above all, and i insist, it is a crisis in the regulation of financial markets which reveals the malfunctioning of certain aspects of our regulatory and supervisory frameworks. many of these aspects are already being addressed in the framework of the roadmaps and the work carried out by the ecofin council during the french presidency. but beyond the emergency measures taken at community level to restore confidence in the financial markets and protect savers' deposits, to support financial institutions or to provide assistance to member states in difficulty, the fundamental reforms you are advocating, mrs berès, are, i believe, now under way. i would like to welcome the agreement reached in the council on four draft directives, which are very important for strengthening the stability of the financial sector, the protection of individuals or further deepening the internal market: the directive on the capital requirements of banks, the directive on deposit guarantee schemes, solvency 2 and the directive on ucits. work is also under way on the supervision of financial institutions, which are not currently subject to supervision. work on the european regulation on credit rating agencies has begun and is expected to be completed in spring 2009. i have no doubt that parliament shares our determination to see these texts adopted as soon as possible. the french presidency of the council also committed itself to launching longer-term work on procyclicality of financial regulation with a view to a review of the prudential and accounting framework and on incentives within the financial sector by working on the very important issue of the remuneration of executives and market operators. concerning supervision in europe, concrete progress has already been made in recent months: greater convergence between the practices of national supervisors so that each applies the texts in an equivalent way; strengthening the supervision of cross-border groups through the establishment of colleges of supervisors; the more efficient functioning of the committees of european supervisors through the implementation of qualified majority voting within them to improve decision-making processes. however, i believe that more profound developments are needed and we therefore expect much from the work of the high-level group chaired by jacques de larosière, which will also deal with the field of supervision, in particular the question of the supervision of investment funds. in any event, all these achievements and projects seem to me to be capable of maintaining the european union's leading role in international work in response to the financial crisis. the union has certainly played a leading role in the international mobilization to reform the global financial architecture in depth, in particular to strengthen the capacity of international financial institutions to prevent the recurrence of crisis factors. the crisis has made it very clear that these problems, which are of a global nature, must be solved at a global level. in this context, the french presidency took the initiative of proposing to the united states the convening of an international summit including the main emerging countries to define the principles and the first actions to be implemented with a view to rebuilding the international financial architecture. with this in mind, it submitted proposals to the member states which were discussed in the ecofin council and then adopted by the heads of state or government. europe, and i think this is very important, was thus able to speak with one voice at the meeting in washington on 15 november. before the g20 meeting, the economic council played its role in defining the european union's common message on the international financial architecture. at its meeting on 4 november, it considered all the relevant issues with a view to agreeing on a european response to the crisis and its proposal was subsequently endorsed by the heads of state and government at their informal meeting on 7 november. i believe that this european unity has made it possible to achieve very significant progress, particularly on the part of our american and emerging partners, both in terms of supporting global growth, but also in terms of regulating and supervising global financial markets, the principle of which has been extended to all actors, all markets, all jurisdictions. i am convinced that this summit is the starting point for a review of the instruments and means of the international financial institutions. the imf must have the full range of instruments to support member countries in a flexible and rapid manner. the world bank must be mobilised to provide the necessary financing to emerging and poor countries which could thus face the scarcity and rise in the price of market resources. moreover, if international financial institutions are to have the means to deal with crises, they must play a key role in preventing them. the imf, in particular, in conjunction with the financial stability forum, needs to be able to identify the accumulation of risks and bubbles in the financial system and advocate economic policies in response. the council therefore fully supports the declaration made public on 15 november by the heads of state or government of the g20 countries. everything is already in order to draw up common european positions, to implement this washington declaration within the time-frame set for the next international deadlines. in conclusion, mr president, i think that two important messages can be taken from the report, beyond the progress made on the substance. europe, after very rapid preparation, spoke with one voice at the washington summit. europe must therefore remain a driving force in the thinking that is undertaken to reform the international financial architecture. our internal reflection and the reforms we will continue to adopt must continue to feed this process which is only at its beginning.
member of the commission. - mr president, mr novelli, mr jouyet, mrs berès, ladies and gentlemen, less than a month ago in strasbourg we discussed the results and conclusions of the washington meeting. today mrs berès asks both the council and the commission what steps should be taken to implement the conclusions, who should take them and what each european institution will do to take them. i must tell you that i absolutely agree that it is essential to develop those decisions, like the decisions taken since september 2007 in the ecofin council and the european council, in a rapid manner, respecting the role of all community institutions and using all community institutions to build consensus, so that europe has a position on all the issues needed to better regulate and to solve the problems of the financial system, and so that the european union remains able to lead the responses, on a global scale, in the framework of the next meetings that follow the washington meeting. the commission is working from that point of view, of course: on the one hand, by participating in the work of the rosière group; on the other, by developing our initiatives. the commission had the opportunity just yesterday to update these announcements at the ecofin council. and the commission will certainly be involved in exercising its powers, in cooperation with the council and parliament, to reach the necessary agreements as soon as possible. it is very important to coordinate the european union's action, the european union's positions, on the financial issue, because we are going to global coordination and europeans cannot go to global coordination with different positions; we have to go with a single and formally agreed position within the european union. with regard to the economic recovery and resumption plan, which was approved and discussed yesterday by the ecofin council, the ministers agreed yesterday with the commission's view that, given the economic situation, given the recession in the united states, japan, the euro area and some important economies of the european union outside the euro area, fiscal stimulus is essential. monetary policy must help to support demand, but it cannot bear all the responsibility on its own, especially in the present situation of financial markets and credit circuits. fiscal and budgetary policy must play a stimulating role. the commission has put forward what it considers to be the necessary and possible stimulus in a situation such as the present one. we have specified the extent to which we are going to contribute with european resources and instruments, both through the european budget and through the action of the european investment bank and also the ebrd. i have to tell you that unfortunately yesterday there was no positive reaction from a few members of ecofin to our proposal, both to the council and to parliament, to allow flexibility in the use of unspent resources without changing the overall ceiling of the european budget, in order to finance investments in infrastructure and in the fight against climate change at european level, worth 5 000 million euros. unfortunately, the opinion did not have enough unanimous support; let us hope that it will go ahead, in any case. and in addition to the european effort (european budget plus european investment bank, for which, by the way, the ministers did agree to increase capital, as the commission had proposed, before the end of 2009), we asked the member states for an effort equivalent to eur 170 billion in 2009, through the demand-stimulating measures they deem most appropriate in the light of their situation. that proposal takes account of the responsibility of the member states, who have the budget to finance fiscal recovery policies, and it takes account of the fact that not all member states have the same margin of manoeuvre: we cannot ask hungary or latvia, at this moment, to contribute as much as germany or the netherlands. clearly, that is not the commission's position. and since all the member states must benefit from the stimulus and the reactivation, but not all can contribute with the same intensity, because their starting situation is different, coordination becomes essential. coordinating the actions, one plus one equals three. if there is no coordination, one plus one can give a negative result. and that is a clear case about the urgency of coordination. some have no room for manoeuvre, others must decide whether to use what they have and if we do not maximise the energies and possibilities of all, we will all lose: that is the message the commission sent yesterday to the ecofin ministers. three very specific points: firstly, in the previous debate a member of this parliament said that the stability pact was no longer in force. i repeat that, as i have said to this parliament on many occasions, the stability pact is fully in force, and it is fully in force because in 2005 we revised it and introduced the necessary flexibility to make the stability pact useful in a situation like the present one; it is in force because we revised it in 2005, and there is no need to reinvent it or change it. what is needed is to apply it and respect it, but respect it within the limits and respect it also in the necessary flexibility of budgetary policy at times like the present. secondly, mrs berès was referring to european debt securities. there are some important countries that clearly reject that possibility, deny that possibility. issuing of national debt securities in common? there are some important countries in the euro area that reject that possibility. but we have a third possibility, which has received unanimous support and which we are going to use: the possibility of the european investment bank financing more and more precisely those investments and actions which are priorities to sustain demand and to maximise the impact of that effort at european level at a time like the present. finally, i fully agree with your call for quality jobs. when the commission has included in the recovery plan not only a fiscal effort but also ten priorities for smart investment actions, what we want is more growth, more sustainability and better quality employment than what some short-term measures can give, which are temporary - which is one of the requirements of the stimulus - but which do not have the other two characteristics necessary for it to be a quality fiscal effort: that they are suitable to add, to contribute to demand in the short term, but also to increase the chances of our economies in the economic recovery that will undoubtedly come.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, first of all i would like to confirm to commissioner almunia that ‘one plus one’ is not two but three if we do it together. i will try to explain this to my little grandson and he will understand, as he is becoming a good european. i am not going to go into coordination because i think my good colleague mrs berès has underlined the issue, as you did yourself. i would just like to say one thing on that – this is also directed to the presidency of the european union and the council – which is that there is a great danger that our member states have not yet really understood the magnitude of the need for financial investments. let me just give an illustration: if our aim is to maintain the present employment level in the european union, we need to invest 1% more of gdp not only in 2009 but also an extra percentage in 2010 and an extra percentage in 2011. this is documented by our macroeconomic calculations covering the whole of the european union. my hope is that what we do before christmas will be a beginning – and i know that the french presidency shares this ambition. therefore, please make a timeline which says: let us evaluate the effects before spring next year and before the spring council. let us be ready before the spring council to create new financial stimuli. because i fear that the commission’s present prognosis – and it has done it as well as it can – will be supplemented by a new one which will show us that the job to be done is even more demanding. finally, i want to talk about regulation. i should like to thank the presidency very much for saying this is a regulatory crisis. i agree. that is why i am so disappointed by the information i got yesterday in the committee on economic and monetary affairs under the leadership of mrs berès. we have unanimously here in parliament agreed on a report saying that due to this regulatory crisis we must have new regulations empowering all financial actors without exception – including hedge funds and private equity. yesterday i got a message from commissioner mccreevy saying: ‘i hereby invite all actors to a new consultation on hedge funds’. two years ago we had the last consultations on hedge funds, which only concentrated on those guys in the city of london. we now have a new consultation two years later. we do not need more consultations. we need regulations. we know exactly what the problem is. then mr mccreevy said yesterday: ‘by the way, i do not intend to do anything about private equity’. however, he is asking the lobby organisations for private equity whether they would be so kind as to ask those who are not covered by the code of conduct to be covered. (interruption from another member) chers amis, c’est moi maintenant! what i am trying to say is: please i need your help – and i am calling on you commissioner almunia – i want you to understand that people will simply not understand that we, the european union, are not capable of fulfilling our duty to regulate the financial market in a comprehensive way, so that we can be sure that this situation will not occur again; and that we can finance this expansion exactly as commissioner almunia described. i would really ask you for an answer before christmas so i can tell my little grandson ‘let us go for it!’
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am very pleased to follow the renewed interest in green growth in the wake of the financial crisis. but like all new political phenomena, the new green wave also requires a healthy dose of skepticism. the idea might be that this is more about providing an alibi for subsidising an old-fashioned heavy industry than about a genuine desire to pursue climate policy. if one were a little too forward, one could say that this is like trying to re-introduce an old-fashioned protectionist industrial policy, whereby the big countries in the eu, whose economies depend on the car industry, should be allowed to provide state aid. but i'm not that bold! so i welcome the new green line and say that we must be truly visionary. the aim is to shift european car production to electric cars that can run on renewable energy. one fifth of all co2 emissions in europe comes from the transport sector. if we focus our efforts on this particular area, we can do something about co2 emissions and reduce noise and particulate pollution.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it has been exciting to be involved in negotiating the climate package in place, first in committee and then in the trilogue negotiations, where i am participating as shadow rapporteur on the burden-sharing directive. we in parliament have shown a great capacity to find compromises and to come up with ideas that could improve the commission's approach. we know that if we want a serious successor to the kyoto agreement, we must come to copenhagen with an ambitious outline. we are now waiting for the council. i would like to mention a few key problems. it is important that the council understands that if member states want flexibility, there must be a guarantee of the achievement of the objectives through reporting and consequences if they are not met. empty promises will not slow global warming. it must also be clear that we cannot buy into the whole reduction outside the eu, but that the bulk of our efforts must be made in europe. everything else is not serious and credible if we want to get an international climate agreement in place, because it can be interpreted in the way that we have already done our part and that we cannot do more. the motivation for energy technology innovation in europe must not be lacking either, and with this package we must ensure a development towards a future in which we base our energy consumption on forms of energy that are co2-neutral. last year, eu leaders took the lead on climate change - and they are committed. parliament is ready. now the council must show a willingness to deliver, so that we can all rejoice in the climate package as the best christmas present of the year.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to let you do this. my fellow members! let me begin by thanking our rapporteur, claude turmes, for his impressive work on the renewable energy directive. i would also like to thank the various secretariats, advisers and assistants of parliament. unfortunately, we were not able to conclude the negotiations with the council last night, although parliament was prepared to reach an agreement and to make concessions. but as we know, it takes two willing parties to get a result. as rapporteur for the socialist group on the directive, i had looked forward to standing here this morning with a finished package. a package we had our prints cleaned off. this directive will revolutionize european energy policy. with this, we can see the end of more than 100 years of dependence on oil and gas. an addiction that has damaged our climate, created wars, unrest and inequality all over the world. that is why it is crucial that we now put the last sentence in the agreement. we have already ensured that clear and strong sustainability criteria are set for the production of biofuels for our cars. we have ensured that the large energy consumption in buildings will be limited and we have ensured that wind turbine and solar cell manufacturers are guaranteed that europe will now invest in renewable energy. the final nail in the coffin is that we maintain all the binding targets until 2020. the problem is that one member state is blocking an agreement. i therefore urge the council to reconsider its position so that europe can have the energy agreement we so badly need.
on monday evening, the major political groups in the european parliament reached a compromise with the council of ministers on co2 emissions requirements for passenger cars, which means that the car industry can continue to be a piggy bank until 2019. the eu has joined the un climate targets, which require industrialised countries to reduce co2 emissions by 25-40% by 2020. the agreement on co2 emissions from cars is a slap in the face for the car industry and it only confirms that the eu's climate pledges are worth no more than the paper they are written on. every time the eu has to take a concrete step to live up to its own promises and objectives, there are all kinds of bad excuses for not doing so. it is incredible that a majority in the european parliament is prepared to approve the continuation of this filth.
mr president, i would like to thank you. these days we are celebrating this year's sakharov prize. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which will be published in the official journal of the european union. in 2004, she was released after ten years in prison, but last friday, december 5, she was sentenced to another ten years in prison. the reason is that she continues to work to ensure the fundamental rights of the kurds in turkey, such as the right to speak their own language. unfortunately, this shows that the human rights situation in turkey is not improving but is deteriorating. i would therefore urge all members to express their solidarity with our former sakharov prize winner, leyla zana, and i would urge the president to put forward a proposal on how the european parliament can protest to the turkish authorities.
in writing. i am happy to be a member of a political group, the social democrats, where we do not compromise on the safety and health of workers. the belief that there is increased competition for poor working conditions and an internal competition between member states for the longest working hours is completely wrong and belongs to another age. i am not opposed to the social partners agreeing on longer working hours, which can have a reference period of up to one year with a maximum of 48 hours per week on average, but i am opposed to employers being able to take in workers individually and thus obtain various exemptions. what is it going to take for the uk to enter into serious discussions and phase out their opt-outs and thereby improve the conditions for millions of workers in the uk? i hope that on wednesday the european parliament will say that in the future europe must 'work smarter and not harder' in response to the challenges of the future.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. first of all, a big thank you to our rapporteur for the toy directive, mrs thyssen. marianne, you've done a very efficient, professional and effective job. i would also like to thank the council and our little girl from the french presidency: well done! and also to the commission for flexibility to find common ground in a very short time for the text we have before us today. the whole process of dealing with the toy directive has been educational, both for me and for my colleagues here tonight. from wanting to ban all chemicals, all fragrances, we've all learned that everything isn't black and white. i've become more aware of what's possible and what, on the contrary, makes the production of toys impossible. that is why my starting point in working on this directive has been that we must be strict, but of course fair. i think that the proposal before us is quite, quite reasonable. it is a significant improvement on the current rules on toys, which date back to 1988. i think we have reached compromises with the council and the commission which make us satisfied and, as the most important thing, make sure that children can still play and manufacturers can still make toys, but safe toys. of the significant improvements with the new proposal, i would point out that we now have clear rules on the use of chemicals and fragrances. it is important that we have clarified which substances can be used, as these can be hormone disruptors, carcinogens or allergens. but we should not ban all drugs when they are not necessary for health reasons, because that would prevent the production of children's bicycles, for example. yes, you heard right! if we prohibited all chemicals, we would no longer be able to put tyres on children's bicycles, and we certainly do not want to do that. so i repeat, we must be strict but fair. i would also like to highlight our trilogue negotiations. there we could not agree on the legal basis for noise, books and third party certification. i therefore very much expect, commissioner, that the very clear statements made by the commission on these three issues will be followed closely and we in parliament will follow up on that. i hope and look forward to a clear majority on thursday.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the toy proposal as it stands today means that in two to four years' time european children will be able to play with much safer toys than they do today. that is good, indeed it is necessary, and that is why i fully support the proposal. it is necessary and it is good that we get improved security compared to what it is today. but having said that, i also think that we're actually missing our chance to not only do good, but to do really good for our children. the problems raised in the proposal have been raised by several speakers, so i shall concentrate on one point only, namely the problem of fragrances. i think perfume or fragrances in toys are problematic. i know that our work has meant that we have extended the list of prohibited fragrances, but i do not think that extending the list is enough. i mean, we need a real ban. if you have a nut allergy, you can stop eating nuts. if you're allergic to nickel, you can stop using nickel products, but if you become allergic to perfumes, fragrances, you'll have a problem going around in public spaces because you can't stop other people from using them. that is why i think we should have been more strict here and made a real ban on perfumes for the sake of our children. the perfumes are not good for the children or for the toys. if you want to learn about how flowers and fruits smell, it's better to buy the natural stuff. but that said, the proposal is of course a marked improvement on the situation today. and it is very good that we are also tightening up the rules on market surveillance and the responsibility of the member states. i therefore think that we should be sending a very clear signal to the member states today. it cannot be stressed enough: they have responsibilities and they must monitor the market better than they do today. we need them to spend more money and more resources to ensure market surveillance so that the new strong rules can also be fully effective.
mr president, i should like to say to president sarkozy: "être proactif dans la politique, c’est l’exercice le plus difficile." you and i both know that, president. as you said yourself, europe is about compromises but also ensuring dynamics. that is my point. i think you took europe as far as you could go and as far as you could get the 27 prime ministers and heads of state, but please do not oversell the results. that goes especially for president barroso. do not oversell the result. if you do so, this will backfire against ordinary people’s trust in the european union. we have an economic crisis at the moment and it is not over. as you said, it is not over. please do not tell people that the economic stimulus package corresponds to 1.5% of gdp. it is not. if we take away the credit guarantees from this calculation for the moment and look at the real investments and the real demand, we are down to an average of about 0.6% of the european union’s gdp. yes we are, mr barroso. the economic calculations from brueghel and from copenhagen university confirm it. so be careful here. the only two countries – and britain has been criticised by germany – that are reaching 1% of gdp in real economic stimulus are gordon brown’s country and zapatero’s country. france is coming close. but the real difficulty for the time being lies in berlin. i simply do not understand how angela merkel, the german chancellor, can tell people that what they are doing for employment in europe at the present time is sufficient. that is not the case. mr president, i disagree with what graham watson said. you should not just relax. you should keep your energy because we need another stimulus package and we will need it quite soon, already by the spring. i hope that you will be active on 2 april in london and certainly also at the spring summit. as you said yourself, bringing europe closer to people is about ensuring jobs for people.
mr president, while the tanks were threatening tbilisi and the french presidency was dragging europe into the role of peace mediator which it should never have abandoned, i read a hungarian author, sándor márai, again. it describes the causes of the calamities that twice destroyed hungary, half of europe, and eventually all of europe, and shook the world, namely nazism and stalinism. the history and its violence are now back and, naturally, the crisis in georgia, the financial crisis and its foreseeable social or political consequences are serious fundamentals. the european political will must be up to the challenge of this history and of this new violence, and we are grateful to the french presidency and to all the institutions for having dealt with the issues that threaten our stability and peace at this level. of course, the financial crisis is not solved for good, it is not over. of course, relations with the mediterranean have a new institutional framework. but there is no denying the historic shift that the climate plan is. europe is undoubtedly becoming a leader, although not everything is satisfactory. europe needs a regular and high-level political upsurge, above the right, above the left, above the extreme centre to combat threats that return with violence that we have already experienced. people who do not know their history are condemned to repeat it, says the philosopher. this crisis has reminded us that it is men who make history and not history that makes men.
mr president, i must confine myself to one point at this late hour. i am sure you are aware of the decision of the court of justice of the european communities court of first instance of 4 december to remove the iranian freedom movement from the eu's terrorist list for the third time. i would ask you to confirm that the pmoi is now no longer on the list and i would ask the presidency to respect the three decisions of the court and thus help ensure that we do not again brand the freedom movement of the iranian people as terrorists. it will not serve europe's interest in a democratic future for the iranian people.
for the pse group. thank you, mr president. 22 months ago, few people thought the eu would commit to 20% of our energy consumption coming from renewable sources by 2020. it is nothing less than the most important energy legislation in the world which we are to adopt here in the european parliament tomorrow. with it, we can finally see the end of centuries of dependence on oil and gas - an addiction that has damaged our climate and created wars, unrest and inequality all over the world. the road to this has been bumpy and full of obstacles, but when we stand here today, it is in the knowledge that we can no longer afford to stand by. we must act and with the renewable energy directive we are taking the first step towards a cleaner and better world. for our energy consumption is the cornerstone when we talk about doing something about climate change. because if we can successfully transform our energy consumption and get rid of the use of fossil fuels, then we can also succeed in doing something about climate change. the agreement we have reached with the european council is a good result from the socialist group's point of view, because we have maintained the overall binding targets, so that, regardless of how many leaps some countries have made, 20% of the eu's energy consumption in 2020 will come from green energy. we have set binding targets, such as at least 10% of energy consumption in the transport sector to be from renewable sources, and we have ensured that biofuels are produced in a responsible and sustainable way, and we have also stressed the need for social sustainability from the socialist group. we are also pleased that second generation biofuels are counted twice in the accounts, so there is an incentive to develop new energy technologies. and finally, we have secured the foundations of an industry with two million new jobs in europe and research in green energy technologies, so i take pride in that today. proud of the european parliament's action and happy that the socialist group has had a decisive influence so that we can support this law tomorrow. and thank you to all the colleagues for this exceptionally wonderful collaboration.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, the last several months of debate on the climate package have been dramatic and exciting, and i would like to thank mrs hassi and the other shadow rapporteurs for a good and open cooperation. it is good that we have reached a result, although we as a parliament could have wished it to have been more ambitious. we have been pushing for an ambitious climate package from the start to be credible in copenhagen. we have fought against giving member states the opportunity to buy into too many co2 reductions outside europe. but they got that flexibility, but they don't have to use it. flexibility mechanisms should be seen as emergency solutions and not as means to achieve objectives. we could also have wanted tougher sanctions against member states to ensure that we do not reach 2019 and have countries that are far from their targets. member states should be responsible and start planning how they will cut their greenhouse gas emissions outside the trading system immediately. they must create the necessary framework for low-carbon growth through energy efficiency improvements and more sustainable energy. the vote tomorrow marks the completion of the preparation of a european climate package, but it is only a step towards a better climate policy for the planet. the necessary effort is now distributed, the means to achieve the objectives are in place, and it is now up to the member states to deliver. it requires political will and leadership. and remember: the climate package is the starting point for the negotiations that are waiting in copenhagen, where we have to have an international agreement. finally, i would remind you that the objective of an international agreement is not the famous 20% reduction but 30% and this ambitious target is also enshrined in the agreement we are adopting tomorrow.
the ind/dem group is a party to the treaty of rome. mr president, it is a pity that the climate plan has been so watered down since the council meeting last week. now it looks like the industry's dream. on the symbolic level, one is allowed to make a mark of one's goodwill, but on the practical level, very little is done. the idea of storing co2 underground is completely absurd. co2 is pollution, whether it's in the air or underground. we cannot base our climate action on saving pollution for future generations. the present draft report is even based on a non-existent technology. uncertain forecasts say it will be developed no earlier than 2015, perhaps even as early as 2020, and furthermore, it reduces energy efficiency, contrary to the climate plan's goals. in this context, bridge technology means investing money in something that has no future, money that could be used to develop the renewable energy sector. i hope they vote against it.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to stress that the 2009 budget negotiations have been very specific, very important and difficult as never before. the main focus in this budget is on growth and jobs. this year the budget preparation has also focused on the funding of the food aid facility instrument for development countries. together we have been able to find a balanced agreement to secure this eur 1 billion. having a budget is not enough. we need to execute it properly and in timely fashion. in this respect, considering that cohesion is a key factor for stimulating economic growth, parliament has stressed the importance of effective budget implementation and the need for improvement and simplification. we agreed with that during our negotiations. the commission shares this objective and on 26 november presented proposals for accelerating implementation and simplification of management of the structural funds. last week the european council fully endorsed this approach, and i hope now that the required changes in the relevant legal acts can be agreed smoothly altogether. looking forward to the near future, we all have to recognise that we will shortly face other challenges in order to address the financial and economic crisis in europe. the recovery plan for the european economy presented by the commission includes elements which will have an impact on the community budget next year. the european council last week supported this recovery plan. the commission therefore presented a proposal to revise the multiannual financial framework in accordance with the interinstitutional agreement. this has to be approved by both parliament and the council in the coming months and i count as usual on cooperation, especially on parliament’s side. to conclude, i would like to recall that negotiation on the 2009 budget has required compromise on all sides. it has also shown that the best results can be achieved in a spirit of fair cooperation between the institutions. that would not have been possible without the constructive and responsible role of parliament throughout the whole negotiation process. i also want to stress the crucial role of the presidency tackling the member states’ position. finally, let me express my gratitude to parliament’s negotiating team, and in particular the chairman, mr borg, the rapporteurs for 2009, mrs haug, with her innovative approach this year, and mr lewandowski, and also all the political coordinators of cobu, who gave the commission and parliament a lot of help. i wish us all a positive vote tomorrow, and i wish you all a better than expected new year.
the alde group is not in favour of this. madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs, mrs haug and mr lewandowski, for a very skilful and professional approach to the budget. i would also like to thank our president, mr böge, and mrs grybauskaite, the commissioner, for being so good at finding solutions. the budget is pretty rigid. the budgetary framework is inflexible - it does not simply move money from the agricultural budget to other parts of the budget. and the commission has recently made it a practice to challenge this flexibility - to challenge this rigidity. the commission is not to be thanked for this. i think it is good that we are trying new ways and i would say that in the alde group we warmly support this budget and the solution found for the food facility, the one billion found to provide more food in the developing countries. what we are happy about is that we were able to find a solution which did not involve major cuts in other programmes. but we found the funds in the flexibility instrument and the emergency reserve. i am also pleased that the commissioner has promised to look at the structural funds programmes and that they can be simplified. that is the historic task we have in these years - to ensure that we get the necessary development in the new member states. i think this is one of the most important aspects of the eu budget. we have complained about the lack of energy measures in the budget. and now we have the twelfth hour of the debate following the financial crisis, when growth is also to be stimulated by the eu budget. we have proposed five billion for various energy initiatives. and i would like to say on behalf of my group that we are prepared to find a solution to this - prepared to find the funding and also to work quickly, but when we are going to look at how the individual programmes are put together - more money for the tens, more money for the research programmes and more money for the cip, that is to say programmes that we know well - we must also take our time, so that we do it in a good and sensible way. but i look forward to good cooperation on these matters and i would like to thank the commission for the initiative. it may be a little sad that it has come so late, but we want to work constructively on these things.
mr president, one of the most basic tasks of a parliament is to control the economy. this of course requires that parliament be able to see through the various items. and that is why it is completely unacceptable that the council continues to maintain its closed position vis-à-vis parliament. we have heard today how the french presidency has failed to respond to any request from the rapporteur responsible for the 2009 budget of this parliament. and as rapporteur for cocobu's 2007 discharge to the council, i can add that the council is also not prepared to respond to my requests. so the council is not only closed to the future, but also to the past. this is not just a problem with the french presidency. this is a problem with the council more generally. their argument is, among other things, a reference to a so-called 'gentlemen's agreement' between the council and parliament from 1970. i'm sorry, 1970! what are you doing? the european union was then called the community. that was when the community was a handful of countries and when parliament was not elected - it was appointed! this gentlemen's agreement is therefore a thing of the past and has no value today. as a parliament we must demand transparency, full disclosure and cooperation from the council.
in writing. − the danish social democrats have voted in favour of the majority of the eu climate package because it sets an ambitious target of reducing co2 emissions by 20% or 30% respectively, depending on whether a global agreement is reached, although not all the methods used are what we would have wanted. the social democrats voted against the burden-sharing proposal (i.e. the reduction in, among other things, agriculture, transport, etc.). this is because access to credit in developing countries is so great that the eu could meet up to 60-70% of its reduction commitment by buying reductions in the world's poorest countries. in reality, this would mean that the richest countries would buy themselves out of the necessary conversion and not invest in the technological development needed to meet the long-term 80% reduction targets. the social democrats voted against the proposal on co2 emissions from cars. the proposal would - contrary to what the european commission had proposed and contrary to the result of the vote in the environment committee - delay the requirements for industry to emit a maximum of 120g co2/km from 2012 by another 3 years. the car industry entered into a voluntary agreement to reduce co2 emissions 10 years ago and has had plenty of time to adjust to the rules that are needed if we are to combat global warming.
madam president, i too thank the commission for the good presentation of the problem. i am a member of the committee on the internal market and i helped to formulate the question we put to the commission on what to do about counterfeiting from a consumer protection point of view. i would like to start by saying that i think it is extremely important that we actually make an effort to reduce the amount of counterfeiting. there can be no doubt about that. but i also think it is extremely important that we have more knowledge of the consequences for consumers. there is no doubt that this means a great deal to businesses. but we have begun to use the argument that there are problems - also for consumer safety and consumer health. and so i think that although it is difficult to get accurate and reliable statistics, we have to make an effort to find out how dangerous counterfeit medicines really are, or what other products are. i have visited the danish authorities who are working on this and i have seen seizures of chewing gum and of water and of washing powder and all sorts of other everyday products. and it goes without saying that there may well be some concrete consequences for consumers if we consume chewing gum which is counterfeit and presumably does not comply with any rules about what may be in chewing gum - or what it could be. i just think we need information. because if we don't get that information about the harm or the health consequences, then i think it might be difficult to get consumers involved in this fight to do something about counterfeiting. consumers must know that there are consequences, so that they too will help to avoid buying cheap and counterfeit products. so that's why it's so crucial that we get knowledge and data in this area. so i look forward to the commission coming forward with a concrete proposal on how we can deal with this.
in writing. − in principle, the danish social democratic delegation is in favour of cer tain types of toys being certified by a third party to ensure that the products comply with eu rules. the amendment is not formulated in a way that is appropriate to this objective, and if it is adopted, the whole compromise will be lost. we want to improve the safety requirements for toys and we believe that this is best done overall by accepting the compromise reached by the european parliament and the council.
