mr president, the commission's work programme for 2008 states that the citizen is and must be at the heart of the european project. extrapolating this idea, i believe that the european union is approaching the kosovo process in the wrong way. we cannot continue to debate whether or not different international circumstances are appropriate for recognizing the independence of that country. the question that must prevail over all others is: what do the citizens of kosovo want? because they are the most important thing and because the key to conflict resolution is always twofold: respect for human rights and recognition of the right to freely decide their future as a people. i believe that the european union should take this speech as a reference for situations both outside and within its own borders.
mr president, with the new year two new countries have joined the euro area by adopting our common currency. this brings to the fore again a demand which should already be a reality in an advanced, modern and progressive union: parity in the coinage of coins. it is a constant throughout history: the presence of women in the minting of coins has practically never existed. their figures, their contributions and their work have not been the object, even in this form, of symbolic recognition. equality between men and women is one of the values on which we are building the european union and, in this context, parity must reach all areas. the work of so many women in different fields of knowledge - science, culture, pedagogy, politics - who deserve to have their work, their lives and their names recognised, researched and remembered, must be recognised and supported. in some countries, such as my own, spain, the parliament has adopted a proposal to this effect. this parliament and the commission should take the necessary initiatives and recommend to all member states that they take the appropriate measures to ensure that men and women are equally represented in the design of euro coins.
this closes this spot.
the next item is the report by mr jorgo chatzimarkakis, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on cars 21: a regulatory framework for a competitive automotive sector (2007/2120 (ini)) (a6-0494/2007).
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. cars 21 has a significance far beyond the automotive sector. it is the model for a forward-looking european industrial policy. this is the first attempt to agree, in cooperation with all the actors, on a long-term, stable framework for the development of a key european industry. i'm very proud that we did it. this is based on a very clear division of labour. we have told the european car industry that it cannot count on us to take protectionist measures to protect it from the increasing competition from other parts of the world. but we also told her that she can count on a stable, reliable and predictable framework, and above all, enough time - an aspect that mr chatzimarkakis has just mentioned - to prepare for the legal requirements of the future. i would like to make one comment on the state of the automobile industry in europe. it is one of the few industries in which europe still has undisputed world leadership. it is a key industry for europe, for technology, for growth and last but not least for employment. i am opposed to the idea being given to parts of the european public that it is immoral, even criminal, to build, buy and drive a car. the car is part of our european way of life, and it must be affordable, it must be safe, it must be reliable and it must be clean. that's exactly what cars 21 has done. the european automotive industry is not opposed to the ambitious climate targets set out in the european commission's proposal. i want to make it very clear that i am not against it either. it is clear that in the next step towards limiting co2 emissions from passenger cars we will reach a european average of 120 grams per kilometre. this is not in contradiction with the 125 grams mentioned by mr chatzimarkakis, because 5 grams of this is to be obtained by blending biofuels. there is no dispute that this objective is the next step. i also firmly believe that the european automobile industry will benefit if the legislator forces it to make a strong push for innovation, to build the world's most environmentally friendly cars alongside the best quality and safest cars. that will happen, i have not the slightest doubt. i have heard some undertones in the debate on this which i do not like, namely - i want to make this very clear here - the attempt to play off the manufacturers of larger cars against the manufacturers of smaller cars, or even the consumers, those who can or want to afford larger cars against those who can or want to afford only smaller cars, according to the motto: big car bad, small car good! the french president sarkozy has introduced a very remarkable argument into the debate, writing to the president of the commission that the ability to spend a lot of money on a car - that is, to buy an expensive and large car - does not buy the right to make more dirt. this argument is worth considering. i don't live in france, but i know that in france there are people who live in big castles and need a lot of energy to heat those castles. and i know that in france there are also people who live under bridges and do not cause any heating costs. what's the difference? if it is immoral to drive a big car and therefore make more dirt than someone who drives a small one, then it is just as immoral to live in a single-family house and cause more heating costs than someone who lives in a one-room apartment. i just want to point out that this argument seems very plausible at first glance, but on closer inspection it means that we would be going around the carbon issue to a profound regulation of lifestyle in europe. and we don't want that right now. the commission does not want that either. we want to preserve the entire range of european car manufacturers, and that is possible. i think that in the consultation which is now just ahead of us we shall be weighing very carefully what we can and want to offer to the manufacturers, what we can and want to offer to the consumers and what we can and want to offer to the road users. we are expecting a lot from them, i have to say, ladies and gentlemen! the european parliament has already taken a number of decisions, including the introduction of euro 5 and euro 6, which will lead to a significant increase in the price of european cars. the regulations we are going to introduce to improve pedestrian safety, measures on the car to protect pedestrians more when there are accidents involving them, will also cost a lot of money. the compulsory introduction of electronic stability control systems in european cars will also cost a lot of money, and then there is co2. we are doing this against the background of a situation in which the sector of the european automobile industry, which is the least profitable in the world, is under attack, and our export opportunities are worse, and we have more imports than exports, namely in the area of small and medium-sized vehicles. i am quite concerned about the security of a number of european manufacturers' sites. i am absolutely convinced that it is absolutely necessary to make all industrial products, including the car, as environmentally friendly as technically possible. but i don't think we should do it in a way that applies to all industrial products, not just the car, that jeopardizes the international competitiveness of industries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the steel industry moves from europe to kazakhstan, believe me, there are less strict rules in kazakhstan than in europe. the result would be more emissions, and at the same time the result would be the loss of tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of jobs. i would be grateful if these aspects were never forgotten in the very controversial debate we are about to have. a modern european industrial policy and a modern european environmental policy can demonstrate that economics and ecology are not in a natural opposition, but that it is possible to solve the ecological challenges of the future through sound economics and modern technology. that's what cars 21 was about, what we're talking about here today, what all the stakeholders were discussing, and that was the really crucial outcome. it is a result which i believe deserves the support of a broad european public. (applause from the centre)
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, the automobile sector, which is a major contributor to employment and the european economy, needs an ambitious framework with coherent integrated measures, in line with the lisbon strategy, to meet the new challenges. our industry, which is the world leader in passenger car production, second in trucks and with good after-sales services, must assert its position and be in a position to meet the needs of mobility and transport, improving productivity, increasing safety and contributing to the environment. to achieve this, economic efficiency is key. this will enable all objectives to be met and affordable prices to be guaranteed for the renewal of the fleet, the acquisition of vehicles and their maintenance throughout their useful life. this is what the committee on economic and monetary affairs has stressed, supporting also the advancement of competition and the protection of intellectual property rights, and the improvement of the tax treatment of the sector. all this is to a large extent incorporated in the report, and i congratulate the rapporteur on that.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr chatzimarkakis on his report, as it urges the commission to set ambitious targets, but also to be realistic targets. in addition, it follows some of the recommendations of cars 21, such as the integrated approach to co2 emissions reduction, the need for adequate entry-into-force periods and the protection of the internal and external competitiveness of european industry. i would like to highlight a few points. the first is that road safety objectives are an essential issue, and here too an integrated approach is needed, incorporating improvements in vehicle technology, infrastructure measures and education and information. on trade, and particularly on the negotiations with korea, it is necessary that korea should remove the existing non-tariff barriers and not create new ones. it should also be stressed that better regulation principles such as appropriate impact studies, cost efficiency or appropriate entry periods play a key role in creating a competitive regulatory framework for the automotive industry. in this respect, the roadmap, which is an essential part of the final report on cars 21, should be respected. there are obviously some structural problems and, of course, what is obvious is that we must create a framework to ensure the sustainability of the european car industry. the only way forward is to stay at the forefront of technological, ecological and social innovation with the support of highly qualified staff. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. european legislation on the environment, road safety and energy efficiency requires adequate training of workers so that they can better adapt to changes, both technical and regulatory, and thus maintain or improve their employment prospects. in addition, to ensure the future of the european automobile industry, the right to information and consultation with workers and their trade union organizations must be strengthened throughout the union. in this connection, let me give as an example the recent agreement between ford and the general workers' union at the valencia plant, which will allow for further investment in its modernisation and the production of new models. participation strengthens the sector and, where restructuring is necessary, mitigates its negative effects. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive on the european works council is implemented.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his patient listening and attention to the various requirements reflecting the current diversity of airport systems in europe. the commission should also be congratulated for being aware that this diversity cannot, on the other hand, lead to opaque systems which are likely to be discriminatory or involve little involvement of the various actors and users. i believe that the present text, following the rapporteur's intensive effort at dialogue and arbitration, offers us a very useful instrument for the three main actors - national authorities, airports and companies - to resolve their differences, ultimately in favour of workers and passengers, by offering a good quality service, in line with the requirements of new travellers, as well as with the new requirements of accessibility, greater safety, less environmental impact, especially in terms of noise, and low conflicts and legal uncertainty through better consultation. perhaps it would have been better to make the criterion of application simpler and only towards a percentage, which would perhaps have been more representative. in any case, i am grateful that the text recognises the operability of airport networks which have proved to be a very useful system for countries like mine, with serious seasonal problems which airlines appreciate. i also announce my intention of completing this by proposing that parliamentary or judicial formulas be accepted to ensure the current rates.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
the rules of procedure of the house provide that voting shall normally be by show of hands, except where a roll-call vote is expressly requested. in the case of a show of hands it may happen - it is not frequent, but it happens occasionally, sporadically - that the presidency, either because members do not raise their hands or because there is some confusion, makes a mistake in the direction of the vote. in this case, too, a member often asks for a verification and then the president verifies by roll-call vote and the situation is resolved. so all this is planned and our votes are, in 99.9% of the cases, perfectly correct. in any event, the president of parliament received a letter from mr booth at the time, pointing out this problem and asking for action to be taken. this matter will be dealt with in the conference of presidents and, of course, in the working party on the reform of the house's working methods. all that's in the works. so, mr farage, rest assured that we will give the matter our full attention and we will try to make things work better every day. today, mr swoboda, today we are going to vote 'also in accordance with the rules of procedure', as a political group has requested, by roll-call vote. this, today. and from today on, we'll make our determinations.
in accordance with the agenda, we shall now proceed to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
mr. booth, the results of the vote are on the screen. so, as you have asked that all votes today be by roll call and we are doing so, what i am trying to do is to make this form of voting as unburdensome as possible for the house, if you don't mind, mr booth.
mr hannan, as far as i know, all the votes that have been taken this morning have been by roll call. the regulation has therefore been scrupulously respected.
there are fourteen members of the house who have asked for explanations of vote for each of the seven debates which took place yesterday and this morning. fourteen members and each one has asked for an explanation of vote on each of the seven debates: ten are members of the independence/democracy group, two of the european people's party group and two are not registered. if these explanations of vote were to take place now, this would occupy us for about two hours. i therefore put the following question to the house: either we go ahead with the explanations of vote and stay for two more hours or we interrupt the sitting now, as mr schulz proposed, and the explanations of vote will take place tonight. (the house agreed to this proposal. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
mr president, the establishment of a multiannual framework for the european union agency for fundamental rights is an extremely important issue for those of us who believe that fundamental rights are in the dna of europeans. and so i join those who, starting with the rapporteur and the rest of the speakers, have said that we should move forward with this multiannual framework, move forward with the functioning of this agency. and i also believe that this report, as mrs gál has said, which i follow as the spokeswoman for my group, is a balanced report, in which an effort has been made to be useful without asking too much. i think that is the expression used by the rapporteur. i would like to ask commissioner frattini, my good friend franco frattini, for a little more complicity. the fact that the european commission only accepts nine of the 18 amendments we are going to table seems to me to be a small thing, and we must make an effort, mr vice-president of the commission, on such an important subject as this. i had the good fortune and the honour of chairing the parliament's delegation to the convention which drew up the charter, and i also chair the atd fourth world intergroup with equal honour, and we have succeeded in passing an amendment, amendment no 15, to include the fight against social exclusion and poverty in the agency's objectives. why would you do that? because those who are socially excluded, those who are in the most abject poverty, in the end do not enjoy any fundamental rights, and that is why we think it would be an important political signal to our fellow citizens if this amendment no 15 were to be viewed with more sympathy than you have. because i think that in the end we members of parliament represent the people, and the people ask us to look after those who have less. i hope, therefore, commissioner, that this debate will make you understand the importance of going from 9 to more and of supporting the european parliament's position on this matter.
mr president, this report provides a comprehensive and coherent view of the work we must do with children from the european union. we must involve all those responsible for ensuring that children's rights to equal education are respected, that all forms of violence and child labour are combated and that migrant children are protected. we are aware of the evolution of society and recognize that the traditional family model cannot be the only reference point and that there are more and more alternative models to which we must pay attention from the deep conviction that children should enjoy a favourable family environment. in connection with this subject i would like to highlight the initiative concerning international adoptions, where we need a legal regulation more adapted to reality, responding to the unknowns that are present today and which, in some states, such as spain, has already been initiated, guaranteeing the best interests of the child. but before i finish i would like to point out the reservation of the spanish socialist delegation to paragraph 127 concerning the ban on the veil in school, since we are more in favour of dialogue and mediation. ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the most vulnerable sectors of society, but also about a future which needs a solid foundation of values such as respect, tolerance and coexistence.
mr president, the subject of health services is a recurring one in the debates of the european parliament. every time we talk about the services directive they want to be included and so far we have opposed them and they have been left out. the supply of medicines is a health service. there are some states, such as spain, which have a consolidated set of 'pharmacy' establishments and only in them can medicines be dispensed. i would like to ask the commissioner whether the commission's investigation shows any difference between those states where pharmacies are a restricted and supervised trade and the rest, as regards the counterfeiting of medicines and the inferior quality of the medicines.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would very much like to show my appreciation of this report and to congratulate the rapporteur, ms pack for her commitment, efforts and contributions and also mr andersson from the committee on employment and social affairs and ms flasarová from the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. i am very pleased that our two communications from 2006 and 2007 received a very concrete and strong response from the european parliament. the first was on adult learning and the second, on the european action plan on this matter, adopted in september. as you have recognised, the importance of adult learning is clearly increasing. first of all, global competition is a reality. we need to invest in education at all stages of life and at all levels, and the skills and competences of adults need to be continuously upgraded. secondly, demographic changes mean that people need to work at least some years longer and they need to maintain the relevance of their skills to do this. thirdly, adult learning helps to combat social exclusion. too many adults with low education levels risk being excluded from the labour market. so adult learning has a vital role in lifelong learning strategies. i welcome your support for many reasons, particularly for improving the quality and accessibility of adult learning, including through better childcare and e-learning, and in particular for groups with special needs, as well as for speeding up the assessment of skills and valuing informal learning, for investing more in general and also for adapting to the needs of women, migrants and the ageing population. last but not least, for developing reliable and comparable data to measure adult learning, as ms pack mentioned. we will follow up all these elements in implementing the european action plan. as you suggest, these are all kinds of good practices in the member states which we will use in our cooperation. we will support these best practices via peer learning activities and studies, through the lifelong learning programme and the european social fund mentioned earlier, in order to share knowledge and experience. in implementing the action plan with the cooperation of member states, we will analyse the effect of national reforms on adult learning, especially in the light of the recently adopted european qualifications framework. we will also develop standards for adult learning professionals and quality assurance mechanisms based on existing good practice. we want to encourage member states to set targets for increasing the skill levels of adults and to speed up the process of assessing and recognising non-formal and informal learning for groups at risk. last but not least, we will propose a set of core data to improve monitoring of the sector. i look forward to the debate but in particular to continuous support in this direction.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs pack, on her excellent work and also on her spirit of collaboration with our suggestions. i would like to stress the timeliness of this report at a time when the scale of socioeconomic change, the rapid transition to an information society, the demographic trend associated with the ageing of the european population, all these changes call for major efforts in the field of adult education and training and lifelong learning. these are key elements in achieving what we call the objectives of the lisbon strategy. i would like to stress from the report the need to encourage people to be motivated to learn throughout their lives. but i think that, in order to be effective, it should be accompanied by active policies which favour above all the reconciliation of learning with family and working life, which is particularly necessary in the case of women. these measures should include incentives to access training programmes and, in particular, the expansion of public services for childcare and education, care for the elderly and 'dependants', in order to free families from these burdens which, in many cases, still fall on women. i am also convinced that a culture of learning should be fostered which recognises merit and effectively improves the employment prospects of people with low levels of qualification and which contributes to strengthening social inclusion and personal development. this approach is particularly decisive for so-called risk groups. i also believe it is essential to modernise and make higher education systems more flexible in order to make them more accessible to the growing and diverse social needs of the population, while improving the quality of education and broadening its offer. finally, i would like to mention the importance of extending the digital training offer to reduce the digital divide that also exists within our societies, between the sexes, between generations and between populations in different territories. finally, i welcome the commission's proposal and hope that it will take account of the proposals of this parliament in order to contribute jointly to raising awareness in the member states of the need to act as soon as possible in this field, not only to remove obstacles to the participation of adults in learning, but to encourage it, to recognise its economic, social and cultural value in all countries and to exchange national data to enable progress to be compared and measured.
on behalf of the green group, i would also like to begin by thanking and congratulating mrs pack on her report, because, given her character, the truth is that a large part of the amendments tabled by our group were also incorporated in the report. i would like to say that adult education has always been one of the best ways of achieving economic and social development of peoples and contributing to a better distribution of wealth. in this changing information society, where knowledge must be constantly updated, basic adult education first, and continuing training second, is a necessity of the first order. adults must adapt to the constant change that globalization forces and make choices in order to survive and maintain an adequate quality of life. however, most education systems do not respond sufficiently to the educational needs of young people to be able to respond adequately to the changing society in which they live. education, unlike other times, must not provide lessons for a known world, but for a world characterized by permanent change that can lead to unpredictable situations. the aim is to provide an education system which can respond to the needs of adults in a society in constant change. it would be an education that would prepare for anticipation and innovation and would no longer be concerned with an education for adaptation. we are in the process of moving from an industrial to a post-industrial society, and this type of society is the one we are aiming at, and it is this type of society that will be the framework for adult education, and that is why i congratulated the rapporteur and i would like to congratulate the committee, because i believe that the present report is moving in this direction.
member of the commission. − mr president, before going into the content of the report, i first of all want to thank the rapporteur, mr graefe zu baringdorf, and the members of the committee on agriculture and rural development, for the work that they have been doing on the evaluation of the commission’s proposal. i would first like to make a few more general remarks to place the commission’s proposal in the right context. the commission’s proposal concerns the agro-meteorological system utilised to prepare the crop yields forecast and to monitor the development of crops within the european union. this system was developed throughout the 1990s and has been fully operational since 1998. i must say that i consider this to be a very useful tool. this system provides the commission’s services with accurate information on the situation in the crop sector and also assists the commission in taking timely decisions in the framework of the common agricultural policy, and therefore i find that it is quite natural that it is financed by the guidance funding. let me say the following on some of the proposals in the committee on agriculture report. you have concerns about the use of the data that are collected. i want to be very clear on this. control is not the aim of this system and it cannot and will not be used for any control of farmers within the european union. when we look at it from a technical point of view, the resolution of the remote-sensing images generated by the system is far too low to allow any controls, and this system – it must be clear as well – has nothing to do with our integrated administration and control (iacs) system. the rapporteur also states that there is no consensus that the proposed system actually works. work to develop the system started in the late 1980s and, as i said, since 1998, when it became operational, the system has actually provided yield forecasts on a regular basis to the commission services. we use this information on a daily basis, for example in our analysis of supply and price developments within the cereal sector. last year, in september 2007, the commission provided an assessment of the system in a report to the european parliament and to the council that actually demonstrated the usefulness of the system. the system is also implemented at national level in several member states, and other countries are using or developing similar tools, so on this point i am not totally in line with you. finally, i welcome the principle of setting up an inventory of projects and initiatives in the field of space and remote-sensing. however, this proposal is not the right place for this. this would indeed fall under the european initiative of global monitoring for environment and security. so we are not exactly on the same page, but i look forward to listening to the comments of the honourable members.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, commissioner, good evening and one more evening of agricultural talk. as the committee points out in its report, remote sensing has in recent years proved its ability to meet the management needs of the common agricultural policy. because the classical systems of statistics and agricultural forecasting are starting to become obsolete in the face of this new technology that is invading every aspect of our lives. it has also made it possible to increase the accuracy, objectivity, speed and frequency of observations, and to save on the costs of monitoring and controlling agricultural expenditure. the commission is therefore proposing to introduce remote sensing in the common agricultural policy. the draft report which will be put to the vote tomorrow supports the european commission in general terms, except on one point which i consider important, namely the financing of this measure. in the committee on agriculture i supported the rapporteur's proposal to create a specific budget for remote sensing of eur 9.2 million outside the european agricultural guarantee fund, in order to ensure future community support for the development of remote sensing in all member states. i therefore welcome the outcome of the vote in the committee on agriculture, whose report also mentions the need to use the computer site of the joint research centre in ispra to collect spatial data, rather than the idea of creating a new computer infrastructure as proposed by the european commission. let us therefore rationalise both the infrastructures and the financial budget and let us therefore support the text which will be put to the vote tomorrow.
mr president, commissioner frattini has, as usual, made a fine legal analysis. as he has said, in the present circumstances it does not seem appropriate to go directly to the court of justice. but after hearing mr zwiefka, who tells us about a proposal by the present polish government for a change in legislation, i ask the commissioner whether he thinks that the commission could simply turn to the polish government, on the basis of the debate we have had at this moment in parliament, to see whether the polish government does indeed intend to change the legislation in order to bring the situation of the european parliamentarian into line with that of the national parliamentarian.
mr president, i wish the slovenian presidency every success, a fine symbol of the transformation of the european union. it is six months in which they will be dealing with very important matters. i will mention a few. first, the spring european council, which will focus on the lisbon strategy. the truth is that we are in a difficult economic situation: growth forecasts are being lowered as a result of the financial crisis, rising inflation, the strength of the euro and a very weak dollar, and the very high price of oil. food goes up too. citizens expect effective decisions that will restore confidence in a time of uncertainty. on the external front, there is the kosovo question, which affects such important principles as the stability of borders and territorial integrity. don't rush into it. the european council in december, it seems to me, acted somewhat rashly. he made decisions such as sending a civilian mission, but without agreement, it seems, on the legal basis. it is paradoxical that this should happen in the european union, which is a community of law. the kosovo issue is delicate, it requires prudence. they should try to get a new security council resolution. in may, as you mentioned, the important lima summit will take place with the latin american countries, which are so close to the europeans in terms of principles and values. lima should also be used as a lever to unblock the negotiations with mercosur and to promote the negotiations with the andean countries and with central america on their respective association agreements. in march, the schengen area will be extended to airports. these are decisive moments for the external borders of the union and this brings me to the fight against illegal immigration. a meeting of the ministers responsible for border control is planned. it seems very timely. it is necessary to increase cooperation between them and to make sure that those who deal with the external borders are fully aware that they are not only doing a national but also a european job and that they are co-responsible for what happens throughout the schengen area. finally, i ask you to work also on the fight against terrorism. the citizens expect the european union to produce results in this area which is so important for their lives.
the chairman of the council. - i am very pleased that the european parliament will be discussing the situation in kenya today and will also be considering a motion for a resolution on the current situation there. the european parliament has already sent a very important signal, a signal of the european parliament's interest in the situation in kenya, by sending an election observation mission headed by mr lambsdorff and also its own delegation headed by mr mulder. the elections in kenya, as you know, were held on december 27. the very high turnout of kenyan voters is a testament to the commitment of the kenyan people to the democratic process and their confidence in that process. the european union election observation mission, headed by mr lambsdorff, attended the elections and noted a number of irregularities in the counting and counting of votes in those elections. these irregularities raise serious doubts as to the actual outcome of these elections. as is well known, violence erupted in nairobi, the capital, as well as in other parts of kenya, when the election results were announced. supporters of opposition leader mr. odinke clashed with the security forces on several occasions, and supporters of president kibaki were attacked. there was a shooting by security forces into the crowd. according to louise arbour, the united nations high commissioner for human rights, the security forces responded, and i quote, "excessively violently", end of quote. at least 600 people have lost their lives, and nearly a quarter of a million people have been displaced. and this is in kenya, this is in a country that is usually flooded with refugees from neighboring countries -- from somalia, from south sudan. the economy is also affected, and not just in the country itself, in kenya, but also in neighboring countries, especially those that don't have their own access to the sea. this is a tragedy. but it is also a serious blow to the process of democratization, a blow to the whole of africa, a continent where kenya was seen as one of the role models. the european union condemned the violence in kenya. we called on political leaders in kenya to address the doubts about the correctness of the elections and, above all, to engage in dialogue and find a political solution. of course, we also responded to the humanitarian needs of the kenyan people. the european union welcomed the intervention of former president kufuor, who chairs the african union. we also expressed our support for the group of eminent african personalities led by former un secretary-general kofi annan, who are due to arrive in nairobi shortly. meanwhile, president kibaki appointed his cabinet without consulting the opposition leader, mr. odingo. the latter called for mass demonstrations in kenya in three days. on the other hand, more positively, yesterday the kenyan parliament held its first session. the opposition candidate was elected speaker of parliament. this was encouraging in the sense that certain democratic rules are still respected in the country and that the opposition has its voice. as far as the european union is concerned, it is quite clear that business as usual is out of the question in kenya until a political compromise is reached. one that would lead to a lasting solution, a solution that would reflect the will of the kenyan people. a solution that will win the confidence of the kenyan people and a solution that will return kenya to a period of stability. the european union is also pleased to note that the situation following the kenyan elections has been a major disappointment and continues to be a cause for concern. but none of this compares with the disappointment that the kenyan people themselves are likely to feel. residents who have turned out in large numbers to vote in hopes of a better future.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission is of course deeply concerned about the serious crisis in kenya. moreover, the day after the elections, when we saw the warning signs of the risk of chaos following what was happening, particularly during the counting of the ballots, we mobilized, we made a number of contacts with the authorities on both sides, both the outgoing majority and the opposition. i must say that i had no difficulty in having direct and personal contact with mr odinga. however, since then, and despite repeated attempts, i have never had the opportunity to have a personal and direct contact with mr kibaki, which is surprising given that in the past such contact was easily obtained. so that's pretty significant of the unease that was there. the post-election violence, which has left over 600 people dead and over 250,000 displaced, has clearly highlighted the frustration and anger of the kenyan people at the deep-seated problems of socioeconomic inequality and corruption that undermine kenyan society, with the risk of ethnic confrontation. but these elections also highlighted the democratic aspirations of the kenyan people. this aspiration was frustrated by irregularities on the day of the vote which unfortunately cast serious doubt on the validity of the official results. we fully share the conclusions and statements of the european union election observation mission headed by your colleague alexander lambsdorff, whom i really want to congratulate on the remarkable work he has done, to the extent that international bodies, outside the european union, which had embarked on a somewhat less categorical position, somewhat less objective in a certain way, have finally joined mr lambsdorff's findings and conclusions and endorsed them. the commission's position on the political situation in kenya is very clear. it is urgent that the kenyan political leaders take their responsibilities seriously and commit themselves immediately and seriously to the search for a political agreement. in the absence of such a commitment, the european union will probably have no choice but to review its relations with kenya, which have been excellent so far. kenya is a country that was considered to be rather average in terms of governance, in terms of human rights and in terms of democracy and it also played an important role in regional stability. these are things to remember. the search for a political agreement is therefore the primary responsibility of the kenyan leaders. it requires an immediate end to provocations and violence in the streets, but also in the media and public opinion. it is crucial that president mwai kibaki and opposition leader raila odinga agree to compromise, recognising that the election result has not been properly translated into the exercise of power and responsibility and that there must inevitably be power-sharing in order to avoid a continuation of the political crisis. this power-sharing could be an interim solution pending, for example, possible new elections. finally, it is important that the kenyan political class recognises the urgent need to address the underlying issues that are at the root of this outbreak of violence, whether it is the constitutional organisation of power, the political governance of the country or the serious discrimination and socioeconomic inequalities. the commission and the european union as a whole fully support the african mediation initiated by president kufuor and continued by mr kofi annan through graça machel and benjamin mkapa. they call on president kibaki and raila odinga to cooperate fully in the search for a political agreement. i had a long conversation with desmond tutu at the beginning of the crisis, when he was on his mediation mission. i also had a very long conversation with mr kofi annan, from which it appears that what seems most appropriate is that african mediation should accompany a process of rapprochement. i have promised the commission's support for this mediation, both politically and financially. in any case, we must welcome the fact that the kenyan parliamentary speaker was duly elected last night. it is a sign that the constitutional framework is being respected, at least from that point of view. however, the next few days will be crucial. we will be monitoring the situation closely and will be in constant contact with the african mediation. we will adapt our relationship with kenya, including cooperation, to the changing situation and to each other's concrete actions. all options are on the table today. it is important that there be european and international consultation in order to have the maximum impact in our action. today we can consider that this international community is on the same page, that there are no longer any differences in approach, sensitivity or even strategy. this is important. this was not necessarily the case at the outset, directly after the elections. i think today it's a given, and it's a good thing. the commission has reacted very quickly to the humanitarian situation. following the assessments of echo experts and our partners on the ground, the commission has released an initial emergency aid of €5.5 million to meet the needs of displaced people for water, food, shelter and health.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, further proof that the kenyan people have not overwhelmingly supported president kibaki is that in the parliamentary elections, held jointly with the presidential elections, the opposition party of odinga won more than twice as many seats as kibaki's party. this has enabled odinga, as we know, to take over the presidency of parliament, which was inaugurated yesterday in nairobi. on the other hand, twenty-two of mr kibaki's ministers, who were aspiring to be mps, were defeated in the elections. the responsibility of president kibaki, in my view, is enormous, not just for the electoral fraud. five years of your rule have ended in frustration, disillusionment and deception. the economy, it is true, has grown by 6%, but more than half the population still lives below the poverty line. and several of the cabinet ministers that, in a clear act of provocation, kibaki has appointed, have been linked to corruption cases. this president, who is fraudulently trying to remain in power, bears another serious responsibility: his actions have led to the resurgence of inter-ethnic confrontation, a spiral that may be difficult to contain. if all this were not enough - as you know - the chairman of the electoral commission of kenya, two weeks ago, declared, nothing less, that he does not know who has won the presidential elections. in view of all this, it seems to me to make perfect sense, as point 11 of parliament's joint motion for a resolution says, to call for new elections if it is impossible for an independent institution to organise a fair, transparent and credible counting of the votes cast in the elections of 27 december.
mr president, we europeans cannot simply say that we are very worried, but that we are very hopeful that things will return to normal. because a return to normalcy paid for by accepting kibaki's fraudulent victory is not a solution we can accept. in too many african countries, rigged elections have robbed citizens of all faith and hope in the democratic system. a new case, this time in kenya, would be lethal to africa's democratic hopes. the solution can only come from strong external pressure. without strong outside pressure the two leaders will not reach any kind of agreement. and we must tell kibaki clearly that his government is illegal and act accordingly. otherwise our election observation missions would be meaningless. we have spoken of the responsibility of africans, but let us also remember our own. for too long we have turned a blind eye to what was happening in kenya. for too long we have been singing the praises of a country that is an example of democracy, forgetting the social inequalities, the corruption that reigned throughout the country: 16 billion dollars in aid received in this country since independence and only four presidents. kenya is paying dearly for the coverage and support we have given to their bad governments, without denouncing them. we can't close our eyes now.
the chairman of the council. - i would first like to thank you for the report by mr díaz de mera garcía consuegra on the commission's proposal for a council decision establishing the european police office europol. the council is currently discussing the draft decision and the presidency will of course be consulted on the matter, or take account of the report by the member. in particular, in the area of personal data protection and democratic control, i would like to stress that the presidency will take account of, or will endeavour to take account of, the concerns expressed by the rapporteur. the shaping, finalisation of the council decision by june 2008 is one of the priorities of our presidency. the main objective of the decision, which will replace the europol convention, is to improve the operational and administrative functioning of europol and thus enable it to respond more quickly and effectively to new challenges. i would point out that the previous presidencies, the german and portuguese, have already made significant progress on this dossier, and that this has been the basis for the final formulation of chapters one, two, three, six, seven and nine. this is the chapter on establishment and tasks, on data processing systems, on common provisions on the processing of information, on organisation, on confidentiality issues and on other provisions. the presidency will therefore focus in particular on the remaining chapters, which relate to relations with partners, data protection and security, budgetary provisions, i.e. monitoring and evaluation, and transitional and final provisions. in the discussions on the open chapters, the presidency will, in accordance with the conclusions of the council of june last, pay particular attention to finding satisfactory solutions to the following questions. firstly, the question of the waiver of immunity of europol officials participating in joint investigation teams. secondly, the principle of rotation and the possibility for europol staff participating in joint investigation teams to receive instructions from the head of the team, and finally, the third question of budgetary neutrality. the expert groups have already started discussions on the above issues, and the europol working party and the article 36 committee are continuing them. the key elements of all these discussions will be to improve europol's operational capacity and to respect the principle of budgetary neutrality. the presidency intends to reach agreement on these issues as early as the first quarter of 2008. the presidency will also closely monitor developments in the implementation plan. this plan identifies all the key points to be completed in order for the europol decision to apply from 1 january 2010. initial discussions on all such implementing measures are expected to start in the first half of this year.
the commission's vice-president - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency, to which i am grateful, has just said that the commission's proposal of december 2006, which aims to replace the europol convention by a council decision, is one of its priorities and that it wishes to obtain a political agreement as soon as possible. i naturally give it my full support because i believe that the administrative functioning of europol will be significantly improved and that, as the justice and home affairs council of ministers already stressed in june, the ability to work effectively is an essential objective of europol reform. i also warmly thank the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera, for the quality of his report and i would like to emphasize the quality of the amendments proposed on the basis of his proposal, which has since been subject to many amendments, as the presidency has mentioned, following discussions during the german and portuguese presidencies. the commission will examine how these amendments can be taken into account. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for the future of europol. i also support the idea of community funding, as referred to in amendment no 6, which relates to recital 5. i also support the request for a community status for europol in amendment no 5. in general, i am very interested in the amendments that have been tabled on the role of the data protection officer, such as amendment no 9, and those concerning data protection. there are many, but i would like to mention in particular amendments nos 13, 16, 17, 18, 23, 24 and 25, and i can share their objective. as regards the role of europol agents in coordinating the joint investigation teams, i would point out that this coordinating role has not been supported by the council. there has been a lot of discussion about this and, in the light of the legislation currently applicable to joint investigation teams, member states can still, in the arrangements they make between participating states, set up a joint investigation team and specify and limit the role of europol officers. so, on this point, we must continue to discuss it in order to reach a good compromise. at this stage, therefore, to include such a provision in the proposal for a europol decision would unfortunately not be sufficient to give europol officers a wider role in coordinating investigations, which i would personally like to see, as a matter of law and systematically. i agree with amendment no 15, which proposes to specify the relationship between the national unit and the competent authorities governed by national law. so here are a few comments i would like to make on this report and i thank the rapporteur again. i hope that parliament's vote will be able to take place this week so that we can all give europol a strong perspective for the near future and the possibility of having a new statute for it to function better very soon.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to begin by asking for the council's commitment to this house that the decision we are debating will be reviewed by the european parliament within a maximum period of six months from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. as a member of the european parliament i strongly support the extension of parliament's powers, especially those which, in the foreseeable future, will give this house the necessary status of co-legislator on matters as important as those relating to the area of freedom, security and justice. however, i also believe that parliament cannot condition or suspend its work on the foreseeable entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. our work must therefore continue. we must continue the procedure under way and use it in two directions: to be more effective in the fight against crime and to make a firm claim to the powers of the european parliament. crime is dynamic and constantly evolving, and europol and the other instruments available to the union to safeguard the security of its citizens need to adapt more quickly to the new times. the convention of july 1995 has become obsolete. it is therefore crucial that the europol decision, with its many advances, should enter into force swiftly and that european citizens should be better protected. the maintenance of the protocol system for amending the convention is an absolutely anachronistic procedure. the new proposal which i am putting to the vote today introduces substantial changes. on the one hand, it is presented by a council decision on the basis of article 34 (2) teu, a much more flexible instrument. the proposal also introduces fundamental changes, such as the transformation of the office into a european agency, which will mean that the staff regulations of officials of the communities will apply to its staff and, as is desirable, that its financing will be borne by the community budget. another notable change is the extension of europol's remit to cover non-organised crime. the figure of the independent data protection officer is another important step forward in terms of control and safeguards. the work of the committee on civil liberties has served a twofold purpose. firstly, to amend the council's proposal to provide europol with a specific framework for the protection of personal data and, in this connection, i would like to stress the need for the council to adopt the proposal for a framework decision in this area as soon as possible. secondly, to give parliament greater control over europol's activities. to this end, we have proposed the creation of an ad hoc committee composed of members of this house and of national parliaments, the involvement of the european parliament in the process of appointing and dismissing the director, and other measures to ensure budgetary control of the new agency and its work programme. i sincerely believe that the proposals adopted in our committee improve the original, otherwise very changeable, council document. that is why i ask you, mr president-in-office, to support our report. i would like to end by sincerely thanking my colleagues from all the political groups for their valuable contributions, and i would particularly like to highlight the negotiating efforts of mr moraes, mr alvaro and mr fava and the contributions of mrs buitenweg and mr catania.
madam president, a little clarification. as our socialist coordinator has said, we socialists still think that the rapporteur is not the best person to carry out reports on judicial and police cooperation. it is true, as mr coelho has said, that the supreme court has dismissed the case, but this is a matter of ethics and political dignity. i would like to make it clear that the rapporteur refused to cooperate with the spanish judiciary and was fined for this. and not on a trivial subject: on the trial of the terrorists of the biggest attack ever perpetrated on the territory of the european union. we therefore think that, for reasons of consistency, we cannot refuse to cooperate with the judiciary in spain and then teach lessons in europe on how states should cooperate with each other in police and judicial matters.
the chairman of the council. - allow me to make just a comment or two on this very interesting debate which i had the honour of attending. first of all, the council's position on the amendments, which are not few, but i cannot yet present the council's position here either. as stated in the introduction, the council is still discussing this decision and will discuss it in this context, including through amendments. i can assure you that as the presidency we will endeavour to examine in detail and carefully all the amendments that will be adopted and, in addition, we will endeavour to incorporate them into the text of the decision as many as possible. of course, i can't guarantee more than that. as is well known, the agreement of all member states is still required for the adoption of a decision during this period. and that brings me to my next comment on the audit clause. the council is not taking a position on this either, but i think i can express some reservations on behalf of the presidency about the inclusion of mechanisms in the text of an act such as this, mechanisms which would be triggered automatically in the period after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the lisbon treaty is not yet in force. its implementation is in the hands of national parliaments and, in at least one case, the electorate. in my view, by incorporating such mechanisms into acts such as this, we are not only not facilitating the adoption of acts such as this, but also not facilitating the ratification procedures that are currently under way. i also believe that this question is satisfactorily resolved in declaration no 50, which is annexed to the text of the treaty of lisbon.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all the contributions that have been offered, i will be very brief. first of all, i will give a general answer to all those who have expressed doubts about the need to strengthen europol, to those who have spoken of popular will, of the concerns of the citizens. i would say that if there is one area in which the vast majority of european citizens express fears about the free movement of criminals and call for greater security, it is police cooperation. if there is one area where the more we talk about, as mr stubb said, the more we liberalize the movement of people, the more we need european coordination and action on transnational crime, then the idea of a european agency is certainly not the idea of a bureaucratic body, it is the idea of a rapid and effective operational tool. that is why i am convinced - and not only because i tabled the proposal - that this decision must be adopted quickly, as the slovenian presidency wishes. i have already mentioned the amendment tabled by mr alvaro on the amendments. i would remind you that the idea of periodically reviewing the proper functioning of the current third pillar initiatives is something that the declaration 50 just mentioned already allows. what do they say? it is said that the commission, on a case-by-case basis, when the situation is appropriate after entry into force, proposes the revision of instruments currently in the third pillar to change them into instruments which have full co-decision with parliament and the procedures which this parliament rightly wants in my view. so the tool is already there. it is perhaps the need to restrict this instrument to such a narrow time frame that poses some problems for me personally, but i also wonder and i have no prejudice about this: is it appropriate to consider a revision of an instrument such as the europol decision which has not yet entered into force? i ask this because you know that if we had adopted this decision by the slovenian presidency in june 2008, it would have entered into force in january 2010. so can we think now of committing ourselves to reviewing an instrument when it is operational in january 2010? i would not be opposed to the argument that when the system is in place, if problems arise with insufficient democratic control, that will be a good reason for the european commission to apply declaration 50 and to change the instrument from the third pillar to the new system. i also gave the example to say that we cannot close the door today to a requirement of parliament to have democratic control, it is perhaps the manner and timing of this strict mandatory review that poses a problem for us.
the rapporteur. - madam president, before you start counting the time, i would ask you to consider the following: to give me the two minutes which are my due by regulation to reply to all my colleagues, to the council and to the commission, out of courtesy, but also, madam president, i would ask you very much to give me a separate time to reply to the very serious, unjustified allusions to which i have been the object. can i count on your understanding, ma'am? thank you very much. i am very grateful for the contributions of almost all the members and i take them very seriously. i would like to say that the concerns that have been expressed here are not the concerns of the rapporteur, but also the concerns of the house. and it has been very gratifying for me to hear the council's goodwill and the timely words of commitment and also clarifications from vice-president frattini. so thank you to all the colleagues, to those who have distinguished me with their support and also to those who have distinguished me with their criticism. because you must not forget that i have been and am a member of parliament for seventeen years and for two years director-general of the police of the kingdom of spain. i was. so i have the ability to see both sides of the coin. the problems which concern us, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to stress again: we cannot fight crime alone. crime is transnational. crime crosses borders and our police, who are national, must have an instrument of support and reinforcement at europol. no intrusion and no overlap. support and reinforcement. we care a lot about guarantees. we are very keen to support and strengthen europol, but under three criteria: trust, control and guarantees. and that is what is evident, of course, in our report and in the contributions of our colleagues. we are concerned about data protection in the framework decision, the third pillar, as soon as possible. we are very concerned about the control of this parliament and we are very concerned about the fight against organized crime in a determined and determined way. and now, madam president, i would like to answer the second question, which is much more unpleasant, by way of allusion. look, mr. moreno doesn't respect court orders. the supreme court of the kingdom of spain and the prosecutor of the supreme court of the kingdom of spain have literally said in reference to my case, literally 'i do not know if this can be translated correctly', literally they have said 'absence of any criminal wrongdoing'. but some gentlemen, like mr moreno, have not had and do not have the intellectual and moral honesty to apologize for having spread what they should not have spread. what mr moreno has done here is to intoxicate parliament as usual with questions which have nothing to do with the report or the substance of the matter. he talks about morality and indignity. it is immoral and unworthy to disregard court decisions and to throw them in the face of a colleague who has dignity and who has morality. i will not say that mr moreno is unworthy and immoral, what i will say is that he has behaved in an unworthy and immoral manner. and what i'll add is that, in his discharge, i want to think that these are not his own ideas, but that he has behaved, not like the errand boy, but that he has had the audacity to act, this time, like the errand boy. what's the point? to unjustifiably discredit and, perhaps, "impossible task" to have a very small gap in a spanish newspaper.
the chairman of the council. - the assassination of former prime minister and main opposition leader benazir bhutto has of course complicated the already complicated situation ahead of the pakistani elections. in addition, it has, of course, had a very negative impact on the process of gradual transition to a more democratic system in pakistan. benazir bhutto, who was murdered, was certainly one of those who could have contributed to progress in areas such as economic development, reducing corruption and greater media freedom. since the introduction of the state of emergency on 3 november last year, we in the european union, including in the european parliament, have stressed the need for stability and called for reconciliation and the restoration of democracy. stability in pakistan is certainly in our strategic interest. it means we support the struggle of the moderate majority of pakistan in their fight against the violent minority of extremists. our interests, the interests of the european union in pakistan, are also closely linked to our priorities for afghanistan and the wider region. they are linked to our fight against terrorism, to our fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, to our fight for respect for human rights, and all of these have been emphasised in our communications to the pakistani authorities on several occasions. president musharraf is expected to arrive in brussels next week. this will be a unique opportunity to get our message across. contact has also been established with other major parties in pakistan, including our international partners. the key message of the council of the european union is thus that the holding of free, fair and open elections in pakistan next month is crucial. the government of pakistan should endeavour to ensure the appropriate political and security conditions for the conduct of such elections. in addition, all parties should respect the decision of the electoral commission to conduct the elections on february 18 with dignity and restraint. we also invite the pakistani authorities to use the extended period until the elections to improve the electoral situation in line with international standards. in particular, they should do everything in their power to prevent electoral fraud, intimidation and to ensure transparency for the free functioning of the media and the release of political prisoners. all this would contribute to a democratic and transparent electoral process under appropriate security conditions. as is well known, the european union will be sending a full election observation mission to pakistan. we hope that the elections will be closely monitored at international level. at the first meeting of the general affairs and external relations council later this month, foreign ministers will take a thorough look at the situation in pakistan and discuss ways in which the eu can help to ensure the successful continuation and strengthening of democratic processes in that country.
member of the commission. − madam president, the assassination of benazir bhutto is nothing less than a national tragedy and came as a shock to all of us. mrs bhutto was, i think for all of us, a symbol of a moderate and liberal pakistan. she enjoyed popular support and she also had the courage to challenge extremism and terrorism. it was perhaps, unfortunately, this very courage for which she ultimately paid with her life. her murder is a loss for the millions of pakistanis who had placed hope in her for democracy and a better future. her death is also a loss for europe and the world. it is unfortunate that disturbing news from pakistan has become all too common, nearly every day. hardly a week passes without a major terrorist attack, and some 700 pakistanis have been killed by suicide bombers over the past six months. i believe we can draw a lesson from mrs bhutto’s death, and that is that pakistan needs a functioning democracy, the rule of law and a strong civil society to address the country’s mounting challenges. you will recall that the country was placed under emergency rule on 3 november. this, of course, greatly undermined confidence in the democratic process in advance of parliamentary elections. emergency rule was then lifted on 15 december, but only after new media restrictions had been imposed and most of the senior judiciary replaced. a number of judges and lawyers remain in detention to this day. they should be released without delay. the outpouring of anger following the murder of mrs bhutto led to civil unrest and ultimately the decision to postpone elections from 8 january to 18 february. these elections should now be held as planned, without any further delay. i think pakistan has to move ahead, and the way forward is to organise democratic and transparent elections which result in a broad and also a credible popular mandate for new governments, both at the federal but also at the provincial level. we should jointly pass this message to president musharraf when he comes to visit europe next week. some players are trying to draw political capital from the bhutto assassination. let us not forget that it is, ultimately, extremist forces who are interested in destabilising pakistan and who are responsible for this despicable act. they should not be allowed to succeed. a credible investigation into the murder can help to calm the waves, but only if everybody keeps a level head. let me add that scotland yard is doing a commendable job in trying to help in this respect. president musharraf spoke of the need for national reconciliation when he addressed the nation on 2 january. i think this is indeed what is required. the opposition has to be taken on board in coping with the current situation. significantly, all major opposition parties will participate in the forthcoming elections. but, regrettably, pakistan has a history of lack of trust in electoral outcomes, which could lead to further political polarisation. naturally, the chances for national reconciliation will greatly improve if president musharraf and the relevant authorities do whatever is necessary to ensure that these elections are held in a fair and transparent manner. because these elections are so important, not only for pakistan but also for the region, i decided to deploy an election observation mission (eom) with the aim of contributing to democracy and stability in the country. if the elections had really been held on 8 january as originally planned, we could only have fielded a limited observation mission. however, in view of the time that is now available until the elections, in consultation with the chief observer, mr michael gahler, who is a member of this parliament, i decided to upgrade the mission to a fully-fledged election observation mission. we are all very much aware of the important role this mission is likely to play in the coming weeks. i continue to be very concerned about the conditions in which these elections are held and the potential for this to lead to a critical statement from the eom if steps are not urgently taken to address these concerns. key problems, including lack of confidence in the election administration, lack of transparency in the results process, and the lack of an effective complaints and appeals process in which stakeholders have confidence, are all present in pakistan. concrete steps could still be taken by the state and the electoral authorities to improve the conditions for elections. i understand that both eu heads of mission in islamabad and the election observation mission on the ground have already outlined the key improvements that are necessary. i think we should make every effort to stress these points with the pakistani authorities, including with the president, when he visits brussels soon. i also remain concerned about the security situation in pakistan, particularly in the light of the assassination of benazir bhutto, but also recent bomb attacks in lahore, karachi and, of course, the north-western territory frontier province. we urge the pakistani authorities to do all they can to provide a securer environment in which the elections can be held, and we will carefully then assess the security situation in the light of the deployment of eu observers. president musharraf has taken off his uniform as promised. i hope that this will result in progress towards stronger civilian institutions and sustainable democracy in pakistan. but it is also important that pakistan continues to make progress in fighting poverty. the commission has, therefore, significantly increased its development cooperation funding to pakistan for the coming years, including in the field of education. and i remain committed to this approach, which i also see as a contribution towards fighting extremism.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. madam president, we are now returning to the situation in pakistan after the debate and the resolution we adopted in december. since then a whole series of events have taken place, as the commission and the council have reminded us. first the lifting of the state of emergency, then the subsequent, albeit incomplete, release - as the commissioner reminded us - of various lawyers, judges, judges, journalists and representatives of civil society, the assassination of the former prime minister mrs bhutto, which has added a considerable dose of instability to the serious process of dissolution that society in this country is going through, the subsequent delay of the electoral process to the next few days in february, and, of course, also the forthcoming visit and appearance before the foreign affairs committee of our parliament, next monday, of the president of pakistan. the first thing i would like to do, madam president, is to express, on behalf of my political group, the group of the european people's party and the european democrats, our strongest condemnation of this savage terrorist attack, which really only reaffirms what the rapporteur of the previous report, mr díaz de mera, told us: that terrorism is a phenomenon that affects us all equally. and before i conclude my speech, madam president, i would like to put two questions to the commission and the council. i am grateful to the commissioner, mrs ferrero, for her efforts in responding positively to parliament's request that an election observation mission be sent to the region in this situation. but she has referred to the conditions in which this process is to take place. does the commissioner think that the levels of violence, fear and instability in this country, which is key to the stability of central asia, not least because it is the only muslim country with nuclear weapons, are the best conditions for this process to take place? and, one last question, madam president. i have to ask you. the commissioner has referred to a credible investigation, and the family, the widow, the son, the pakistan people's party and mrs bhutto herself, in a communication to the foreign office secretary before she died, expressed their wish that this investigation should be carried out by the united nations. does the commission and the council agree that an independent inquiry should be launched to shed light on this terrible murder?
the chairman of the council. − youth will certainly be one of the important themes of the slovenian presidency, especially in the context of the lisbon strategy, the strategy to boost growth and jobs. the slovenian presidency will also pay particular attention to the issue of young people, especially in the context of education and their training for more effective entry into the labour market. this is what i know personally, in more detail, about the more specific initiatives that slovenia is planning during the presidency. on the other hand, there will also be a whole range of activities in the field of health, including the issue of combating alcohol abuse, and i am sure that in this context appropriate attention will also be paid to the protection of young people from alcohol abuse.
the chairman of the council. − the european union is committed to multilateralism, including in the form of the world trade organisation, which we see as an exemplary example of a multilateral organisation. for decades before the wto was formed, europe had been calling for the creation of such an organization, a trade organization. the european union later played a decisive role in the establishment of the world trade organisation in the uruguay round of negotiations. in fact, it has played a key role in this latest round of negotiations, if i may say so, so that there is no doubt about the european union's support for multilateralism in the field of trade. the eu was also instrumental in the adoption of the doha development agenda at the 4th ministerial conference of the world trade organisation in 2001. in the negotiations that followed, the european union deliberately decided to direct all its resources and political will towards concluding the round of negotiations. prior to this round of negotiations or during the negotiations themselves, there were no parallel negotiations on bilateral trade agreements. in october 2006, the european commission presented a report to the european parliament and the council entitled 'a global europe competitive in the world'. this communication addresses the recent changes brought about by the process of globalisation and suggests how the european union, on the basis of the renewed lisbon strategy, could respond to this process, in particular as regards trade policy. on the basis of that communication, the european parliament adopted a resolution and the council adopted conclusions. it is clear from the council's decisions that any future bilateral free trade agreements will be the basis for future multilateral negotiations and, perhaps more importantly, complementary to the world trade organisation platform. following the adoption of these decisions, negotiations on free trade agreements with asean countries, india and korea were opened on the basis of the negotiating directives adopted by the council in spring 2007. these negotiations are still ongoing and each batch will be concluded in due course.
i believe that the slovenian presidency has answered my question correctly, with the clarity that characterizes it, and i thank you for your attention. my supplementary question concerns the relative failure of the lisbon summit with the african countries. it seems that there are african countries that agreed with the european union's proposals and other countries that did not. in view of the disagreements in lisbon, does the presidency of the council believe that it will be necessary to continue with this differential policy? i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
the chairman of the council. - we will remain committed to multilateralism. as far as bilateral agreements are concerned, i would like to emphasise two points. firstly, these are agreements which are complementary to the multilateral platform and secondly, they are agreements which are by their nature of a bridging nature, for the time being until we are able to resolve these issues in a multilateral framework, in the world trade organisation, which remains the preferred framework for the european union to resolve such issues.
mr president, i share the view of the presidency that multilateral agreements should be given priority over bilateral agreements, but in the meantime, the uruguay round and the doha round have been going on for many years, and the world trade organisation has not concluded anything serious, or at least is putting it off too long. in the meantime, the united states, for example, has concluded free trade agreements with various south american countries. i would like to ask you in this connection: what is the council's view of the agreement between the european union and mercosur, which has been awaited for so many years?
the first item on the agenda this morning is the report by mrs ilda figueiredo, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the role of women in industry (2007/2197 (ini)) (a6-0519/2007). it is a report which i understand to be of considerable importance and should also have a significant media impact.
on behalf of the green group, the role of women in industry is clearly conditioned, as in many other cases, by a number of stereotypes, some of them clearly harmful. it is precisely to overcome them that i believe this report, the figueiredo report, is fundamental, important, and that is why it also has the support of our group. there is a lot of evidence to justify this work and the presentation of certain proposals which we hope will be welcomed not only by the community institutions but also by the companies themselves, who are ultimately the ones who must carry them out and implement them. one of the evidences of this is the fact that the average number of women employed in industry in the european union is only 14%. but it must also be borne in mind that 21% of these are women working part-time and that women account for 65% of those working part-time in the industrial sector. this is one of the key aspects for me, a not insignificant element in this debate. the second is that it is precisely women in precarious, parttime, temporary and atypical work who are most affected by wage discrimination or when they want to take maternity leave and that their opportunities for basic, permanent and vocational training are also generally lower. the proposals in this report therefore include, among others, the following: that urgent measures be taken to ensure the full and effective implementation of directive 75/117/eec on the principle of equal pay for men and women in order to combat wage discrimination, something we have been calling for for some time and which we hope to see implemented as soon as possible. secondly, that initiatives, positive actions and human resources policies promoting equality be encouraged; that the states and the commission monitor companies more and better in terms of compliance with codes of conduct and criteria of corporate social responsibility in their daily work; that better working conditions be guaranteed, paying attention to working hours, to compliance with the right of motherhood and paternity - the responsibility here lies with both parties of the couple or the family - ensuring that the worker and the worker have the possibility of returning to their job after the job; to the reconciliation between work and family life. and to achieve this, this report calls for these rights to be established in legislation throughout the european union. and finally, i have to disagree with mr dover on the question of quotas. for some of us, they are a necessary instrument, and that is why we believe it is necessary to emphasize that the european union should follow the norwegian example by implementing measures to increase the number of women on the boards of publicly owned companies to a total of at least 40%, and by imposing by regulation a quota of 40% of women on the boards of public limited liability companies. it is obviously not the solution, but, i repeat, it is a way, it is a means, which is proving useful in other respects and which we would like to see copied in the european union as well.
i also want to congratulate the rapporteur on her work and her open-mindedness, which has enabled us all to translate into concrete measures the general duty of companies to respect the principle of equality between women and men at work. its report includes measures to ensure equal opportunities in access to employment, training and career advancement; measures to respect the labour rights of workers, including - and this is important - protection against sexual harassment; and measures to promote the reconciliation of personal, family and work life. but perhaps the most novel, the most interesting contributions are, on the one hand, the inclusion of power-sharing measures, which could ensure, for example, a balanced presence of women and men on company boards and in all decision-making positions in line with the new law passed in my country, spain. and, on the other hand, the recommendation that each company implement its own negotiated equality plan. it is therefore an important report for a sector which is strategic for the european union.
madam president, i think that the commissioner and all of us who have spoken today agree on the importance and the political and social impact of these forums, which are being attended by an increasing number of people. i think we should therefore congratulate ourselves on the commitment we are making in europe. but i think that at the same time we should take advantage of the political opportunity that we have at the moment, as mrs trautmann said, to reflect on the new telecommunications package. and in that spirit i think that both the commission and parliament must work to provide not only european citizens with access to the best digital services, but we must also lead, i think, the extension of that information society as a social good for those countries which also need european cooperation and leadership. in that line, i think it's very important what was pointed out here, to work on common issues like sensitivity, freedom of expression online and protection, which i think are priorities. i think it is essential at this stage, and i conclude, madam president, that we make the global compatible with the local, i think it is a priority, and in this respect the commitment reflected in the resolution we are going to adopt today is relevant and i hope that it will be the stimulus for the commission to continue to include these priorities in its political agenda.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, which was agreed with the groups' contributions. it's a matter of unforgivable cooperation against crime. however, i would point out, as my colleagues fava and moreno did, that the high aims of the resolution are not compatible with the recalcitrant attitude of the rapporteur, mr díaz de mera, spanish police chief on 11 march 2004, who refused to cooperate with the court which gave an exemplary judgment on the greatest attack that took place in europe. moreover, the rapporteur is one of the main propagators or necessary collaborators of the shameful theory that it was not islamist cells but eta terrorism that was responsible for that massacre. díaz de mera and other self-styled 'black pawns' wanted to confuse international public opinion and, although their behaviour has not been finally prosecuted as a crime (it was only sanctioned and given a serious warning by the court), it deserves to be known in this parliament. your personal disqualifications reveal your lack of argument. and finally, to regret that díaz de mera did not have the dignity of his colleague jaime mayor, who removed his name from the terrorism report.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the olympic games should be seen, both by the chinese authorities and by the rest of the world, as an opportunity for china to change its image in the world, an image particularly affected by the continuing violations of human rights, of which very different groups are victims and also for very different reasons. the detection of hu jia, among many others, makes it clear that china is not taking this opportunity as it should. and it is, once again, a reminder to those who saw in china a country prepared and open enough to host an event of an international character and supposedly solidarity, as an olympic games should be. china has still time to change this image, but it needs to take matters such as respect for freedom of expression and association more seriously and abandon its obsession with arresting, punishing and convicting its citizens who are accused of a crime that is certainly difficult to argue with, such as inciting subversion of state power.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. it is no less true that the 1998 rome statute of the international criminal court provides in articles 7 and 8 that rape, sexual slavery, forced prostitution, forced pregnancy, forced sterilisation or any other form of sexual violence are to be treated as crimes against humanity and war crimes, and are to be treated and prosecuted on the same footing as torture or serious war crimes, whether or not these crimes are committed during an armed conflict. the war in the democratic republic of congo shows how much this is a subject which deserves much greater attention than has been given to it to date. tens of thousands of rape and sexual assault complaints are reported annually in that region. many of these also take place in camps for displaced persons or refugees and are often committed by government forces, rebel groups or other forces. in this connection, i consider it very important that this parliament not only condemns these practices but also urges the authorities of the democratic republic of congo to immediately stop, investigate, prosecute and condemn these practices and to ensure the protection of victims, witnesses and relatives. we must also remind our own institutions that un security council resolution 1325 emphasises the responsibility of member states to end impunity and to prosecute those responsible for crimes against humanity and war crimes, including those relating to sexual violence or other specific violence against women.
the report by mr killilea, which i am sure will be very useful to the house, is a report which is very much in line with the spirit of the report. my colleagues have already described what is happening there and i will not repeat it. we must not just condemn it because we can be the voice crying out in the wilderness: we must do something to stop it. and what we can do is put pressure on the congolese government because it's not just the rebels, it's also their armed forces that are committing these kinds of atrocities designed to humiliate women and undermine the moral foundations of the society in which they live. we must get the united nations and the european union to declare sexual violence a crime against humanity. we must ask the commission to allocate development aid funds to the congo, primarily and as a matter of priority, to help these victims: legal, social and medical aid. we must make it a priority for the un personnel stationed there to defend these victims and to find those responsible, and to do that we must extend the mandate of monuc to be more directly linked to the fight against these kinds of events. and finally, we must demand that those taking part in the kivu conference produce concrete results that will make it possible to demand justice and to demand accountability, because if after all that has happened it turns out that the rapists end up unpunished in the uniform of the official army of the republic of congo, the victims will be humiliated twice, the first time when they suffered the rape and the second time when they saw that it went unpunished. that is what we can and must do. i hope that the commission will take note and redirect the development aid funds we are allocating to the congo, as i have asked, towards helping the victims and preventing this savage slaughter against the dignity of women from continuing.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are countries with which we have certain privileged relations, such as those which are part of the european neighbourhood policy, with whom we must be particularly clear and remind them that business can and must never be dissociated from respect for human rights, here and there. the situation in egypt warrants reflection and the relations between that country and the european union also force this. it is therefore more than legitimate to denounce, as we do in this resolution, the persecution of certain non-governmental organizations, especially human rights organizations, which is taking place in egypt at the moment, and to support the campaign for freedom of association which various social movements are promoting in that country.
madam president, the programme which the commission is proposing to us, in respect of the objectives of ensuring our credibility, namely to demand from each one according to his real possibilities, to take up this challenge and turn it into an opportunity to make ourselves more competitive, to propose it in such a way that, in a cooperative way, we can all do it at international level and not waste a single minute, is certainly a very hopeful programme and full of exciting challenges. among others, the challenge of proposing alternative energy sources to nuclear energy has been mentioned - and i agree with this. as regards the transport sector, i think it is a sector which presents a greater challenge and i would therefore ask the commission to use the instruments which are on the table at the moment: the logistics action plan. logistics, which is becoming a competitive factor at the moment, should be one of the instruments for applying intelligence to mobility and for being able to provide good solutions for reducing emissions. as for the galileo project, which has so far been little developed, because we did not see its full potential, i believe that applications to reduce emissions should be another challenge. finally, the plan on urban transport is also, i believe, an open possibility at this moment.
high representative for the common foreign and security policy. − mr president, i have listened with great attention to the representatives from the political groups of the european parliament. i agree with most of what has been said today. therefore, i have not much to say about that. however, let me make some comments on the three main issues that i think we have to discuss today in relation to iran. i should like to say once again that it is not a contradiction to say that iran is a very important country that has a vibrant society – potentially – and that we have to seek relations with it. the fact is that it is very difficult to do that at the moment. we have to keep trying to improve relations with such an important country as iran. again, we must insist that it is not doing enough to improve relations with us. on the three main issues i have spoken about – human rights, regional issues and the nuclear issue – it is very difficult to make progress in the negotiations. in one area it is impossible to make progress because in 2006 it dropped completely out of the negotiations. the human rights dialogue was stopped – it was not stopped by us but by iran. let me say a word on that. i agree, as i said before, with most of the remarks that have been made today on the human rights issue, which is linked, as many members have said, to the elections that will take place very soon in march. it will be very important to see how the public – the citizens of iran – behave in this election. but it is very important that the candidates who have been put forward are allowed to stand in the election. as you know, more than 30% of those candidates have not even been allowed to stand. many of them, i would say, are the ‘modern forces’, if i can use that term, in iran. the second big issue is regional. there have not been many comments made here about that, but it is very important that iran becomes a constructive player and not a ‘nuisance’ in the lives of the people of the middle east and in the establishment of peace in the middle east, as we understand the development of the peace process in the middle east. there are two main points on the agenda. firstly, the middle east peace process, on which we fundamentally differ. we believe in a two-state solution, and they do not. we have to see how we can bring iran to agree to that process, which has been agreed by all the arab countries in the region, and, as has been proven not long ago, not by iran. the second point is lebanon. we do not have lebanon on the agenda today, but lebanon is always on the agenda – even if not formally. the problems in lebanon are in our minds and hearts. we know that is a problem on which iran should be much more constructive. the third issue i should like to mention, and which we have discussed on other occasions, is the nuclear issue. firstly, i should like to thank ms beer, because i talked to her before the committee went to iran and we had a very good exchange of views, which was very well coordinated. cooperation with the agency is fundamental. we have been pushing for that all along and we would very much like to see that cooperation producing fruit. however, that is not enough. we should be resolving the ‘outstanding issues’. these issues, as you know, belong to the past. why are they outstanding? because they have never been explained, and that is the difference with some of the other countries that have been mentioned. iran is a signatory to the non-proliferation treaty; it has obligations and it has not complied with those obligations. at the moment there is a discussion with dr el baradei and the people in charge of the nuclear dossier to see whether these ‘outstanding issues’ can be resolved. we are now in the year 2008, and some of those issues go back to 2003, 2004 and 2005. that was the first thing i wanted to say, and the second thing, which is very important, is that we are continuing to support the dual-track approach. we want negotiations and we also want to follow the route to new york – together, in parallel. we would like to see how this can progress. we do not want to punish the people of iran. we want them to come back to the negotiating table with a moral purpose. to give you an example: as you know, last tuesday we met in berlin. on wednesday i was here in brussels having dinner with dr jalili, the day after we had been talking about new york and how to move the process forward in new york, i did not want to give the impression that we were doing something that we would not communicate directly. to prove that we would continue with the dialogue, i met him, had dinner with him and explained that to him. therefore, in that sense, rest assured that we are making every effort to keep the dialogue channel open and not only open but productively open. i do not have to tell you that sometimes you do not get the answer to the question. you hold debates here and you know that sometimes, perhaps because of a problem with translation, you do not get the answer to the question – you get answers to other things but not the question. you know that – you have had that experience – but we have to keep on trying, keep on trying and keep on trying – and we will! on the intelligence report that has been mentioned: that is not our responsibility but the responsibility of the united nations. but, in any case, if you read it – when it becomes public – the most important things are public, it states very clearly that in 2003 they stopped a part of the nuclear weaponisation. now weaponisation has three elements. first, and most important, it is necessary to have enriched uranium – if you do not have enriched uranium you will never have the possibility of a military nuclear programme. second, you need a missile to launch, and, third, you need the actual detonator of the bomb. the second stage is where they have stopped and that is what happened in 2003. that is one part. the second part is the missile and you know that the technology on missiles is moving rapidly. we are concerned. this is not one of the key issues but it is an issue. now we have a range of 1 300 km, which is no little matter. the third thing is enriched material, which is in breach and is continuing to be produced. that is the core of the problem: we have to see how we can get an agreement on this. let me repeat: a nuclear-powered plant to produce energy – you may like it or not, but that is not the issue being debated today – requires, as you know, at least seven or eight years from the moment the contract is signed to the moment the power plant is operational. there is no contract whatsoever between iran and anybody who can produce a nuclear-powered plant to produce energy – kilowatts – none except for the russian one. as you know the russian contract has a clause that states, firstly, enriched uranium will be provided by russia and, secondly, that the burned material – that means enriched plutonium or whatever is at the end of process – will be taken to russia, so they will not need to have enriched uranium because it is provided. secondly, if they continue enriching, the question is why? – because they do not have anywhere to put it, no other power plant. so this is a question that it is fair to ask and it is difficult to get an answer. this is the only response to this question that i can give you, because it is something that is under your control and that of the leaders and citizens of the european union. i have tried to give you an honest account of our interpretation of the situation, the problems and the three main issues that we have to be concerned about as europeans. i say again that we have great respect for the country – we have a profound respect for iran – and we would like very much to engage with it and also see them move in that direction.
mr president, tomorrow the european parliament is going to adopt a resolution on iran which our political group will be supporting. it is no coincidence that the first part of that resolution is on the human rights situation. last week there was a very unsatisfactory appearance by mr jalili in our committee on foreign affairs, who did not answer any of the questions put to him about human rights, torture, public executions, the purchase of north korean missiles and soviet torpedoes capable of carrying nuclear warheads. mr solana, we have heard that you are waiting for the answers to the questions you put to mr jalili; commissioner ferrero has told us the same, and we are still waiting for the answers to the questions we put to you. it is not enough, therefore, to lament that they have not suspended their nuclear programme, in defiance of the appeal of the international community and three united nations resolutions. as mr solana has just told us, the international community is convinced that they are enriching uranium for a programme of purposes which are not peaceful. it is therefore not enough, mr president, to say in the draft resolution that we will not proceed on the road to a cooperation or association agreement with iran until there is substantial progress on human rights and objective guarantees that will give us clear assurances that we are not making progress on the road to enrichment of uranium for peaceful purposes. so, mr high representative, i would ask you: do you think that the fourth resolution which the united nations security council is going to produce on the basis of the vienna meeting, where the permanent members of the security council plus germany met, is going to be enough for iran to heed the call of the international community? what, mr solana, should be the content of that un resolution to meet that challenge and to mitigate the threat to international peace and security posed by iran's uranium enrichment programme?
high representative of the union for the cfsp. - thank you, mr president, for allowing me to speak in this important debate which we are about to begin. mr president, we are opening a debate on the dramatic events of the last few weeks and days: the question of gaza, the question of the borders between gaza and egypt and the border crossings between gaza and israel. the result of what we have seen in the last few days is dramatic: there is a very deep deterioration in the humanitarian situation and, even as regards security, the situation is worsening considerably. i think this debate today should be a debate about how we contribute to solving the problems. we have had many discussions in this house on the problems of the past, and i think that today we should see whether we are able to contribute from the european union to solving this very important problem (because it will also have consequences for the development of the annapolis conference and the peace process). i would like to remind you once again that we have been consistent - we, the european union - in calling for the border crossing points to be opened and for the free movement - with guarantees of safety - of people and goods, not only humanitarian aid but also goods which would help the economic development of the region and, in particular, of the west bank and gaza. without the three fundamental elements - political development, economic development and changes in the reality on the ground - it will be very difficult for us to make progress. we must make progress in all three areas, and we must make progress in a convergent way. mr president, what can we europeans do? since the days when the new situation began we have been in constant contact with all the key players. as you know, there was an important meeting of the arab league on sunday, at which all the problems were raised and an attempt was made to formulate a solution, a solution which is not very far from what prime minister fayad told us at the european council several weeks ago and which he repeated again on sunday at the arab league summit or at the arab league ministerial meeting: we must find a way of regaining control of the borders, so that the palestinian authority can take responsibility for them. if that were the case, i think the european union should re-examine the rafah issue in the same terms as we did in 2005. as you know, we are not physically present now; we are available to deploy as soon as we are told, but right now we are not present; we are not present at the border since gaza began to be controlled by hamas, because they did not let us. i think what we should do is to act in accordance with the debate that took place in the european council on monday and with the council resolutions, because i think the resolutions of monday are very good resolutions and have given a sense of direction that is welcomed by all: by egypt, by the palestinians and by israel. so i think we are on the right track. what we have to do is to see how we can make this path which we have started in accordance with the council resolutions a reality as soon as possible. the suffering of the people is terrible; so is the suffering of the population of southern israel, which is also subject to the fire of rockets that are launched from the northern part of gaza, launched at its own citizens, and which really make stability impossible. if we made a package with all these issues - including also the liberation of al-haram ash-sharif, which has to be included if we want to stabilize the situation - we could perhaps cooperate - and i would very much like to do it again - so that this situation is resolved. as i said, i'm in constant contact with the most important players. i will go to egypt as soon as the working sessions that the palestinians are having with the egyptians and that have started today are over. i shall be there tomorrow or the day after tomorrow to participate and to contribute, from the point of view of the european union, what we can offer. i honestly believe that this would be the best solution: to be able to return to a more complete situation in which there is control of the borders by the palestinian authority and in which there is free movement of goods and people, not only humanitarian aid but also economic development, trade, which is necessary to be able to make real progress. ladies and gentlemen, i think we are facing a very difficult situation, because, as i said at the beginning, in the middle east everything is connected. if we are not able to make progress in resolving this problem in gaza, the peace process will also be in difficulty. so we have a great responsibility; be aware of what we have at this moment in front of us, that on our part - on the part of the commissioner and on my part - we are going to do everything possible to give the remaining hours we have these weeks to see if we can help find the solution on behalf of the european union. mr president, i have little more to add than to express my willingness to contribute to this end and to count on your support in doing so.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think that, when we were in annapolis, there was a moment of hope. i always spoke of cautious optimism, knowing how difficult it would be to launch the bilateral negotiations between prime minister olmert and president abbas, and then we had what i would call a very successful pledging conference in paris, where we saw so much support that we thought there was now real new momentum. but at the same time we always knew that this new momentum could derail at any moment. i think the situation in the gaza and the large amount of violence that we have seen in january is one of those very difficult situations, among many other things – including the rocket and mortar attacks that have injured the israeli civilian population – that could make the whole process derail. of course, we understand the obligation of the state of israel to defend its citizens. the israeli military reaction has caused many deaths and injuries amongst the gaza palestinians. we have always said that civilian enclosure measures will not be feasible and have always spoken out for freedom of access and movement. these have taken a heavy toll on the gaza civilian population. so it is no wonder that things went excessively far when people broke through the various fences and walls between egypt and gaza. the question now – and i completely support javier solana in this – is: what can we do in order to really make a difference again? we had the eu bam for rafah there for a long time, but unfortunately in recent months they have not been able to do anything, so perhaps there is a chance for us europeans to take this up again and to try to reach some sort of solution. i think it is good that javier solana is going to egypt to start asking what we can do and perhaps to bring all the different parties together, which is very complicated. but i think it is also good to see that salem fayed has for some time been prepared to bring in the palestinian authority in order to control the borders, because this is also important. in the end, it is their own responsibility. in order to make that possible, i think that the european union might again be a facilitating factor. maybe we will not even be mediators there but facilitators. we had the first follow-up meeting in paris very recently where bernard kouchner, the norwegian foreign minister and also tony blair met. i am also one of the co-chairs of this conference. we tried to see what could be done on the ground in order to make the situation move forward, not to have only negative experiences. we all decided to go for the so-called quick start projects – on security infrastructure, on the one hand, and on the other hand, on schools in particular, because this is an area where everybody can see, feel and maybe even smell that there is hope, that we want to instil hope, and that freedom of access and movement is indeed one of the necessary conditions, because otherwise economic development will not be able to take off. therefore, we are in full support of this and are now trying to follow up this strategy.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, if i had to define in one word what we have seen in recent days on the southern border of the gaza strip, it would be 'despair'. two years ago, elections were held in palestine. several colleagues in this parliament - mrs de keyser, mr mcmillan-scott and others - were present at that election process and today, two years later, we see the palestinian cause fragmented and a scenario of desolation, despondency and despair, which proves that the consolidation of a democracy does not only mean exercising the right to vote, but that representative institutions, a legitimate division of powers and respect for human rights, starting with the right to life, are needed. the international community implored hamas to renounce violence. they didn't want to do that and that's why they're still on the european union's list of terrorist organizations. it is clear that on the other hand things have not been done right either: israel has welcomed the division of the palestinian cause, has continued with the settlement policy, has exercised indiscriminate repression and, on the other hand, has practiced a savage blockade that has only served to favour the hamas organization. what can we do? i think mr solana has described it perfectly: supporting the efforts of the high representative, supporting the orientation of the naples conference through the quartet and the moderate arab countries and, above all, a policy for which i think we should express our appreciation to the commission and to commissioner ferrero-waldner, namely, a policy which puts the human being at the centre of the european union's action, that human being who suffers, who suffers, who is in anguish and who dies - unfortunately, in my opinion - in a useless way, for a long time, in the middle east.
mr president, some very specific questions: how can we return to the eubam mission at the rafah border, with the previous situation of insecurity? we are talking about an unarmed european body! if there's a single shot fired, if there's the slightest situation of insecurity, will all the police return to their hotel in ashkelon? how can we negotiate an agreement with the palestinians, with egypt and with israel to change that situation? otherwise, it will be of little use to go back - as mrs ferrero-waldner has said - to the situation before. we need to have a situation that is safe from insecurity factors. then how can we move towards peace without considering the situation in gaza? the naples process has ignored the situation in gaza and i think that is impossible: it is impossible for there to be a palestinian authority tolerating the situation of insecurity in gaza without there being peace. finally, i would like to ask about the medium-term solutions for supplying water and energy to gaza. could not solutions be found in the area of the gaza-egypt border, as the possibility of installing desalination plants and power generation has been raised?
the chairman of the council. - let me briefly comment on some of the points you have made in this very interesting debate. it was said last time that we're not getting results. the presidency and the president of the council have a different view. he's on the move. we're coming up on results. after all, the bali conference and agreement, which brought together both the underdeveloped and the most developed countries, is actually a great success. but the success will be complete only in copenhagen. that is why the next two years are such an important period for us. i would also like to express my support for the resolution that the european parliament is adopting tomorrow. we see it as ambitious, thorough and we see it as additional support for reaching an agreement after 2012. the presidency also supports your assessment that the european union delegation in bali was a very successful one. she was competent, she was united, she was very dynamic. and finally, it was credible, which is very, very important for the european union. we can be very proud of the european union and the role it played in bali. but most of all, it's consistent. it was said that the european union was a pioneer in the development of new technologies. it may also be a response to some of the legitimate fears or concerns that are also being expressed within the member states of the european union about the new energy and climate package that the european commission so successfully presented last week. our answer is that it is also an opportunity for new jobs, for new eco-innovations, and does not mean fears in terms of economic development. we agree that this is not just a political issue, but also an economic one. or we can be even more ambitious. tackling climate change is becoming a de facto and major story in european politics. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. the media can play a very, very important role here. the package adopted by the european commission last week is the result of a professional approach. it is built on the principles of fairness and solidarity and we expect the european parliament, which has a very important role in the adoption of this package, to play its part in a very dynamic way. someone asked why it was necessary to go to bali, why it was necessary to use unsustainable forms of transport. you can't get to bali without using different means of transportation. but our answer is that this destination was well chosen. why would you do that? because she was... indonesia is a developing country. and one of the key moments for the bali agreement was that developing countries joined this global agreement. and in bali, indonesia, such an agreement was easier to reach than perhaps any other destination on our planet. i'll conclude with a question related to 20/20/20, as mentioned. will these goals be realized? the credibility of the european union stands or falls with the achievement of these objectives. last but not least, because at last spring's council, the eu's heads of state or government committed themselves to the 20/20/20 path. the presidency is convinced and willing to do everything to make these objectives a reality.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to thank the work done in bali by the representatives of both the commission and parliament. i am going to take a more eurocentric, more eurocentric perspective in dealing with this problem and its derivatives in the following sense: i would start by saying, as has been said in some way, that every need contains an opportunity. if the need is greater, the opportunity is even greater. what are we up against? we are faced with two needs: first, to combat the effects of climate change, which are usually caused by the development and growth of mankind; and second, to solve the problems of supplying traditional energies, the use of which, either because they are scarce or because they are in complicated geopolitical zones, is always uncertain. what's the chance? the opportunity is to develop efficient energy sources which will enable us to remain competitive, clean energy sources which do not pollute, and also to ensure supply, because these are new sources of energy. what's the problem? in my view, we are witnessing a lack of leadership on the part of the european institutions in tackling these problems, a lack of leadership on the part of the commission and also on the part of parliament. for a very simple reason: because we are not being able to say that clean energy is energy that is made up of renewable energy and also nuclear energy. it's not being done, it's not being thought about, and leadership is about coming up with solutions, even if they're difficult to discuss at a given moment. are we going to find ourselves in the paradoxical situation that china, india and other emerging economies are going to have cleaner energy by developing nuclear and, moreover, are going to be able to compete on lower wages? it would be really for the record, commissioner. i hope that parliament and the commission will be able to deal with the issue of nuclear energy, which is constantly being ignored and turned away from, with calmness but also with determination.
madam president, i generally support the rapporteur's report as an expression of the not-new concern about the immobility of the common fisheries policy in tackling problems embedded in our fisheries management system, of which discards are just one example. i particularly agree with the paragraphs which call for the reduction and progressive elimination of discards and unwanted catches to be adopted fishery by fishery and for a possible ban to be implemented only when it is shown that other alternatives do not work, as has been expressed by the council and all the regional advisory committees. we cannot adopt any other approach and we cannot move towards a total and general ban on discards within a management system which encourages them, both because of the rigid system of tacs and quotas in force and because of the absence of appropriate technical measures, a fundamental pillar to avoid bycatch and for whose review and adaptation to the atlantic we have been waiting for years. what i cannot accept, madam president, is amendment no 10, which would allow the creation of a parallel fisheries market based on discarded and, by definition, illegal fish. i think we must stand firm in defence of the principle of non-marketing of waste, as stated in paragraph 32 of the report and as decided by countries with more tradition in this field, such as norway. the incentives to avoid discarding should be of a different kind: incentives to minimise discarding, for example through the use of more selective craft. the best juvenile is the one that remains alive in the sea and grows to serve as food for men or other fish, not the one that is discarded to be traded in the manufacture of fish meal.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr schlyter for his work and i am particularly pleased that quite a few of the amendments i tabled have been incorporated into the text of the report we are debating today. i am referring in particular to those which make it clear that discards are not only due to the use of a particular fishing gear but also to the nature of the fishery concerned, as in the case of european fisheries, which are all multi-specific and where the risk of discards is greater. any measure taken must therefore be tailored to the individual case. i am also grateful to my amendments for showing in the report that discards are due to a whole range of factors, including overfishing, but also the current approach to tacs, which forces fishermen to discard fish for which no quota is available, so measures must be taken to prevent the compulsory discards of legal sized species that are inevitably caught because of the absence of a quota for those species. that said, i would like to tell mr schlyter to be careful, because after the harangue he has just launched in his speech against the fishermen and this sacrificed and age-old trade which is fishing, i am no longer quite sure what we are doing here or whether mr schlyter is going to leave the commissioner, the members of the fisheries committee and the fishermen unemployed (this is a joke, madam president).
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european regional development fund is a very important step forward in the development of the european union's regional policy. that is why no one should be surprised at the initiative of this debate, which was unanimously requested by the political groups and which i am introducing on behalf of the committee on regional policy. i am grateful to the commissioner for being here and i am sorry that the council was not able to join us in a debate which affects it very directly. the experience gained over the years of implementation of the interreg programmes shows that the lack of an initiative structure with a legal personality has weakened their effectiveness and, in order to overcome the obstacles which hamper territorial cooperation, we welcome the commission's proposal to create cooperation instruments with a legal personality: the european territorial cooperation groups. in a united europe of states and citizens, as proclaimed by the treaty of lisbon, the regions find their greatest expression in these entities. it is true that during the council discussions a number of member states have already expressed reservations about the usefulness of european territorial cooperation groups. it is possible to argue whether the nature and content of the regulation adopted is too vague, whether it has introduced a certain legal uncertainty by making its application too often subject to national law. some might argue that some member states are faced with a complex situation in terms of their level of decentralisation, which forces them to define strategies in relation to territorial cooperation. however, it should be remembered that regulation 1082/2006 was adopted in july 2006, one year after it was unanimously adopted by the european parliament on a proposal from our colleague jan olbrycht, and that it has been compulsory in all member states since 1 august 2007. the member states therefore had six months to make the necessary legislative adjustments. however, according to the information available - and the commissioner will correct me if i am wrong - there are less than ten member states which have taken the necessary measures to make the regulation fully effective at this time. as is well known, the european commission has the duty and responsibility to ensure the effective application of european legislation and to intervene to remove obstacles which may prevent such application. the informal explanations that the principle of subsidiarity would prevent action against non-compliant states would be inadmissible, since if it were accepted, member states could delay or not apply community legislation which they considered inadequate or liable to be challenged. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in the member states. what measures has the european commission taken or intends to take, in particular the initiation of an infringement procedure before the european court of justice, to ensure compliance with the regulation by all member states and to avoid putting at risk the funds allocated by the failure of some member states to comply with the rules laid down?
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, from the outset the interreg initiative was the seed of a truly polycentric conception of the european area through crossborder, transnational and interregional cooperation. the creation of this new legal instrument, the egtc, was born out of the realization of the difficulties encountered in undertaking this type of action, due to the existence of different systems and different procedures. the solution reached by the european parliament, after almost two years of legislative work, allowed - and allows - public authorities and public bodies to register as an entity with legal personality recognised throughout the union. member states were already mentioned obliged to adopt a whole series of provisions before 1 august 2007. given the obvious delay, the committee of the regions convened a seminar last july to analyse the situation, to which i was invited as rapporteur, and at that seminar, and in the interests of the european parliament's collaboration in the search for a solution, i undertook to put a question, a question which mrs krehl signed with me and which was the seed of this debate we are having today. i am proud to say, madam commissioner, that my country, spain, and my region, galicia, together with the northern region of portugal, are pioneers and a model for other european regions to follow. i would therefore like to ask you: how can the european parliament work with the commission to encourage those countries which have not yet done so to adapt their national legislation and to be able to sign and set up such territorial groupings?
mr president, commissioner, the european grouping of territorial cooperation is a new tool for strengthening economic and social cohesion in the union. it is an advanced structured cooperation instrument with legal personality which will be able to access community funding and resources from other sources. the conclusion of the 23rd portuguese-spanish summit in braga ten days ago was a decisive milestone. both countries are among the six which have already adopted the necessary provisions for the effective implementation of the european regulation of july 2006. the xunta de galicia and the authorities of the northern region of portugal, which had completed the draft convention and statutes in november 2006, will soon form a grouping of 6 400 000 inhabitants based in vigo. they will be leaders in the launch of a euro-region with governing bodies and driving ambitious and exemplary european cooperation of a new generation. their efforts deserve the recognition of the european parliament.
mr president, i think that mr deprez has correctly identified the problem and the vice-president, mr frattini, has given the solution to that problem. we are facing a transitional year, but during that transitional year, to which we must add six months until the end of the legislature, we are faced with mature decisions which cannot be abandoned. so it seems to me that the interinstitutional agreement is an absolutely necessary agreement to be able to harmonize the mature initiatives with the codecision that we so much need and want. that is why, mr president, i think that the importance of initiatives such as those in the area of freedom, security and justice - and let us bear in mind that one third of the commission's 26 strategic proposals are in the area of freedom, security and justice - places a huge responsibility on us in dealing with the legislative projects we have in progress. the evaluation of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders, which has been so often called for, deserves our full attention, as do all the problems relating to migration, both legal and illegal. civil and criminal justice for better services to citizens, europol, a european agency revised in the new framework of the constitutional treaty - and i do not want to forget, mr president, data protection in the third pillar - all of this deserves the area of freedom, security and justice to be harmonized in its methods and in its timing.
mr president, i want to focus on something that may seem minor, but which has seriously worsened throughout 2007 and which affects millions of people: security at european airports. the european commission and the council have allowed and are allowing the prevention of terrorism at airports to be managed as if it were transport policy. freedoms and rights are being restricted by procedures designed to meet the logistical and technical requirements of airplanes and trains. as a result, the citizen is being left without guarantees against abuse and limitations of rights are being approved without any examination of proportionality or any assessment of their effectiveness. men and women sometimes treated like cattle at checkpoints by security officers who are unaware of the rules they apply or the exceptions to them, because the rules have been declared secret. i ask the commission - and mr frattini in particular - to recover its authority in this matter, and i ask the council to examine it seriously. we have turned airports into zones under a state of emergency where the law does not apply and the most basic guarantees do not apply, but only police authority without any controls.
we now enter into this practice that the english call "catch the eye". anyway, since i am also the vice president responsible for multilingualism issues, i will try to talk to the interpreters - my friends interpreters and friends interpreters - to see how this "catch the eye" can be translated into other languages. let us say at once that these are those who wish to speak and to whom the president grants the use of the word 'eye'. i now give the floor to mr cavada, who will surely have a lot to say on this subject.
mr president, i should first like to ask you to forgive me for this disruption in the agenda, or more precisely in the proceedings, a train breakdown between paris and brussels almost got me out of europe but that is fixed, thank you. every year we debate the progress made in building the area of freedom, security and justice. but this debate is now of much greater importance and that is why i would like to set out the reasons why the libe committee tabled these two oral questions to the council and the commission respectively and why it urged the representatives of these institutions to give clear answers to the requests we are making. the debate is important because, with the signing of the lisbon treaty last december and its entry into force on 1 january 2009, the policies relating to fundamental rights and the implementation of the area of freedom, security and justice will and must undergo substantial changes, changes which parliament - as you know, ladies and gentlemen - has been calling for for several years now. among these i would mention the end of the pillar structure which allows the community to take over most of the procedures of the current third pillar, the generalization of qualified majority voting, the extension of the jurisdiction of the court of justice and the strengthening of the role of parliament as co-legislator, and finally the charter of fundamental rights which becomes binding. to take full advantage of the potential offered by this new treaty, we need to prepare now a common interinstitutional strategy to list the proposals, which could be negotiated at political level in 2008 and formally adopted in the period january to may 2008/2009. in conclusion, mr president, i would say that such a strategy would allow us not to have to constantly amend, as soon as the new treaty enters into force, proposals which have just been adopted and would also guarantee full judicial review by the court of justice and the full involvement of parliament in the definition of policies which touch on the very heart of the rights of citizens. as for the question you asked me, i'll catch my eye and think about helping you in my humble way.
the chairman of the council. - thank you also for all the questions you have asked here today. unfortunately, there is not enough time to answer all the questions in detail. i'm going to try to touch on some of the most important issues that we've faced here today. first of all, i would like to refer to mr weber's question, which was raised in connection with sis ii. i would like to make it very clear that we in the council have concluded that the security of the migration from 'sis i for all' to sis ii is of the utmost importance, that we cannot afford to lose data in any way or to jeopardise the operation of the system in any way, and that is why we have decided to move gradually from one system to another, which of course means developing a converter for this and of course extending the timeframe for the operational establishment of sis ii somewhat. i think it's a very good decision, because ensuring the security of the data and of course the better quality of the data that we'll have with the new system is the most important, the most important point in setting up this system. i would also like to touch on a question which has been raised by several members, namely cooperation between the council, the commission and the european parliament. i think that close cooperation is essential on most issues. we need, of course, some political consensus, we need interrelations to establish and ensure an appropriate level of security and human rights security, so to speak. we need a real, balanced approach and here, of course, the european parliament plays a very, very important role, so that i find it very difficult to imagine that we could operate without close cooperation with parliament. of course, we must also be clear that the treaty of lisbon is not yet in force. we're in the process of ratifying. this process is relatively delicate, more in some countries and perhaps less in others, but we must of course work and act in such a way that we do not jeopardise the ratification procedures in any member state of the european union. i therefore think that it would be wise, in our cooperation in the year before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, to divide the acts, the legal acts under consideration, into two groups: one group is made up of those acts which have been practically completed and on which parliament has already given its opinion and which are practically or fully completed or in the final stages of completion, and of course those acts which are being opened or have recently been opened and which necessarily require close, regular cooperation with parliament. i think that in this way we will be able to find a suitable form of cooperation, so that we can ensure sufficient safety and, of course, also sufficient efficiency and, of course, make some kind of exercise for work in the future. i would like to touch briefly on the return directive and frontex, in two sentences. the return directive: the technical talks and negotiations are continuing during the slovenian presidency and we have already agreed on political negotiations, so i hope we will find the appropriate political compromise that we need. i'm still hoping we'll get him, and we've already been in touch with the reporter, mr. weber, so i think things are going well. as for frontex, only that there is an evaluation of frontex's performance, that the presidency envisages an in-depth discussion at ministerial level at the conference in early march, where we will of course talk about frontex, about the future of frontex and of course also evaluate its work to date. after this discussion, we will of course be able to report to parliament in more detail.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the debate this morning has shown a common willingness on the part of the three institutions to work together. so it's not just the method of work that's important, but the merit. so the wish expressed at the beginning by president deprez, which was also supported in principle by the president of the council and which i personally agree with, is the right working method to follow. as i said at the beginning, the idea of working within the council with a dimension not limited to six months has proved to be a successful idea. we shall also be doing so here, because i believe that some of the priorities have also emerged from the speeches. it is clear to everyone that the work towards the completion of the sis ii of the new generation of the sis system cannot be slowed down. we must move forward and, beyond a question of time, we are concerned that the experimental exercise of this new system will prove to be a real added value for the security of our external borders. i would not then speak of delay, but of the need on the part of the member states - a need which i share - for a thorough experimentation to see how that system works and can work even better, before it actually gets off the ground. the timetables we have discussed with the presidency, and which we will be formalizing at the february council of ministers in a few weeks' time, are timetables which demonstrate how we are working towards the added value of the new generation of sis and this is clearly a priority. many spoke of the evaluation of the effectiveness of security measures, particularly anti-terrorism. it is a request from this parliament which i accepted a year ago. we have an exercise going on today. in december all member states received a detailed questionnaire on the results of the anti-terrorism measures they had implemented. i can say, not only to baroness ludford but to all of you, that by mid-april i will be able to publish the full results of this analysis involving 27 member states. i believe that this is another priority subject of discussion, one which this parliament has always been interested in. some have spoken of procedural guarantees. you know that the agreement was not reached because some member states have raised insurmountable problems, but now the slovenian presidency has raised a subject which i think could be treated as a priority: the question of the future of the european union. the subject of judgments in absentia. this is one of the aspects of procedural guarantees. it's not the whole reasoning, but it's an extremely important aspect: the harmonization of the rules on trials in absentia - which is the subject of this report - is a matter which i believe deserves priority attention in 2008. we have already discussed the frontex assessment. on 13 february we publish our first overall assessment of frontex and it is clear that the commission document will be discussed in the council and parliament and will form the basis of action, also a priority, for 2008: how did frontex work, how can we improve it, how can we get the member states to participate more? there has been talk of terrorism, and many have spoken of it. terrorist propaganda on the internet and violent radicalisation are all issues that will be addressed by non-legislative initiatives. some legislative measures are already on the agenda, there will be communications from the commission and the debate is worthwhile. i very much appreciated what mr roure said about the european pnr. this is a conversation that will continue throughout 2008. i do not think we will have adopted the european pnr by the end of this year. but i think that three criteria - if i have not misunderstood what mr roure said - should be our guiding principle: and the value added to the fight against terrorism, because that's what we're talking about. if this instrument is needed, we adopt it; if it is not needed, we modify it or we do not adopt it. i personally think it is necessary, but i think it should be discussed here. and then how to protect the data that is collected and how to punish those who misuse this data. these are open topics of discussion, of course, which we will be able to address during 2008. finally, there is immigration. i believe that immigration today requires continuing with the global approach, as the european council in december told us, to think ahead to the future french presidency on what the french government intends to propose as a european pact on immigration, and there i have already anticipated the commission's full readiness to work on that subject. finally, there is the matter of asylum policy. the year 2008 will be decisive because 2010 is the deadline for a european asylum system. 2008 will be the year in which the action plan is presented to the commission. i have given examples to show how, in this spirit, president deprez's proposal, which i believe is to be welcomed, is to meet and define concretely what can be done immediately because they are already mature and we can close many things in the slovenian presidency and what are the things we can continue to discuss from here, i would say, in june 2009.
thank you, mrs. in 't veld. i think that both the commission and the council have taken note of your intervention and i am convinced that they will provide written answers to the requests you have just made. the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the march part-session.
the next item is the debate on the report by armando frança, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the initiative of the republic of austria with a view to the adoption of a council decision on the improvement of cooperation between the special intervention units of the member states of the european union in crisis situations (15437/2006 c6-0058/2007 2007/0803 ((cns)) (a6-0507/2007).
i can only give the floor to those who have not spoken before and i do not see any of those who have not spoken asking me to speak. i have also been informed by mr frattini that he does not intend to speak on behalf of the commission. i therefore give the floor to the rapporteur, mr frança, for two minutes to close this debate.
mr. frança, congratulations on your excellent report. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
i am not going to go into detail. there was a remark yesterday by mr martin schulz to a colleague in this house, to mr martin, which had a very special content. the content of this statement cannot be accepted by the president. i reject that content and i repudiate the content of that statement.
mr president, i simply want to say that my group joins the groups which have tabled the joint motion for a resolution and will support it.
mr president, we are convinced that it is very desirable that there should be as much support and agreement as possible in this house on a resolution of such political importance. we therefore propose an oral amendment which would remove any value judgments from the original amendment and convert it into a simple reference to a specific fact, which we could call a 'relevant fact' in relation to the subject of the resolution, but again removing any value judgments in order to get maximum support in the house. the oral amendment would replace the text of the amendment with the following: takes note of the decision of the european court of first instance of 12 december 2006. that is, a mere mention, without any value judgment, of a relevant fact.
in writing. - the report (doc. a 2­0183/87) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (88) 0243 - doc. first of all, mr guidoni's good work, which includes many of our proposals, is worth noting. a european research area should certainly include: a single labour market for researchers, which implies establishing a single european model for research careers and an integrated system of information on jobs and traineeship contracts; opening up the selection and promotion processes, with a better balance between men and women in the courts; removing barriers to mobility and promoting greater participation of women in r & d, with measures to reconcile professional and private life; strengthening research institutions and the participation of smes in r & d; greater coordination with national and regional programmes, and more synergies with other european programmes; building infrastructures with exploitation by european joint ventures; and fostering international cooperation, promoting multilateral initiatives, exchanges to use infrastructures and scientific cooperation projects for development. these are necessary and coherent ways forward. that is why we are voting in favour.
mr president, transparency must be one of the foundations of the union's institutions. it is also for this parliament and even more so for the european commission, where senior officials enjoy immense power with little political control of any kind. that is why i would like to denounce in this house the commission's practice of responding to political resolutions in this house through mechanisms which were once the practice of the 'politburo' or the 'kremlin monologists' who analysed documents. i refer, for example - and this is just one more example - to the minutes of the sitting of 13 december 2007, where it is stated, under the heading 'current state of parliament's resolutions', that a communication from the commission has been distributed in response to a resolution voted by the house. that text, mr president, is published only in english and french, not in all the official languages, under the title sp/207/5401, on a website where it took me three weeks, with the advice of the secretariat and various officials of the house, to find it. without transparency there is no democracy; what there is is hypocrisy in the commission's discourse to pretend that it has consulted parliament and then bury its documents and its replies on the web without giving them any publicity.
the rapporteur, mr president, has always wanted to lead a policy of transparency in our accounts, in the accounts of the european union. it was then that, because of problems arising perhaps from mismanagement, he even forced the commission, chaired by mr santer, to resign. since then, it must be admitted, things have improved a great deal; this parliament has promoted a policy of transparency and the commission has supported this parliament. the result of this interest of the 'barroso commission' is that it has created nothing less than a vice-presidency, which is held here by vice-president siim kallas, whom i welcome, to carry out this objective. the citizens must know what we are doing with the very little money they pay to the european union, with that meagre 1%, we need to give greater control to community funds through visibility. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. that is the transparency initiative which this parliament applauds with both hands, and this own-initiative report which we are presenting says two things: firstly, that we must go a little further. we in the text take the liberty of saying that transparency must be manifested in the publication of blacklists, in knowing which candidates have been accepted and excluded in tenders, in that olaf must have a code to guarantee the presumption of innocence, a circumstance which has not been given in many cases. the point is that the european parliament already has its own ethical standards within the european union. we are not officials, we are politicians; we should also be transparent and we already are. that is why i am asking in amendment no 2 to paragraph 22 for the list proposed by the transparency initiative to be deleted, not only because this parliament has already taken decisions on our financial interests, on missions, on travel, but also because we believe that there must be regulation for the whole of the european union. this parliament has its own rules, which must be improved and perhaps even further developed. there is also another amendment in which i remove members of parliament from the treatment of public office; we are not public office holders, we are politicians. in some national legislations, this confusion could lead to certain problems. in this idea - which we support - of increasing transparency, we also want to ensure that the member states share the management of 80% of the funds and therefore we again call on the member states to submit national declarations of reliability. it is urgent and necessary, and we insist on it again. we have also discussed the need to include the recovery of community funds in the initiative presented by commissioner kallas, which cannot be excluded, because when our money is misused, we must know where it is, how it is recovered and when it is recovered. we have made great progress in transparency, but this parliament will give us the impetus, commissioner, to go even further.
mr president, i would like to join in congratulating the rapporteur, who has produced a very interesting report, and of course to thank the commission, represented by its vice-president, mr kallas, for all the efforts it has been making and for the good dialogue and cooperation it is carrying out with parliament. in this connection i would simply like to add a few nuances to what has already been said, which i largely agree with, and say that, in addition to the need for such information and transparency, it is essential that it be easily accessible, reliable and allow comparisons; that such information should appear organized and classified and that it should be of real practical use, not only to the very experts, but to the general public. in relation to the funds under shared management, i am particularly interested in stressing, in addition to what has been said, the need to 'prepare' the member states in this respect, especially also in relation to everything that an instrument of improvement can mean in relation to international organisations, where opacity often appears. i certainly welcome the idea of creating a common ethical space. i think it is a luxury which the commission can afford to export or even propose in certain negotiations at global level as good practice. i therefore welcome the study that the commission is carrying out on these ethical rules and standards, which will then be applicable to each institution. finally, i acknowledge and thank the rapporteur for accepting my request for a code of conduct for olaf, which i believe is absolutely and extremely urgent, because there is a difference between those who are responsible and those who are guilty and those who are innocent, who must be prevented and protected by all means.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank honourable members very much for their support for this transparency action, which has been a common action: in all issues, the commission has always felt it had strong support from parliament. there are two things i want to say. the first concerns the information available on end beneficiaries. i consider this to be an amazing change. when, together with some members of parliament, we started to initiate this at the beginning of 2004, there was no great hope that it would be implemented. but the political decision has now been taken, and the year 2009 is the final year by which the information on end beneficiaries of 2008 will and must be published. so, politically the decision has been taken. this is a great step forward. now the technicalities remain to be solved. that is not easy at all, because guidelines have now been issued on what this information on end beneficiaries should look like. but of course many of you raised the issue of workable search engines, and this is really not an easy task. of course, we will have a portal via which it will be possible to access the information in the member states, and access information about end beneficiaries. i foresee a lot of technical problems, but those technical problems – nothing is perfect, and everything takes a little time – definitely should not undermine the importance of this great change. concerning the famous national declarations, i must again say that the situation has completely changed in these three years. when i first appeared in council to discuss these issues, these were completely out of the question. today you have the annual summaries – we had already received 22 so far, and perhaps even more now. we will assess the quality together, and there definitely will be an improvement. so the understanding is that we have shared management problems, and we must also share information about the work – how we manage the structural funds. that understanding has increased tremendously in member states too. we will also try to fill out the idea of more comprehensive national declarations with specific substance. you know as well as i do that there are certain member states that are still very reluctant to have this greater involvement, but we already have a certain degree of involvement. as concerns international money, that is a something of a different issue. the issue of how this information should be made available will probably also be discussed within the framework of cocobu. however, we are partners in international agreements and do not manage them directly. information on what we manage directly must be made available, but we are partners in very big international poolings. that is a little different. concerning expert groups, as i said in cocobu, i can repeat here that we have a commitment to publish the list of permanent experts. this is really a question of definition: what kind of experts should be included on this list. this is a debate, and some experts who fulfil certain confidential tasks of assessing projects and people should not be so transparent, probably. there are some nuances. however, the commitment exists and i have been informed that we are ready to publish a long list of permanent experts. there is the question of all those national experts sent by member states participating in certain bodies, whose names will be sent afterwards, not before, but there is at least the commitment that there should be no big secret as to who is advising us. my last point, in response to an issue which was raised, is that the commission has no intention to propose how parliament should deal with its own rules, and what the declarations of economic interest should consist of. i can say only two things: this ethical space is a common space – if something happens in one institution, it definitely has an immediate effect on other institutions. we must, of course, address all these questions on the basis of common sense, and not go to absurd lengths and into unnecessary details, but only into the relevant issues, in order to avoid a real conflict of interests.
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr kallas can be pleased because he sees that the transparency initiative is a very important initiative, very much appreciated and applauded by the whole of this house, and because he has seen the support you will find here. we want to go further, mr kallas, in transparency, and we have already suggested to you in this report some areas where progress can be made: in terms of recovery, experts or the safeguarding of innocence. but beware! within the limits of common sense, not taking into account the populism of some yellow press which seems to be making money by exaggerating in a populist way what the serious life of the european union is. i am grateful to inés ayala for her suggestion that olaf should also deal with these matters, and i am grateful to mr jørgensen, mr paulo casaca, mr bösch, who is here, or to my colleagues ingeborg grässle, alex stubb, etc. i should like to say that alex stubb also asked me what i would remove, because i would remove, for example, the mention of spousal activities. i remember that the biggest problem in this european union was not a spouse, but something like that, and i am referring to the case of mrs edith cresson. so i say let's not put doors on the field and do the logical things and not the illogical things. in fact, we members of parliament also have the right to a private and family life. i would add that we will continue to set an example for many member states of how the european union is spending funds ever better, more efficiently, with little administrative cost and much more effectively than some member states. in this front line, which we all agree on, there are quite a few member states - those who refuse to present to us the 'ok' of how they spend 80% of community funds and then seem to rejoice when we refuse to approve the european union's accounts - who justify thereby the fact of giving less money to the common fund, limiting the activity of the european union, abusing our complaints that it is the member states who are not spending well, and using that argument to refuse to give this house more than 1%. i am grateful to mr president and i encourage mr kallas to pursue this objective, which is so dear to us and so much encouraged by this house.
member of the commission. − mr president, after more than two years of active interinstitutional work, we are now very close to the completion of the codecision procedure on this proposal, thanks in particular to the commitment of ms fourtou and the support of the members of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. i am very pleased that the legal framework for a future-oriented reform of european customs will – hopefully – be in place this year, which marks the 40th anniversary of our customs union. that will provide encouraging impetus for the work that still lies ahead of us. the customs union is usually presented as an ‘old’ pillar of the community. it cannot, however, be reduced to a simple legacy of the past. it is in operation today – and not just to ensure the collection of own resources. more and more, customs administrations, legislation and procedures will secure the internal market, contribute to consumer protection, support the external aspects of common policies and, at the same time, contribute to the facilitation of our international trade. to this end, customs legislation will evolve to respond to major changes and challenges, inside and outside the union, and resort to the most effective rules and efficient techniques. what will modernisation of the community customs code actually mean? first, better customs regulations, including simpler and streamlined rules and procedures, clarifying the rights and obligations of economic operators and guaranteeing their more uniform treatment, while providing for an equivalent level of security and safety. second, a progressive computerisation of all customs formalities, with a view to a completely ‘paperless’ environment for customs and trade, whose development will be supported and framed by the e-customs decision (no 70/2008/ec) of the parliament and of the council, adopted on 15 january 2008. these changes include interoperability between national computerised customs systems. they will allow, in particular, customs clearance of goods at the place of establishment of the declarant, irrespective of the place of entry into, exit from or supply within the community of those goods – so-called ‘centralised clearance’. they will also permit an exchange of data elements, in real time, between customs authorities, in order to perform risk analysis and improve controls within the framework of common risk management. by supporting the commission’s proposal at first reading, parliament has acknowledged the essential contribution of this legislative initiative to the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs. the council common position of october 2007, which incorporates most of the amendments adopted by parliament at first reading, is considered by the commission to be a well balanced compromise. the commission therefore welcomes ms fourtou’s report recommending approval of the common position without amendment.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i believe that the community customs code, as presented by the commission and discussed by parliament and the council, has followed an exemplary procedure. our rapporteur, mrs fourtou, has put a lot of work into it and in the end, as almost always happens, parliament, the council and the commission have all agreed on the final text which we are going to adopt. i believe that, as mr heaton-harris has said before, the european union is above all a customs union, and the customs code is therefore an important element in its functioning. however, the customs service as such does not operate as a totally free activity, it is an activity in which there is a great deal of public administration intervention, since there are certain goods and values that affect us all. we are talking about smuggling and, in some cases, smuggling as dangerous as arms smuggling, drug smuggling and even capital flight controls. it is therefore logical that the community customs code should take account of the limitations which normally exist in each of the member states and should seek to harmonize them. i think that the points of disagreement we had at the end have been satisfactorily resolved, firstly, with the double concept of the right of customs representation and the authorized economic operator, the idea that there are two figures, which are theoretically different, but which can coincide and can be harmonized. i think the solution adopted is a fairly good and fairly correct solution. commissioner kovács has insisted on the concept of centralised customs clearance, insofar as the customs union is a unit. it is not reasonable to have differences at the various customs posts. i think the solution is a good one, a practical one, and one that will allow us to function properly. finally, the last aspect to be mentioned is the comitology procedure. at this stage both the commission and the council have recognised the importance of parliament's involvement in this procedure. the agreement reached means that we are now in a position to apply this procedure with parliament's participation to 44 provisions out of the 28 provisions, which means that parliament will be able to intervene more and more effectively in the development of the provisions of the customs code. finally, mr president, i would like to thank mrs fourtou for her work and also the commissioner for the effort he has made to collect parliament's proposals.
on behalf of the alde group. i believe that this report, despite its wording, is a balanced report, of enormous importance and of great relevance. terrorism is undoubtedly a police phenomenon and has a police dimension, as we all know. but the causes of terrorism, or, more accurately, the causes that lead certain people to become terrorists, go much further. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i want to testify before this house, as you testify in a court of law, that it is not true that the outstretched hand of major ear has been refused. and i would testify under oath if that were a parliamentary practice. it's not true, man. the european people's party and the group will know the reasons why they are putting obstacles in the way of this report at this time. i can attest to meetings in the office of mr major oreja where we have agreed to 99% of what will be put to the vote tomorrow. let us not be told that something has been rejected or that the outstretched hand has been rejected, because that is simply not telling the truth by the one who holds it. it is therefore still a mystery what position the pp will adopt tomorrow, and that can certainly weaken the political message we want to convey to everyone. i therefore regret that attitude. to say that the problem is that the word 'jihad' disappears in one paragraph, when it appears in three paragraphs and then reappears in recital h that 'jihadism is without doubt the main axis of the type of terrorism we are talking about', i think it is to look for excuses that do not hold up. in any case, it is a report which speaks of freedom, religious freedom, freedom of thought and freedom to reject even a social model, but which makes it clear that europe cannot accept that, under the cloak of religion, violence is fuelled, hatred is fuelled or the very pillars of society are dynamited from within. the state has the right to have instruments of self-defence, which are instruments in defence of its own citizens. and it can do so, forcefully, in the police and the judiciary, while maintaining dialogue, participation and the effort to fully integrate those who may one day become so fanatical that they can attack a society that is their own, in which they have integrated or which is simply their own society, because, in many cases, they have even been born among us. it is debatable, and my group was discussing it, to what extent the existing laws are or are not sufficient; concepts such as apologising and justifying terrorist action are necessary for some, and are rejected by others, as possible excessive limits on freedom of expression. that is, in the end, the position of my group: not to go any further in amending the law and to reject the concept of apology. in any event, and i conclude, mr president, i welcome this report. i hope that the european people's party will reconsider and reflect on the support it can give to its content and welcome it from the commission as a blueprint for a comprehensive policy, a policy where the police cooperate closely throughout europe and where measures are taken that combine efficiency over glamour and try to produce a result that respects the rights of all.
mr president, this proposal for a recommendation which we are today addressing to the council and the commission is intended to contribute to the efforts of the institutions and civil society to tackle the factors which favour the support of terrorism and the recruitment of terrorists. it has been a long and laborious gestation, mr frattini, until it reached the house, but the final result will nevertheless be worth voting on tomorrow. the proposal focuses on the fight against islamist extremism, a new phenomenon in the eu which requires reflection and means to combat it. however, it is perfectly extrapolated to any other terrorist cause that you want to invoke in the name of homelands and flags. we therefore ask the council to include in the framework decision against terrorism the criminal offense of apologising for terrorism. it would be desirable to harmonize this criminal law in all 27 member states, always, always, with the utmost respect for freedom of expression. repressing and preventing radicalisation must go hand in hand. if we do not want radicalisation, we must ensure the education and integration of the 13 million muslims living in the european union and we must stop stigmatising this 3.5 per cent of the population. for the european union's external relations we want dialogue and not a clash of civilizations. that is why we refer to the concept of 'alliance of civilizations' adopted by the united nations and do not understand the visceral rejection of some members. we are in the year of intercultural dialogue. we don't want to contribute to perverting religion, we need to encourage social participation and dialogue. these are some of the achievements of this recommendation. are your proposals so bad that the previous rapporteur could not accept them? mr weber, mr oreja has shown a lack of parliamentary courtesy in not explaining to the members of the committee on civil liberties why he voted against and subsequently withdrew from the report. the fact that he is obsessed with transferring to the european parliament the systematic opposition that is applied at national level says a lot about the democratic nature of the previous rapporteur. with such attitudes we would make little progress in democracy and this house is characterised by consensus and not by closed-minded attitudes.
mr president, owing to the importance of this debate, i have a question for the ppe-de group. the issue was raised that if the ppe-de group was to support the report, it would withdraw, and ask the other groups to withdraw, any element relating to internal spanish politics. i would ask the ppe-de group’s representative which amendment tabled by that group is linked to spanish politics. it would be very interesting to know, and then it could be made public which of the amendments of the ppe-de group concern internal politics. is it the reference to the united nations in amendment 1 which they want to delete? do they want to delete a reference to the united nations? is that spanish internal politics? one has to be coherent. the only person who is trying to introduce internal politics is mr mayor oreja, who did not even have the courtesy to attend this part-session.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. today, some time later, the european commission has corrected this situation, has rectified it and has clearly placed external trade, access to third markets, as one of the pillars, one more, in that whole which must lead to the growth and well-being of europe. the export of goods and services is a basic part of the competitiveness of our economies and therefore of what can generate employment and wealth within the european union. the main difficulties in this access, in this export, arise above all from non-tariff barriers, not so much from the more or less recognized tariffs. the commission conducted a wide consultation at the time, which already demonstrated an intention 'which we share' in the context of its wider strategy for a global europe. in fact, this report takes up some or all of the replies received in that consultation and which the commission decided at that time not to incorporate. globalisation is not an external threat against which we must protect ourselves; it is, as this rapporteur sees it, an immense opportunity to go where we could not go before, and a wider market is an instrument for wealth creation, that is, for the creation of jobs and welfare. it is true, and i say this especially with regard to a section of this house, that it is a question of market access, which this report calls for and which must be strengthened, that 'market access', that strategy which can and must respect the circumstances of each country. the european leadership in this trade knows how to respect, and must continue to respect, the legitimate concerns of the emerging economies. but one of the most open economies in the world, the european one, cannot be swayed by dogmatism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it can and must improve its instruments in brussels, at the level of the european union, by better coordination with the trade promotion bodies of the member states and regions, and with the companies themselves. in this area, mr commissioner, the word subsidiarity must be given its full meaning. the commission has a role to play in this area which no one can play for it, which displaces no one but enriches everyone by coordinating what others are already doing, perhaps without the efficiency that the commission can bring. the report raises a number of specific points, in some cases very specific, which the commission can improve in the context of its market access strategy. i will not read them here, but they are very clear and very precise and can be evaluated with the same precision. we also ask very specifically that the commission should define ad hoc measures to protect and improve the presence of the products of small and mediumsized enterprises on the markets of third countries, because they are the ones who can have the most difficulty when they are unprotected. the commission can and must also coordinate resources better on the ground without hurting sensitivities, without throwing anyone out. each state, each export support agency, each trade representation of a member state, without bothering anyone, the delegations of the european union can strengthen their role in those third states. the isolation of some of the foreign trade players, which is known to anyone who has visited the area, is completely unjustified. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i therefore believe that we can all congratulate ourselves on the adoption of this report, which was, as expected, by a large majority. i would like to thank in particular the secretariat of the committee on international trade, which helped draft it, and the alternative rapporteurs from the various parliamentary groups who have tabled their amendments and enriched this text. we are starting from here a political impulse. this is not a paper to be approved and framed on the wall. this is the beginning, as its name says, of a strategy, and a strategy requires a whole set of measures which must be implemented and on which we shall ask the commission to come back to this house at the appropriate time and explain to us how it has carried them out.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the work he has done, which is a very important work of proposal and analysis. we do not vote on the explanatory memoranda in this house, but if this report were to be adopted, i would vote in favour of it because it does indeed justify very well what the main proposals are. i therefore believe i can announce the support of the socialist group, together with the request that the rapporteur take account of some of the main amendments which we have tabled, those which most characterise our group from the left. europe is the world's leading exporter of goods and the world's leading provider of services. and in globalization, we have a legitimate right to advocate that our products and our services have the greatest presence in the markets, in this case, in the markets of emerging countries. why not? - why not? it is logical and normal, and our citizens would want it that way. the proposals made in the report, which are made in the commission's communication, are correct, starting with the fight against non-tariff barriers, which the rapporteur rightly calls 'a hydra'; a hydra that is behind, but which actually prevents not only the access of european products and services to markets, but the balanced development of these countries and these markets. i therefore believe that this report is going in the right direction, because it is about achieving our lisbon agenda, strengthening our social model, and also getting that model introduced into the emerging countries with which we want to trade. i think that this is certainly beneficial for european workers and for workers in those countries. we insist on the issue of working conditions, we insist on the issue of safety, we insist on the protection of the environment and, in general, on human rights. those are our key amendments. i would ask the rapporteur to take them into account again, and how is that to be done? with cooperation - i do not know if it is called 'enhanced', because it is a bit confused with the institutional provisions of the new treaty - much stronger between the union, the member states and businesses, starting with support for small and mediumsized enterprises, so congratulations and good night.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank you and the honourable members for what has been a very constructive and useful debate on this excellent report. i am particularly grateful to the member who intervened to urge a reassessment of the staffing allocations of commission delegations in key economies. i thought this was an excellent proposal, and one that i will have no hesitation at all in communicating to my colleagues. i could rehearse for you the details of the small number of delegation staff working, for example, on trade matters in china compared to the considerably larger numbers of staff working on what is a very small amount of development aid and cooperation in that country, set alongside the billions that are at stake for europe in trade. but i will not; i will simply pocket the suggestion and pass it on. it is certainly not the case that i am advocating free-trade agreements at the expense of the world trade talks. anyone who is familiar with the global europe trade strategy that we presented in november 2006 will realise that my advocacy of deep, comprehensive free-trade agreements that really contribute to increasing the sum total of world trade, and not simply divert it, has been a feature of our approach alongside our commitment to the wto talks – the doha round. i can assure the honourable member that i am continuing to work for their success rather than their failure. rumours about further unacceptable or inappropriate concessions on agriculture are unfounded. indeed, the only rumours that i have picked up about such unwarranted concessions actually came from the irish foreign minister in the general affairs council today. these rumours seem to be circulating within a relatively small community of interest. the fact is that on agriculture – and other areas of the doha talks – we will move as far as it is prudent for us to go in order to contribute to the success of the world trade talks, but ultimately this must be within the limits of the mandate we have been given on the basis of the 2003 cap reform. it is true that we have two new negotiating texts that have been presented by negotiating group chairs in recent weeks. on agriculture, we have a text in which not everything is to our liking, but there is nothing that we cannot handle in that agriculture text or that will push us beyond our mandate. in the case of non-agricultural market access – industrial goods – the situation, in my view, is not so satisfactory. there, the new text presented by the chairman has created a greater fluidity in the negotiations, rather than more concrete foundations. i regret that, but again it is something that we have to work with and negotiate our way through. these debates would not be so enjoyable if it were not for mr schlyter’s contributions. whenever he intervenes i always feel reinforced in my personal commitment and conviction concerning free trade. his interventions always reassure me that we are indeed on the right track. it is not a question of the poor little european union struggling against the mighty titans amongst the emerging economies, nor is it about a sort of fit of aggressive bullying that has taken over the commission in the area of trade, in which we seek without consultation or consideration to impose our interests on others. the fact is that those of us who believe in international trade are seeking balance and we are seeking reciprocity, but we are also seeking mutual advantage. when we seek openings in the economies of others, we are not doing that in order simply to satisfy ourselves, or to serve our own interests and our own needs. we are also contributing to the welfare and growth of the economies whose greater opening we are trying to bring about. of course, the liberalisation of economies is something that has to be achieved progressively. it is an incremental process, rather than a big bang or a sudden shock. the fact is that emerging economies benefit from greater opening. this means useful competition to stimulate innovation and to spur productivity in those economies, it means lowering the costs of inputs to local industry, it means lower-priced goods for consumers in those emerging economies, and it means bringing capital, technologies, creativity and modern management skills to those emerging economies. the fact is that this process of opening and integration to the global economy secures the growth and strengthening of those emerging economies to enable their businesses to grow, to create much-needed employment for their workers in these economies, and to generate products and services for export so that they can create and secure a growing share of international trade. in other words, opening begets opening; trade begets trade. our prosperity and our opportunities beget opportunities for those who live and work in those emerging economies. it is, in other words, a virtuous process that we are talking about, and that is what the market access strategy which our rapporteur has presented such an excellent report on is all about. in concluding, i would say that when it comes to local procurement it is indeed important to support and encourage the capacity of emerging economies and developing countries to supply their local procurement markets. however, if this means higher costs for public procurement in those economies, if it means inefficiencies, if it means a lack of transparency, and indeed in some cases corruption in the operation of public procurement, who shoulders the costs of that? the answer is the very local people, the very local workers and the very local taxpayers in emerging economies and developing countries who can ill afford to shoulder those costs. that is why it is important to bring openness and transparency to public procurement policies and behaviour in emerging economies. it is not simply to please and to satisfy the ‘poor little’ european union.
rapporteur. − mr president, there is not much more to say. first of all, let me thank again all those who have enriched this debate, not just today but ever since the debate started, through their contributions, amendments and even the informal conversations we have had, which has resulted in a final text which is not the work of one rapporteur but of everyone involved. we mostly shared the diagnosis, and i was very surprised at the tone of some of the comments from the green corner of this house. it would be interesting to have the colleague in question go and see the results and consequences of free trade in situ and also to go and explain to a medium-sized enterprise, say near barcelona where i live, that this was a ‘colonial approach’. i could quote so many companies who are fighting to export, with a great part of their activities depending on exports. he might like to tell the employees of those factories that they are just acting as european colonisers in trying to enlarge the export market share of the product they are manufacturing, when if china introduces barriers which prevent them from exporting what they are manufacturing it is their jobs which are at stake. this is not just about big words on big european companies being colonial, it is about something much more real. although everyone has the right to portray things as they wish, i must say that the idea of this being a ‘colonialist’ report really surprised me and might be even be viewed as comic by a lot of exporters in my country. it is clear, though, that we do, in general, agree on the diagnosis, and as the commission has said it is something that was started by the council, was followed up by the commission and is today being supported by parliament, which of course puts a lot of responsibility on your shoulders, commissioner, because we do have a common approach. again, let me underline that this is a dynamic process and a fresh strategy, and some elements are indeed new and need to be followed up. may i quote a point in the report which was underlined by our colleague and which you liked so much: ‘we call on the commission to reprioritise the deployment and eventually to increase the human resources available for european union delegations, so that more staff are available to start up and ensure the successful functioning of market access teams’. the same is true, inter alia, of what the report says on smes. there are a lot of new things in this report, and we wish you all the best in implementing them.
madam president, some thirty years ago the court of justice, in the judgment in cassis de dijon, established the principle of mutual recognition. one of the rapporteurs today, mr stubb, says that this package of measures is intended to implement the judgment of the dijon court in the legislative plan. but this judgment cannot be replaced by a legislative text, because this judgment is in fact an instrument used by the court of justice to impose the harmonization of the internal market. the current package is a substitute for something much more necessary and which has been expressed in this debate, namely the need for genuine harmonization of production within the european union. with the current system of mutual recognition we are exposed to the chain breaking down at the weakest point. this was the case, for example, in the mad cow case, when the british government decided to deregulate the process of making animal flour. it has also happened recently in another area, in the case of equitable life, when the financial sector was not properly regulated. the package is a step forward, but only a small step forward, because governments are not going to give up the protection of citizens - as mrs hedh has just said - as long as there are governments which do not establish maximum control and there is no control by the european union. in short, we have a poor substitute for genuine european union legislation which replaces the 27 national regulations. the european parliament will probably give its approval to this package and i think it is a good one, but we cannot rest, because without genuine community regulation and without genuine quality certification that reassures the citizens of the european union as a whole we will not make great progress in the area of building the market for european products. (applause) i would like to thank
thank you very much, mr. hannan. your apology is welcome and noted.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to propose to the house an oral amendment to paragraph 35. if it were to be voted on, amendment no 24 would be left without substance. in english it would read as follows: invites the european union's trade partners to progressively reduce or dismantle barriers restricting market access for goods the rest of the text would be the same. instead of calling for the radical and immediate dismantling of all barriers to market access, it calls for the gradual reduction or, where appropriate, the dismantling of those barriers to market access.
the voting is closed.
madam president, the priorities and the resources related to the lisbon strategy should be more clearly identified in the budgets of the member states and the relevant institutions. the whole chain of education and training systems should be closely examined and the content should be of the highest possible standard in terms of general culture and scientific and technical training, in order to enable people to adapt to the changing environment and to promote citizen participation, better quality jobs, entrepreneurship and innovation. demographic changes and their effects on income, the labour market and health care should also be analysed. the innovative labour market reform should also be guided by 'flexicurity' rules which promote competitiveness while facilitating adequate social security, which do not look only to the right of this house, as my colleague rebecca harms has mentioned in her speech. finally, member states and all the relevant institutions must make effective use of the exchange of good practice, which also has the advantage of promoting convergence of objectives across europe.
madam president, commissioner, president of the european council, we are again facing a difficult time in the european union, a difficult economic situation, and we are approaching the drawing up of these guidelines for economic policy in circumstances characterized mainly by a weakening of economic growth, which is mainly due to the lack of confidence of economic agents: consumers, entrepreneurs and, especially, small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done. we support the commission in its efforts through the integrated guidelines to facilitate fundamental reforms which underpin a new framework of confidence to overcome the difficulties we are facing. a new framework that is committed to labour reforms, agreed with the social partners, with tax reforms that favour the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises and job creation. in short, with reforms that facilitate the completion of the internal market as the best way of stimulating job-creating economic growth in the european union. in this connection, i would also like to emphasize that we reject protectionism, as we advocate in our political position, and that we should advocate that we finally establish in the european union the basis for economic growth that creates jobs, which is the real pillar of the european construction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of the stability and growth pact and the relaunch of the lisbon strategy, which identified sustainable growth and employment as european priorities, have borne fruit since the spring 2005 council. europe has put a common agenda into action and, as commissioner almunia has said, in its first three-year cycle it has increased growth, created jobs, improved public finances and increased the growth potential of the european economy. although the results vary from one member state to another, the overall picture is positive. it was really strange to me to hear a colleague say that it was impossible to square the circle, that it was impossible to grow, create jobs, increase social protection and save. and in the european union there are examples, the one i know best of course is the case of spain. the european commission has reported that spain has made good progress in implementing its national reform programme, has achieved an employment rate of 66% above the european average three years ahead of schedule, has increased investment in research and development (r & d) and has achieved surpluses in all budget years. it is an example of the lisbon strategy, which has strengthened its economy and boosted its unprecedented convergence to 105% of the eu average. we must therefore continue to face the same strategic challenges today, which are the result of accelerating globalisation and ageing populations. to achieve this, the social dimension will have to be emphasised. a europe that is a knowledge society needs to build a freedom of knowledge, make digital inclusion a reality and foster the social dimension, improving people's basic skills, giving opportunities to smes and establishing a flexicurity model with social standards. it will be necessary to address problems that have recently emerged, such as the subprime crisis and fuel and food prices, but we must do so bearing in mind that we are starting from a more solid situation, that next year we will celebrate the tenth anniversary of the euro and that we must strengthen international economic cooperation.
mr president, i would like to express my dismay at the fact that the commission's 10 objectives for the new phase do not reflect the recommendation made by the european parliament last year for greater integration of the transport, logistics and transeuropean networks sectors in the lisbon strategy. as i cannot imagine that the commission is unaware of the importance of these vectors of competitiveness - since, in fact, in the context of globalisation, logistics already represents a cost to industry that exceeds that of labour, not to mention the challenge that climate change adds - i am confident that the commission will take note this time of paragraph 27 together with paragraph 16, on galileo and innovation, so that we can take full advantage of the very useful synergy created by this lisbon process between the commission and the member states to advance european projects for sustainable transport, logistics and trans-european networks, especially in their cross-border sections, which have always been so neglected. as for the council, i would ask the presidency to take note of paragraph 27 as well, which reiterates the call on the member states to integrate the basic transport and logistics sectors into their national plans by means of national plans and the development of transeuropean networks in their respective share, which is the largest.
the commission's vice-president the agency has issued formal instructions which, if followed, will allow the airworthiness of these aircraft. therefore, there is no safety problem; the danish authorities simply did not notify the european aviation safety agency of the airline's replies. mrs jensen, the truth is that all the instructions have been given by the european aviation safety agency to remedy the difficulties which may arise from the use of these aircraft. at the moment the european aviation safety agency has to wait for the results of the investigations to take a definitive position, but i would stress that the agency has obviously given all the indications for the proper use of these aircraft, which have not caused any accidents involving people but which, as you have pointed out, have indeed had accidents which need to be remedied.
the commission's vice-president - i would point out that the instructions were given by the european aviation safety agency. all airlines are therefore expected to apply the rules that have been indicated by the agency. but your question is broader. yes, the european aviation safety agency has responsibilities for the certification of aircraft, it has responsibilities for issuing approvals to design bodies around the world, but it only monitors the uniform application of the common rules, by means of inspections in the member states of the union. in other words, we have extended - you are right to point this out - the powers of the agency, but not to the extent that the authorities of the various member states, the directorates-general for civil aviation, would be completely without responsibilities. the member states must exercise their responsibilities through their directorates-general for civil aviation. perhaps we will be able to go further one day, but for the time being the european aviation safety agency has a very heavy responsibility, and it must be able to continue to monitor closely the application of the common rules by means of inspections in the member states. in this case, i believe that the agency acted in a manner which was fully consistent with the safety requirements.
member of the commission. − management pay is a topical issue and has been for quite some time. in reaction, the commission has taken steps to increase transparency regarding management pay. the commission recommendation adopted in 2004 provides for annual disclosure regarding both the company policy on directors’ remuneration and the remuneration of individual directors. the commission has also followed up on this recommendation by checking whether it is actually applied by member states. we have recently made an overview of this. the large majority of member states have introduced high disclosure standards on the remuneration of individual executives in their national corporate governance code or in binding legislation. however, only around 60% of member states have followed the recommendation as regards transparency on their remuneration policy. only a very few recommend putting this to the vote in the company’s general meeting. there is scope for improvement here. the commission will also evaluate the extent to which companies adhere to the recommended transparency standards in practice. remuneration is a field in which some companies have shown strong reluctance to disclose information, despite the recommendations of the national corporate governance code. we will look into this question.
member of the commission. − in reply to both questions from the honourable member, these are matters that should be dealt with by a member state. in response to the question regarding what the commission is going to do, the commission has already done it. my predecessor decided to make a recommendation in this particular area. why did he decide on a recommendation rather than anything else? i have no doubt that it was for a whole variety of reasons, but primary among them would be the fact that there is no agreement on having a universal corporate governance code or company law regime in europe. we would never be able to obtain such an agreement. there are very many cultural differences in this whole area, and that would have been one of the reasons underpinning the decision of my predecessor to issue a recommendation in this particular regard. with regard to the recommendation, our study has shown that the majority of member states have introduced high disclosure standards regarding the remuneration of individual directors in the corporate governance code, and some have put it into binding legislation. the majority have also dealt with the recommendation as regards transparency on remuneration policy. the second question regarding taxation is certainly a matter for each individual member state to pursue in whatever way they think fit and in accordance with their national laws.
member of the commission. - the mr president, first of all i would like to remind you of the commission's unwavering position that whatever the usefulness or necessity of a project, its implementation should never be detrimental to the environment, public health or the cultural heritage of a member state. member states should take all necessary measures to protect and preserve cultural heritage, especially in the historic centres of their cities, which sometimes suffer the most from the pressures of increasing urbanisation. in this particular case, which concerns the anniversary of the honourable member of parliament, i would like to make the following points: only some of the individual projects for the construction of the madrid-saragossa-barcelona high-speed railway line have been co-financed by the cohesion fund. the ten-t fund is co-financing studies on projects along the entire railway line, including the extension of the line from barcelona to the cities of heron and figueres. however, no european funds have been allocated or used for projects relating to the underground line under barcelona. it should also be noted that the planning and execution of projects is the sole responsibility of the member state which is obliged to observe and strictly apply the relevant rules of community legislation. in the present case, there was no community co-financing for the construction of the section linking sants and sagrega stations and the tunnel to be opened near the sagrada familia church and, therefore, the commission was not informed of, nor did it receive a copy of, the environmental impact study drawn up by the spanish authorities. the commission is aware that the competent spanish authority, namely the general secretariat for pollution prevention and climate change, has approved the environmental impact study in accordance with the decision of 30 may 2007. the text of the approval decision was published in the spanish government gazette in june 2007. the text also mentions the impact of the project on cultural heritage, such as the sagrada familia. finally, the commission has not been informed of the study prepared by the university pompeu fabra. the spanish authorities are responsible for taking into account both the content of studies as in the present case and public opinion. the commission will continue to monitor the situation and we hope that no damage will be done to this historic piece of the cultural wealth of the city of barcelona.
mr president, i have no doubt that the legal procedures have been followed correctly, with a minimum of rigor, we might say. i am calling on the commission to help as the guardian of the treaties and to take responsibility for refusing to do what it is doing and to apply the environmental impact directive with scrupulousness and quality. the fact that this section of the tunnel will not be financed by the european union is irrelevant, because we all know that splitting projects into sections is a bad practice that the european union has sometimes condemned. why has the ave not been declared a major project requiring detailed impact studies, since we know that it will pass under very sensitive areas such as la pedrera and, above all, next to the sagrada familia? the spirit of the eia directive, article 3, requires an assessment of the possible impact on cultural heritage. the 40-metre-deep protective wall that is to be built is only one and a half metres from the facade of the sagrada familia, which weighs 40,000 tonnes. on the other hand, given the characteristics of the site and the fact that the temple is a very delicate structure and a work of genius, i simply ask that the parties be heard and taken into account. i am very glad that the ave is here, but this is not a matter of political parties, since the pp changed the route, and now i really think it should be changed again to run through the street of valencia.
member of the commission. - i would again stress that the commission has no competence to intervene. the honourable member is right, of course, that we must take special care to preserve our cultural heritage and especially this architectural masterpiece, but so far we have not been informed of any danger, and the environmental study that has been drawn up has not been denounced to us as incorrect. the only one that has come to the commission is on the subject of applications which was presented to the competent committee of the european parliament by the llave para litoral association, whose members want a different layout along the coast and not underground. but these are issues that local authorities, regional authorities and central government should always solve by applying the environmental impact assessment directive as well as the duty they have to preserve cultural heritage.
mr president, i would just like to add a little information and say - perhaps also to reassure you - that these works have very complete geological information, that the construction technique is appropriate to the conditions of the site, that preventive treatments will be carried out before passing through existing structures, that permanent auscultation will be carried out to immediately detect any possible slight movement or settlement of the site, that there will be no damage to neighbouring buildings and that guarantees of transparency in citizen information will be provided. i would like to say that i do not think that anyone, such as the spanish, catalan and city authorities, has such an interest in the fact that, obviously, neither this historic monument nor the neighbours who live there suffer any damage.
member of the commission. − each citizen has the right to complain if something is not going well. if i were an ordinary citizen, the first place i would complain to would be the committee on petitions of the european parliament, because that is the place where the voice of parliament will intervene. the second way is through transparency, which is a very important element of all our rules. the commission has tried to get this transparency put in place. you may remember, for instance, with regard to voice roaming, that citizens were not informed at all about where they could get information about price structures until the commission established a website giving information on roaming. that was the first time that transparency had worked. in the new reform we also make transparency the rule and not only the exception, not only with regard to price structures but also, for instance, when there are breaches of security or privacy. in such cases, operators have an obligation to inform consumers. having said that, citizens will still be able to complain in the normal way, as under the old telecom rules.
member of the commission − the high-speed internet is the internet of the future, and we would not like this internet to be available only to some. this is why the information society for all is one of the lisbon strategy postulates for open and competitive markets. because our regulatory instruments today, even before the reform, enable this open approach to the e-communications framework – it is also bolstered by general competition rules – this has made markets too open to competition, which in turn has driven the roll-out of broadband access networks in europe. i am worried that in some countries it worked well – these are the countries where competition is functioning well, where you have penetration rates of up to 37%, even 40% – whereas in some other countries the penetration rates are very low. i would like to get rid of this variation. i would like to bring those who are in the very low category up the ladder. this is why the commission proposes, as part of the reform, to enable the commission to oversee the regulatory remedies put in place by national regulatory authorities, backed up by the possibility of the national regulatory authorities imposing functional separation if they think it necessary in order to open the markets. in parallel, the commission deals with anti-competitive behaviour as a priority. for instance, in 2003 we fined france télécom and deutsche telekom for abusive behaviour in the broadband markets and, most recently, on 4 july 2007 the commission fined telefónica for having abused its dominant position by margin squeeze in the spanish broadband market. i would also like to say that a communication was issued in march 2006 on bridging the broadband gap. i really believe that we need broadband for all, and this is why i believe we need to have national broadband strategies which reflect regional and local needs. moving to the question raised about transparency, the commission is about to launch a web portal that should start to operate around may-june 2008 on the question of broadband and the citizens. last but not least, the commission has a favourable view regarding the use of public funds, including eu funds – structural funds – to extend broadband in areas where commercial deployment is inadequate. several such projects have already been established. we also support the development of information societies through regional policy. a provisional estimate puts the investment at about eur 15 billion, which is 4.4% of the total spending for the period 2007-2013, and of this figure eur 2.2 billion is expected to be spent on broadband infrastructures. through these combined efforts we hope that the penetration figures of today – where we have, incidentally, four world leaders in broadband penetration – will make many more countries leaders in the world and particularly in europe.
member of the commission. - mr president, in reply to the honourable member, i would say that we do not intervene lightly on the market price, but we normally let the market solve these problems. but if the market cannot solve the problems, then politicians must take responsibility. that's what we did with voice roaming. that's what i wouldn't want to do with texting and data roaming. that is why - on the basis of the obligation imposed on me by the regulation on voice roaming, in which parliament asked me to present an analysis of the situation in 2008 - i have just warned the industry, telling it very clearly that if it does not lower prices itself, it will be the regulators, including the european parliament, who will be forced to act. but in fact, the market must always be given a chance first and it is only if the market cannot solve the problem that policy must intervene. what will happen to the broadband market? i don't know, man. at the moment, i can only see that we have, among our european countries, four countries that are, in terms of penetration, the world champions, far ahead of japan and south korea, and far, far ahead of the united states. what do we see? it is clear that these are competitive markets. we can see that these are markets where there are several offers on the table and the consumer, in the end, can choose the service that seems most appropriate to him. that's how a market should work. it is only if the market is not working that regulation is needed. the national regulators do. in order to do this more efficiently and more effectively by advancing the internal market, which is europe's great asset in the face of globalisation, i propose to reform telecommunications market law. i am doing that, and parliament is discussing it now, so that the choice offered to consumers is the real choice. at the moment, there are too many citizens - not just citizens, but also small and medium-sized businesses - who do not have access to broadband. they will not have access to the future, through broadband, to the development of society. i think that's a situation we can't accept. that is why broadband for all must be a political objective. this political objective could be achieved if we were able to reform the telecommunications market so that there is real competition between operators and, therefore, the choice of the service they wish to offer to citizens.
member of the commission. − mr president, this subject is very dear to my heart, because it concerns children and their safety. i believe that the new technology is wonderful for children, but it also has dangers, and we have to fight these. this is why we have established two extensive european networks: the inhope network of hotlines, where members of the public can report illegal content, and the insafe awareness-raising network, which aims to spread knowledge about the safer use of online technologies to children, parents, schools, policy-makers and the media. all these are organised under the safer internet programme and are unique pan-european initiatives. inhope’s hotlines exist in 24 european countries, and it also has an international outreach with members in asia and the united states. the number of reports of child-abuse material processed by the network and passed on to law enforcement authorities has increased by 15% in recent years, so we can really see the importance of those hotlines. the second network is insafe, which coordinates awareness centres in 23 european countries and also organises the safer internet day every year – this year it was on 12 february. we organised the pan-european youth forum, where a number of members of parliament and representatives from industry were present to speak directly about their experiences with social networking and mobile phone use. the eu kids online network coordinates researchers from 21 countries who focus on child safety online, and every year the safer internet forum brings together non-governmental organisations, industry researchers and policy-makers to discuss how to fight illegal content efficiently, web 2.0 and other relevant topics. the programme also encourages the engagement of the private sector. the safer internet plus programme will end in december 2008, which is why parliament will very soon have the opportunity to look at the review of this programme for the period 2009-2013. i am sure parliament will take an active part in this decision-making process. we have seen good results so far and we can reinforce these. the problem is not becoming smaller, it is continuing to grow, so i believe these programmes should continue.
member of the commission. − i completely agree with the honourable members. that is indeed a big problem. for once, children in our society know more than parents, which is not such a bad thing, but it creates problems for parents in helping their children to overcome the problem. by the way, it concerns not only parents but also grandparents –very often grandparents are the first to buy a mobile phone for their grandchildren, in order to communicate with them. and it concerns educators, of course. that is the reason why we not only propose to expand the programme with an increased budget of eur 55 million – and i hope parliament will increase that budget – but are also working together with private organisations, such as schoolnet. the schoolnet programme exists in many of our european schools and really tackles this problem in order to make the children aware of the problems and show them that not everybody they may come into contact with is someone they should be in contact with. it also provides information through hotlines and the safer internet programme activities, and provides awareness centres to make parents understand what is going on. very often, parents do not have any idea about the advantages and the disadvantages of new technologies. i am responsible for new technology and i really believe that the majority of actions through new technology are positive ones. i would not like a few negative aspects to completely prevent the younger generation from having contact with new technology. that is why i also believe very strongly in the self-regulation capacity of the industry. a year ago, i asked mobile phone operators to do something to ensure that, in the third generation of mobile phones, problems with the internet will not directly cross over to mobile phones. i am very glad to say that, this year, the mobile phone industry came up with very concrete actions to inform parents and children about the difficulties and to block programmes which are dangerous for children in the third generation of mobile phones. so progress is being made. i think that maybe the european elections will be a very good moment for the european parliament to bring to the attention of citizens the actions which have been put in place. these are concrete actions. you are right that not everybody knows about them. so why not take advantage of the huge movement towards the general public during the parliamentary campaign for the elections to explain to citizens what concrete actions the european community is taking in favour of society?
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for us too, central asia is a region of growing importance, and i fully agree with you that it is a bridge between europe and asia, of great strategic importance, and indeed a neighbour of neighbours, namely when i speak of the caucasus. in fact, as you said, the central asian countries are members of the osce and are therefore seeking to establish close links with europe. it's important that we continue to support this. we want to meet that request, and we have had a really good cooperation with the german presidency. we, the commission, have put forward proposals which have been accepted by all. we have a new and very important strategy for central asia. i am glad that the european parliament and you yourself, mr özdemir, have addressed this very question in this well-founded report. it is very important to move forward in implementing this strategy in the future. we must of course also keep in mind that although the european union has been active in these countries since their independence, we now have a new impetus, so to speak, and are turning more and more to these countries. i therefore particularly welcome the clear statement in the report that the european parliament will promote the ratification of the partnership and cooperation agreements, particularly with tajikistan. i hope that this can also be done in the case of turkmenistan, because in the case of turkmenistan in particular, an extended contractual framework would also allow for more intensive support for the framework conditions and reforms. as you know, we have been providing bilateral technical assistance for many years in the reform process and also humanitarian aid. so we're not starting from scratch. but there is enormous potential for further expansion of our relations. we have therefore set out in the new strategy very clearly what we want to achieve with this increased commitment: to promote reforms in the field of human rights, democracy, support economic development, investment promotion, environmental protection, environmental sustainability, the development of energy and transport links, but also to tackle common challenges such as drug trafficking. the strategy is also flanked by the european community's regional aid strategy for central asia. this supports our policy objectives and also makes important contributions to the achievement of the millennium development goals, particularly in the areas of poverty reduction and health. it seems to me particularly important to make progress on some specific issues such as human rights, but also education, the rule of law, important regional projects in west and central asia, the question of water management, the extension of the eib's mandate. you have rightly referred to the energy dialogue and also to the need to conclude an agreement on cooperation in the energy sector with turkmenistan. in fact, both kazakhstan and turkmenistan are of particular importance to us here. i should like to mention briefly that the house of europe will be opened in ashgabat, the capital of turkmenistan, in the spring, which will greatly improve the visibility of our activities there. i hope i can do that myself. the preparations for the opening of a delegation in uzbekistan and the upgrading of the delegations in tajikistan and kyrgyzstan are also proceeding according to plan. finally, a brief update on the current energy and food crisis in tajikistan. my colleague, mr louis michel, is currently examining echo's proposal to prepare a series of emergency aid measures amounting to eur 750 000 and i hope that this proposal can be approved shortly. i am sure that i have much more to say, but i have limited time to speak.
opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - madam president, as the rapporteur has said, this region needs a coherent strategy from europe. this consistency requires respect for the european consensus on development and, in particular, the use made of the financing instrument for development cooperation, which is primarily devoted to eradicating poverty and achieving the millennium development goals. however, it is very unlikely that the region will achieve these goals and it is clear that poverty remains one of the most important problems in these countries, except for those with oil. however, this strategy does not mention poverty eradication or social inclusion among its key priorities, nor does it place particular emphasis on public health issues or on issues of eliminating gender discrimination. the committee on development calls for these objectives to be clearly stated in any strategy that is consistent with these countries and with the other policy instruments of the european union. we welcome the mention of the problems of education, and in particular of primary education, as an area of cooperation. and it needs to be, because it is in relation to that goal, education, that those countries are furthest away from achieving the millennium development goals. we also welcome the reference to the ilo conventions on the concept of decent work and stress that these criteria must play an integral role in economic cooperation, investment and trade relations, in particular in the fight against child labour, which remains a very serious problem in these countries, in particular in tajikistan and uzbekistan.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i too would like to add my congratulations to those you have expressed on behalf of richard corbett. i think that this collaboration between richard corbett and a member of the european people's party shows, in the end, what europe is all about: that, not having the same conceptions and having different sensibilities, we are able to do things together; we are able to move forward to improve the lives of europeans. so i want to thank richard corbett for his collaboration and cooperation, always loyal, and always, i insist, to do things together, to build, not to be negative or to destroy. mr president, three years ago richard corbett and i presented the constitutional treaty to this house and today we are the rapporteurs of the european parliament to discuss the treaty of lisbon. it is clear, mr president, that some of us were more ambitious than this treaty of lisbon. i think this house was more ambitious. it is also clear that we are faced with a unique situation. the ratification process had not been completed, and a political solution had to be found. and the lisbon treaty is a political solution. and that, again, is europe; it is seeking agreements, it is seeking compromises to get out of crises, to get out of dead ends. mr corbett has explained very well, and i therefore agree with him, the advantages of the lisbon treaty over the treaties currently in force. i would like to add something that richard corbett has not said: the treaty of lisbon is not the constitutional treaty. we have had to abandon many of our ambitions, and i regret that, but i also believe that the essence of the constitutional treaty is in the treaty of lisbon. not being the same, we've managed to keep the essentials. and what is the essential? what do we calibrate as essential? the essential thing is what will make the european union more democratic, what will make the european union more effective, what, in short, will make the european union an added value for the citizens. mr president, that is the only thing that should move this european parliament. we are the representatives of the people of europe and they must be the reference point for our action. we are living at a very important time for europe. we have seen this since yesterday, with the situation in kosovo. europe must give expression to the expectations that europeans have of us. europe cannot play the ostrich. europe must have a voice in the world, it must be present and it must solve the problems that arise today, whether it is climate change, whether it is the fight against illegal immigration, whether it is the fight against nuclear proliferation. we have to deal with those problems. the lisbon treaty, and that is the key point, ladies and gentlemen, gives us the instruments and the strength to do so; it is clear that the political will to do so will be needed later, but we have in this treaty instruments to improve the present situation. let me say a word about building, about doing things together. that, i said before, is europe. well, supporting the lisbon treaty means doing things together, following the same path. it is true, as i said before, that we have abandoned some things. paul valéry, who was a great poet and, therefore, perhaps also a great european, said of every poem that it is never finished, it is only abandoned. it is true that we have left some things behind, but it is also true that in the future, if we have to recover them, this european parliament will be at the forefront. (applause) i would like to thank
the chairman of the council. - thank you, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the presidency, i welcome this opportunity to discuss the lisbon treaty. first of all, i would like to thank the european parliament for the work it has done, and in particular for the report drawn up by the honourable members richard corbett and méndez de vigo. we agree, and i should say this at the outset, with the positive assessment of many elements of this new treaty. the fact is that europe has been facing challenges for some time, both internally and externally, in the international community. and that is why reforms are unquestionably necessary. and it is this desire, the desire to continue the process of strengthening the european union's effectiveness and its democratic legitimacy, that led the leaders of the member states to sign this treaty in lisbon last december. there has been a lot of talk about the many benefits that the lisbon treaty brings. so let me just say the essentials. first, it will ensure that the institutions, all the institutions that sustain or link the 27 member states, work more efficiently. it will increase the efficiency and simplification of decision-making procedures. it will increase the democratic nature and transparency of the operation. and it will bring, a very important element, bring the workings of the european union closer to its citizens. the common objective of all of us is that the lisbon treaty should enter into force on 1 january 2009. to achieve this, our first priority is now, of course, the ratification of the lisbon treaty by all member states. let me take this opportunity to congratulate the five member states that have already done so. the presidency is aware that the ratification procedures are the exclusive, sovereign competence of the member states. however, i think we can all afford to express the wish that these proceedings should proceed smoothly and without complications. we are convinced that the treaty of lisbon is a good instrument, a good document, which will make it easier to face the challenges facing the european union today. the full implementation and application of the lisbon treaty will of course require certain preparatory actions. the presidency is aware of the complexity of this issue and the related need for a single framework within which these preparatory actions should be conducted. we have established closer cooperation with the next french presidency, as well as with other institutions. the presidency will ensure that this work, the preparatory work, is carried out under the supervision of the highest political level, the european council, which will be kept regularly informed of progress. i would stress that many aspects of the new treaty can only be put into effect, either on a proposal from the european commission or in close cooperation with the european parliament. the presidency is aware of these aspects and will in any event guide the preparation by involving all the actors concerned. let me conclude by saying that everyone involved in the preparatory work so far has acted responsibly. we would like to see this practice continue, as this is the best way to contribute to the successful ratification and implementation of the lisbon treaty.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first of all can i say welcome to this report and congratulate both rapporteurs for their work in bringing it to plenary. the commission, of course, fully shares the view that the treaty of lisbon is a very positive step for the future of the union. as we have already heard, it will bring us further down the road to a more effective, more democratic and more transparent union. in politics it is important to do the right things, because that is what gives us democratic legitimacy. but it is equally important to do things right. so what we are doing in choosing the political agenda of climate change and energy, roaming charges, toy and food safety, transport policy or agricultural policy or trade or what have you, is extremely important, and we are not going to put our feet up until the new treaty is in force. but, at the same time, we must also look at the other side of the coin, how we do things and how the treaty will change the way we do things; how we can become more effective in taking decisions and furthering the political agenda and the priorities of this european union. one of the core elements of this treaty is how it strengthens europe’s democratic legitimacy through changing the role of parliament, more codecision, a greater say in budgetary matters and international agreements, and a direct link between the results of the european elections and the choice of the commission president. it will also provide channels for the greater involvement of national parliaments. we already have, through these, very positive experience in engaging with national parliaments, in anchoring the policies of the european union, as well as some elements of participatory democracy for the direct participation of citizens. your report, of course, also expresses some concerns on the abandoning of the constitutional approach and on the extension of opt-in arrangements for particular member states. we all know – and i have said this before – that this was the price we had to pay to reach a consensus agreement, and i guess we all realise that nothing is perfect – not even the new reform treaty is perfect. it is a compromise, but it is something that we have been able to agree upon. ratification is now under way but, with five member states having approved the treaty and ten more having launched their procedures, there is clearly still a long way to go, and there is no inevitability about the process. in the mean time, we need to prepare for what we hope will be the entry into force of the treaty at the beginning of next year, and the slovenian presidency has presented a list of issues where action needs to be taken for its implementation. preliminary discussions have already taken place on a number of issues, and these will continue over the coming months. some of these issues are subject to commission proposals, for example, the citizens’ initiative, which is an important provision to help connect the union with citizens. i am willing to do all i can to ensure that europeans can use this new democratic tool as soon as possible after the treaty enters into force. it requires a commission proposal to be ready in time, and at the same time it is important to consult fully before adopting a proposal. we will of course keep you informed of further developments, and we look forward to working together on this issue. communication with citizens during the ratification process – whatever method for ratification is chosen – as outlined by the european council in june, is also vital. for this purpose, and as also recommended in your report, we are working closely with national authorities and the european parliament offices. can i therefore thank you for calling, in your report, for sincere cooperation between eu institutions and national authorities in order to inform european citizens clearly and objectively about the content of the treaty. this is fully in line with our approach, and we are pleased to share with parliament and its offices in the member states our communication products and information materials on the treaty – and we have good things to communicate: a treaty that will give us the tools to move forward in developing the policies that the opinion polls tell us, every time, our citizens want: climate change and energy, migration issues, growth and jobs, the environment and, of course, the eu’s role on the global scene. these are the things that will help us to do both the right things and do them right.
opinion of the committee on international trade and development - mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done and thank them for having chosen, perhaps as an exception to what usually happens in this house, to take up the main suggestion made by the committee on international trade concerning the drafting of the treaty of lisbon. the fact is that this treaty maintains the essence of the european constitution in this area, and that is very important, because, in addition to re-emphasizing that the common commercial policy is an exclusive competence of the union and extending its scope, it also introduces the community method for decision-making in it, which means more democracy and more efficiency, which, after all, is the great message that we must convey to the citizens from the treaty of lisbon. i was a member of the convention. i am proud that the treaty of lisbon contains the essence of the constitution we drew up then, which was endorsed by most countries at the time, but i also say, as did the rapporteur, mr méndez de vigo, that this is not the end of the road, it is not the end of history. the commission's proposal is therefore not a good one. so we have the reality, which is good - this treaty - and we have the horizon, which will be better in the future with what we achieve.
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the report by my esteemed colleagues corbett and méndez de vigo, because it is a report which is in keeping with what the european parliament has done since its inception. i am sure that presidents like schuman, spaak or adenauer would sign the treaty of lisbon, especially because the line which was defined by the spinelli treaty, which was precisely the one which inspired the line which was set out in the constitution in the mid-1980s, has now led to the treaty of lisbon in an open constituent process, which is that of the european union. in this respect, i believe that the report supports and endorses the progress that has been made. but at the same time it is a report which is part of that will to consolidate the european union as a political and democratic union. i would like to make a comment on the lessons we have to learn and, in particular, on the ratification of the constitutional treaty. i hear a lot of talk about referendums from those who are against us moving forward. i participated, of course, in the referendum we held in my country and won. there is a lesson to be learned: what we decide together cannot be subordinated, cannot be held hostage, to what a small minority decides. we have to reflect as democrats on how we ratify our will all together. it is not acceptable that we should all depend on what a small minority can do, and i think that is an important lesson for the future. mr president, i would like to conclude by saying that the european parliament has always been at the forefront of europe's progress. this means that we have to start working on a significant number of political decisions that have to be taken even before the next elections, because there is a reality and that is that this treaty must enter into force on 1 january 2009. from the point of view of democracy, codecision, appointments and the adaptation of the european parliament, much remains to be done. (applause) i would like to thank
the chairman of the council. − it was a great pleasure to be present at this very interesting and dynamic debate. let me summarize my comments in three sets. firstly, the preparatory actions, the actions that must be taken in order for the lisbon treaty to be in force, when and if it is to be fully implemented. there are many such activities. it is necessary to prepare the election of the president of the european council, the election of the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy, the establishment of a common foreign service, and the organisation of activities in the fields of justice and home affairs. however, these activities must be treated with patience and responsibility. i am sure that no one wants to give the impression that the institutions of the european union and the member states are trying to cut as much of the cake as possible before it is fully baked. it is therefore necessary to bear in mind that the fact that preparatory actions have to be carried out does not alter the fact that the member states, that is to say the national parliaments, and in one case the electorate, will have the final say in the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. i now turn to the dilemma which has been mentioned many times today and which has been widely discussed in recent years: referendum or parliamentary ratification? i would like to thank mrs doyle, mr mitchell and others who have pointed out that the decisions of the member states must be respected. in my opening remarks, i stressed that the decision on the manner of ratification of the lisbon treaty is the sole sovereign competence of each member state and is also the responsibility of each member state. nevertheless, i would add this: there is nothing wrong with parliamentary ratification. i don't know anything. all the member states of the european union are parliamentary democracies, representative democracies. and finally, the symbol, and a powerful symbol, of representative democracy is also this high house, the european parliament. and now for the meaning of ratification itself. i think that the ratification of the lisbon treaty needs to be seen not only in the context of the present, but also in the light of the past and with a vision for the future. i would like to mention what has been said by mr schulz and some others. we must remember what was happening on our continent a hundred and seventy-five years ago and perhaps, in the case of my country, twenty years or less ago. in short, it is the past that must constantly remind us that it is the european union that has made the most significant contribution to peace, stability and prosperity on the continent. but we must also consider the future. we must prepare for the challenges that lie ahead for the european union, and they are already evident. and our view remains that the lisbon treaty is a step forward, a step in the right direction, to provide us with answers to the challenges we can already see on the horizon.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, this has indeed been a lively and interesting debate, on which i would like to make three remarks. first of all, i will deal with implementation, since several of you have raised particular, specific issues on implementation and follow-up. i would also like to say something about the discussion on democracy that has taken place here, and to link that to communication and debate. to start with the questions from mr deprez, mr dehaene, mr barón crespo and mr duff, several of you have asked about what happens now in terms of preparing for the implementation of the new reform treaty. i expect that preparations are going on in all the institutions, in that we are looking at what will be required of our respective institutions – in the case of the commission coming forward with specific legislative proposals – and what this will take in terms of interinstitutional cooperation and practical preparations. this will have to be done with full respect for the ratification process that is now going on. our approach in the commission has been to do this in a formally absolutely correct way and to respect the ratification processes – not to anticipate but to be prepared. i believe this has also been the approach in the council, where an inventory has been carried out, and we are, of course, looking in the same way at the obligations that will fall on the commission. we will, of course, cooperate with parliament and will sit down and look at what has to be done in practical terms. it is good that a discussion is also under way in the respective institutions to ensure that everything is ready and can be handled in a formally absolutely correct way. we are getting ready, of course, to start the practical work. a lot has been said about democracy, bringing to mind what churchill, who has already been referred to, said about it: ‘democracy is the worst form of government except for all those other forms that have been tried from time to time’. whichever ratification method is chosen – and it is up to every government and every member state to decide which one to use – the commission will respect it, and will also consider ratification by national parliaments to be democratically legitimate. whichever method is chosen, there will have to be communication with citizens. i would inform everyone who has asked for a consolidated text that the message from the council is that such a text will be produced, hopefully as soon as possible, and that in the spring we will definitely have a consolidated text from the council. i know that, to date, a good dozen consolidated texts are available in different language versions. i know that the house of lords has produced a consolidated text; i know that the french senate has produced a consolidated text; and i know it also exists in germany. it is available on the internet. this means that one cannot use the lack of available information as an excuse. all the texts are available, and there is also information available on the commission’s website, which gives questions and answers and factual information about the treaty, relating to the specific substantial issues. there is an obligation on all of us to help citizens to have access to all the factual information that they need, and also to have answers to their specific questions. in response to what mr rübig said, we know from previous eurobarometer opinion polls that people are interested in the substantial issues first and foremost, and not so much in the institutional issues. but i expect that several member states will also carry out specific opinion polls to check on public opinion in the respective member states. we will see more of this in the coming months. the commission will monitor these issues in general, through the eurobarometer. please refer citizens and everyone you meet to our new website, which is called ‘debate europe’. we have relaunched ‘debate europe’ to include the new reform treaty. follow the debate, and please encourage people to make interventions and participate in the debate on the internet. let me also say that i hope we can engage young people and women in this debate, because in talking about democracy and representative democracy, we also want to see more women in the debate, hopefully also as leaders of our institutions and of the european union in the future. if women do not see that they are represented, they will hesitate before they give their support to our different projects and decisions. so this is also a democratic task and mission for all of us. finally, mr nassauer made a very important point about the national parliaments and how we can follow up in this area and ensure it is complementary. the increased and strengthened role of the european parliament fits well with anchoring this matter into national parliamentary procedures in every member state. this is also something we will have to prepare properly and thoroughly, with the national parliaments. they have a big role which should be fully prepared. thank you for this debate. the commission will work closely with parliament and with the council in order to prepare for implementation and will definitely make every effort to communicate and make sure that people have access to all the information and the debate fora that they need to discuss the future of europe.
the rapporteur. - mr president, today we have been talking about the construction of europe from a historical point of view. the european union we have built over the last 50 years is the europe of debate and dialogue, the europe of respect for the other, the europe of putting ourselves in the other's shoes in order to understand him. and this view has been emphasized by the vast majority of this house in the debate we have had today. but there was also another europe present in that debate, mr president, the europe i call the three-tier europe: the europe of contention, the europe of disqualification and the europe of contempt. and that europe is not to the liking of the democrats, because we believe that it can be debated, it must be debated, it must be discussed, but it must not be disqualified. i think, mr president, that a lot of things have been said here today, some of them quite wrong. i shall refer to one in particular: when it is said that this treaty of lisbon incorporates new doses of qualified majority, it is true, but it is not said that the treaty of lisbon implies greater involvement of the european parliament. how can you be a member of this house and not want it to be able to have a greater say in political decisions affecting europeans? i would like to conclude, mr president, by quoting miguel de cervantes, who, as an elderly man near the end of his life, said that there were times when you had to choose between being an inn and being a road. to be an innkeeper is to stay where you are. to be a path is to go forward. i hope, mr president, that, as my political group will do, and as most of the political groups in this house will do, we will vote yes to the lisbon treaty with our hearts and our minds. let us give a democratic vote to those who want more europe for all europeans! (applause)
the next item is the report by monica frassoni, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the twenty-third annual report of the commission on monitoring the application of community law (2005) (2006/2271 (ini)) (a6- 462/2007).
mr president, one is aware of the importance of the task of ensuring that community law is applied. we are talking about relations between a supranational institution and national governments. national governments are strong entities, with a lot of power, they are public administrations. the commission is normally the guardian of european union law and for citizens, in many cases, it is the only guarantee they have that the law - because community law is law - is correctly applied. the aim of mrs frassoni's report is to strengthen what i would call the backbone of the commission, so that the commission is aware of the importance of this task and so that 'even if it is a question at an earlier stage of negotiating with the governments the difficulties that may arise' at the moment of truth, the commission acts as citizens expect, with strength, with vigor and applying the rules of community law. it is worrying that after enlargement the commission seems to be applying less stringent criteria to the new member states than it did to the old ones. this would be bad for the consolidation of the european union and for the reputation of the european union itself in those member states. i have followed many infringement procedures by the commission and i can assure the commission that when it intervenes, citizens, and even public administrations, feel empowered by the commission's action in this area. i believe that the european parliament's report, mrs frassoni's proposal and also mrs wallis's opinion are intended to strengthen the commission, so that the commission does not consider itself alone and helpless in the face of governments, but that it can count on the european parliament to strengthen its supervisory and control role in the application of community law.
the chairman of the council. - i would like to make a final comment on behalf of the presidency, which is aware that effective control of the application of community law is essential for the respect of the law in general and for the guarantee of the general principles of law on which the community operates. above all, it is also important for ensuring the legal security of european citizens. it must not be forgotten that they play an important role in the implementation of community law, and that role is also reflected in the number of complaints from citizens concerning infringements of community law. in the debate, which i listened to very attentively, there was a few expressions of surprise at the fact that the number of infringements, or at least the number of infringements detected, had not increased significantly since the enlargement of the european union. on several occasions, doubts were even expressed that the commission might not be as strict towards the so-called new member states. i should point out that the bureau has no grounds or evidence to support such suspicions. there is at least one possible explanation for this which i can offer, namely that, in the case of the so-called new member states, it must nevertheless be borne in mind that they became members after a long period of intensive transposition of community law into their internal legal order and that it is likely that they have since then no longer had such difficulties in doing so on a reduced scale. just to comment on the suspicion, expressed on several occasions, that the commission may not be equally strict with all member states. it is also appropriate for the commissioner to comment on this. finally, i would like to stress that the presidency attaches great importance to the common commitments and objectives set out in the institutional agreement on better lawmaking. finally, i would like to encourage all the institutions and the member states to fulfil their obligations in the area of the transposition and application of community law.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i have already said that this debate today should not be left without consequences, and i want to reiterate that. i shall report to mr jung on the content of this debate and on the suggestions made by parliament and also make suggestions to that effect, because in this debate some very important proposals have been made which the commission should take seriously. let me make one more legal philosophical remark: a community of law is based on trust. it can only work if those involved can trust each other. that is why, in a state of law, trials must be public, and that is why i fully agree with what mrs wallis has said. information is an absolute must here, and transparency is an absolute must. there can be no secret policy in the application and interpretation of the law. everything has to be open and public. that is the conclusion i draw from this debate and that has always been my conviction. i agree with mrs wallis on the role of the committee on petitions. i'm happy to admit, as your client, that sometimes it takes a lot of work and a lot of effort. but the citizens are entitled to our making the effort. and from the petitions that come in, we learn a lot about how our law and our policy actually reaches the citizens. mrs frassoni, mr wallström has already promised you that we will be doing a citizens' summary in the future. the commission has now formally decided to do so, and it is now being done, and you will certainly find ways and means of monitoring very closely that we are complying with this. it's decided, and it's going to happen. several members have been thinking about the question of new member countries and how it is that despite an increase in membership we have not had an increase in infringement proceedings. the commission has a very clear view on this. there are two reasons: firstly - and now i am in a bit of an awkward position, because i should actually say that this is due to the good work of the former enlargement commissioner - it is because in fact the new members were so precisely prepared for the acquis that they had a higher level of compliance with the acquis at the time of accession than the old ones. i can only confirm that. that is the plain truth. we could not have concluded the accession treaties if the acquis had not been respected. the other reason is perhaps a bit more practical: citizens in the new member states will probably have to learn gradually that they can complain and how they can complain. i therefore expect the number of procedures to increase. mr smith had spoken about the need for the law to be simple and applicable, especially in relation to environmental law. as you know, the commission is working to review all european community law by the end of next year to see where and how it can be simplified, and we promised a few days ago in our presentation of the status of the better regulation project that this overall process will indeed be completed by the end of next year. mr medina, you don't have to worry about the commission dropping complaints under the table. i can assure you from my own experience - more than eight years now - as a member of the commission that i have had to curb the commission's departments' eagerness to take on the heavy armor of infringement proceedings far more often than i have had to encourage them to do so. it is much more common that i have to say: "slow down, talk to them first, see if you can solve this peacefully". the risk of commission departments being prone to let something slip under the table is therefore negligible. that's not happening. on the question raised by mr rack: decisions on infringement proceedings, both on initiation and closure and on every single step in between, require a formal decision by the college. it's organized. i cannot give you a straight answer to what you have said about the specific problem of cross-subsidization. i will arrange for you to receive an answer later this week. in the comments made by mr kuc on the length of the pre-trial detention, i admit that if it were to happen, it would be a scandal, but it is outside the competence of the european union. in such cases, the european court of human rights has jurisdiction. ladies and gentlemen, i am grateful to you for the many suggestions and the constructive spirit of this debate, and i am quite sure that when we discuss it again next year we will have made further progress.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
the next item on the agenda is also extremely important and topical. these are the statements by the council and the commission on kosovo.
mr president, the meeting of the council of ministers on 18 february will not go down in the annals of the union as a particularly glorious date. instead of seeking a solution among 27, the hot potato of recognition has been left to the member states to decide. it is frustrating that, whenever we have to make a decision on a sensitive issue at the heart of our continent and which affects important principles such as the inviolability of borders, we are not able to speak with one voice. and to complicate matters, the council's conclusions refer to international law. it is true that this parliament, like other bodies of the union, approved the ahtisaari plan, but not as a blank check, but with the understanding that this plan would have the approval of the united nations security council. obviously, this has not been the case and several conclusions must be drawn. the first is that it has been said that this case will not set a precedent, that it is a sui generis case, as mr wurtz reminded us in his speech. we must ask ourselves whether we are a community of law or not. and it is not possible to be a community of law to the letter. it is clear that this case is going to set a precedent and when one jumps on the bull's head of international law, it is not free and unfortunately there will be consequences. secondly, mr president, how long are we going to have to live with a united nations security council in which there is an anachronistic right of veto by the victors of the second world war, as enshrined in the charter of san francisco in 1945? this is not the way to build an international order or to develop a fair and effective multilateralism. and thirdly, mr president, either the european union learns once and for all that unity is our strength and fragmentation our weakness, or we will have to renounce our vocation as international leaders in this globalised world and limit ourselves to being, as the economist put it, the most prosperous region, yes, of the third world in the 21st century.
mr president, the debate is already quite advanced; i do not think i can contribute much to it, even in passionate terms, but i do think it is important that we look at the importance of international law and international commitments. in 1991, on 16 december, the ministers of the european union adopted guidelines on the recognition of new states in eastern europe and the soviet union, which affirmed respect for the inviolability of all borders, which could only be changed by peaceful means and by common agreement. secondly, the resolution under which there is currently a european presence in kosovo - un security council resolution 1244 - specifically states that the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity of the federal republic of yugoslavia and the other countries in the region must be respected. international law, the commitments of the european countries and the resolutions of the united nations have been violated. the consequences will be costly for all of us.
mr president, i regret the unilateral declaration of independence by kosovo. this is not good news for europe. it is the latest link in a chain of failures: a failure of coexistence, which led to the crisis of 1999, a failure of the parties and of the international community itself to reach an agreed solution and a failure of the security council. there is a fear that the entity that some are so quick to recognize will be another failure. it must provide a framework for democratic and secure coexistence, in which citizens prosper and minority rights are respected; it must also avoid being a problem for the stability of the region. ladies and gentlemen, the european union has also failed, as it has not succeeded in reaching a solution in its neighbourhood in accordance with international law. europe must mean union, not separation; agreement, not unilateralism; law, not fact; integration, not ethnic division. we europeans have a great responsibility in this matter: we were the majority in the contact group, the united nations special envoy and his team were europeans, it was the european council that in december hastily decided to send a mission to kosovo without any legal basis. i recall that paragraph 15 of this parliament's resolution in march read: 'it considers that the adoption of a new un security council resolution is also essential for the future involvement of the european union in kosovo, and that no further eu involvement should be envisaged in the absence of such a resolution.' the circumstances of the kosovo case are exceptional. however, there are irresponsible people who want to alter the borders of european countries and use this as a precedent. the need to reiterate the inviolability of the borders of the eu member states arises from this.
the chairman of the council. − at the african union summit in lisbon on 9 december last year, it was agreed to establish a strategic partnership covering all areas and issues of common interest to both sides. i would like to highlight in particular the adoption of three important documents at this summit: the lisbon declaration, the joint africa-european union strategy and its first action plan. the first action plan of the joint strategy also establishes a partnership between africa and the european union in the areas of migration, mobility and employment. the africa-european union partnership on migration, mobility and employment is intended to provide integrated responses to these diverse issues, with the specific objective of creating more and better jobs for africans and better managing migration flows. in the meantime, the competent council bodies are examining what further action should be taken on the basis of the lisbon summit decisions and the joint africa-european union strategy and its first action plan, including the partnership on migration.
the question is, madam president, what kind of measures can be taken effectively, because the pressure of migration on europe is still very strong, as a result of the distressing social and economic situation in many african countries. the specific question i wanted to ask was whether the council actually has any concrete plans at the moment, because time is passing, the african situation is not improving and, in particular, many european countries are complaining about uncontrolled immigration and the inability of the european institutions to control it. what are we doing specifically at the moment? or what can we expect in the short term?
mr president, commissioner, thank you very much for your presence in this very interesting debate. i would also like to thank mrs castex for having prepared this report and for allowing us to delve into a reflection which is helping us a lot. in a country like my own, spain, which is experiencing a demographic crisis, if anything more serious than the average in the european union, these kinds of communications from the commission, these debates, help us a lot - because it is a deep, structural and not cyclical problem - they take the problem out of the national political debate and give it a much greater breadth and capacity for analysis and response. as the commissioner has said, we are facing a problem, but we are also facing an opportunity. the opportunity should be to tackle this problem, not just in its effects - that there are more elderly people in europe, that europe is ageing - but also in its causes. we must prevent this aging of europe, because we cannot prevent more people from getting older: science and medicine have brought us to this point and will continue to advance. the problem, as other colleagues have said, is that we need policies on births, demographic policies, we need children in europe, that is what we are lacking. we must work in all areas, but knowing that this is a serious, beautiful problem that we will pass on to future generations if we do not lay the foundations for its solution now. i am one of those who believe that europe, in its social model, is not the problem; on the contrary, it can be the solution. the ageing of europe and the lack of births in europe would be even more serious without our social system. other societies, for example, china, where they will experience very similar phenomena, will pay even harsher consequences than we do for the lack of efficient, intelligent and rational social models. because the problem, ultimately, is going to be that change is inevitable and we're going to have to change. our social system can be changed in its techniques without changing its values. and it seems to me that the fundamental issues are solidarity, reconciling family and professional life - to give new opportunities for families to have new generations in their midst - the welcome of migrants, not as a burden, not as something negative for our societies, but as a phenomenon which, if we know how to integrate it, will help us to face this problem again. finally, there is a need for a major reflection on the role of women in our society, reflection which must be carried out, as always, in the light of solidarity. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, let me once again acknowledge the quality of mrs castex's report, because it is clear that it has been the basis for a debate which has covered virtually all the main issues. it would be very difficult to respond to all the suggestions, so let me just say briefly that the basic concept of the european commission that appears in our documents is based on equality of opportunity, in no case does the idea that demographic change is a one-sex affair appear in any of the documents. it is quite clear that this is a question of equal opportunities and equal status for men and women. it is also clear that one of the answers is the active society, that is to say the society with the widest social inclusion, the society which is able to open the way to active employment for as many of its individuals as possible. however, let me say that in the course of the previous debates, it was possible to create a more stable basis for the demographic debate, including the demographic forum of the alliance for families. i would also like to point out that the commission is working on the possibility of legal initiatives in the area of reconciliation of work and private life in the debate with the social partners. the commission is also paying attention to immigration, both in its gradual attempt to create a more coherent european policy and in its blue card proposals. ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to say that, despite the fact that, as in every debate, there are marginal opinions, there is a clear general consensus emerging in the debate, and this consensus corresponds very well, in my view, to the basic proposals put forward by the commission at the beginning of this european demographic debate. as i have already said, we have succeeded in creating a more stable base, and i therefore expect that this debate will continue, because i share the conviction of practically all of you that the demographic development of europe is a fundamental component that will determine our future, both in the medium and long term.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the commission statement on scientific cooperation with africa.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, the world economy is increasingly being shaped by technological innovation. developing countries should use technology to innovate to improve the lives of their poor and to boost the competitiveness of countries and businesses. it is true that most developing countries have already opened up their economies, but they still remain trapped in the production of commodities with low value-added and low-skilled labour. developing countries must therefore develop their productive capacities and diversify their economies through greater application of new knowledge and technologies in agriculture, manufacturing and services. african scientists and engineers are currently under-represented in international r&d projects, including those supported by public funds from the european union. this is partly due to a lack of expertise in building the necessary research capacities, networks and partnerships, and a lack of capacity to deal with intellectual property rights, contract management, technology transfer and dissemination of research results. at the same time, it must be said that many global problems, such as infectious diseases and species diversity, can only be effectively tackled with the involvement of the countries concerned. african politicians are aware of this and are trying to put science and technology at the forefront of their agenda. in september 2005, the consolidated action plan of the nepad initiative new partnership for the development of africa was endorsed by the african ministerial conference on science and technology. and the african union commission last year in january 2007 called on the african union summit to take the initiative in building large scientific and technical capacities to train large numbers of scientists, engineers and technicians. the year 2008 was declared the african year of science. the european commission recognises the importance of this issue and is increasingly placing science and technology on the agenda of development aid negotiations. in principle, african scientists have the possibility to participate in the commission's framework programme for research and the 'marie curie' action providing scholarships to scientists from third countries, including developing countries. in order to increase knowledge in the field of science and technology in the acp countries, the ninth european development fund allocated eur 35.5 million to a programme to build scientific and technical capacity within the acp. negotiations are currently under way with our partners for further support under the 10th european development fund. the european union and africa also agreed to an eu-africa partnership on information society, science and space technologies at the eu-africa summit in lisbon late last year. this partnership will contribute to bridging the gaps in science, strengthening africa's science and technology capacities and increasing the use of science and technology as a key enabler of poverty reduction, economic growth and socio-economic development. this will also include assistance under the african consolidated science and technology action plan. this partnership will also promote an appropriate division of tasks between member states. in this context, some member states are taking the lead in specific sectors e.g. the netherlands in horticulture or sweden in water management research.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, mr commissioner, we are reflecting here today - since we are not going to debate, because we are not in a position at this time to have a big debate - on the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the parliamentary groups to support measures to improve the development of science in africa and to allow a more intensive, more fluid relationship with the european union than has hitherto been taking place in the field of applied science and technology. the meeting, which took place in lisbon, the second africa/european union meeting - the first was in cairo in 2000 - once again underlined the importance of this dimension, this area of science and technology, for the future development of africa. in 2010 an assessment of the development of the decisions taken in those agreements will be established at that lisbon meeting between africa and the european union. we are now going to adopt a resolution which aims to have the same effect from the european parliament, which follows the example of that meeting in lisbon, but not only that meeting, but which in some way follows various initiatives which are now being developed in many parts of the world with regard to africa. now that china, as a large country, as a large geographical, political, cultural and economic area, is beginning to have a major development, as is india and many asian countries, more than ever eyes have turned to africa. and they have become, in addition, with a new feature, taking a qualitative step with respect to the past. they have returned not from charity, which has characterized, to a large extent, the relationship of the west with africa, but from closeness, equality, partnership, etc. in this sense, especially in the field of science and technology, there is still a long way to go, because work has been done in other areas such as health, education, etc., but not much has been done in the field of science and technology. on the contrary, the benefits it can bring to africa's development and to africa's full integration into globalisation, from which it is somehow excluded - i quote - will be extraordinarily important. i therefore believe that this resolution which parliament will vote on tomorrow is an impulse, a stimulus in that direction which i believe is fundamental for africa and for the future of the world.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important motion for a resolution, because we have often spoken about africa in this parliament, but rarely about scientific cooperation with this continent. today, the economic and social development of peoples is inseparable from scientific research, technological development and innovation. in addition, in a globalised world, many of the problems that science has yet to solve require the cooperation of all without exclusion, especially in specific sectors such as energy, climate change or food security. scientific cooperation for development must therefore be a priority in our overall strategy of cooperation with african countries. this requires increasing the participation of scientists in joint r & d projects, encouraging exchanges and mobility of research staff, strengthening research infrastructures in line with the needs of the scientific community and, above all, supporting what already exists. ladies and gentlemen, i have just returned from south africa as a member of the delegation from this parliament. with the republic of south africa, for example, there has been an agreement on scientific and technological cooperation for ten years. it is precisely for this reason that commissioner potočnik visited the country last november. this cooperation agreement is bearing fruit to the benefit of both sides: south african scientists have participated in 117 research projects under the sixth framework programme, a participation rate only behind that of the united states, china and the russian federation, and an even higher participation rate is planned for the seventh framework programme. this cooperation takes place in fields as diverse as biotechnology, health, nanotechnologies, aeronautics, transport, energy or climate change. it is a cooperation which we as europeans must support, because we share many problems which require urgent solution, and because joining forces in research and development, innovation and technology transfer can only be beneficial for both sides. one example is energy, which is also a very hot topic in that country. we are seeking the same thing: to ensure supply at an affordable price and in an environmentally friendly way. in this connection, very interesting research projects are being developed in coal technologies, renewable energy and energy efficiency. another important area of scientific cooperation with south africa and with africa in general which should be highlighted is aids, a disease which is wreaking havoc on the continent and which, in a country like south africa, has reduced life expectancy by more than 10 years. i therefore think it is very important that the resolution makes special reference to research into this disease. finally, i would like to stress that all cooperation must always be strengthened by an exchange of information, frank and open dialogue and sincere recognition on both sides.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, the european union bases its policy towards africa on a comprehensive strategy, and part of that strategy is, of course, africa's access to science and technology. the european union recognises the importance of this approach as it enables the african continent to address the challenges posed by climate change. the commission believes that african countries at high risk from climate change urgently need to develop appropriate comprehensive adaptation strategies, while ensuring that these changes do not jeopardise the achievements of the countries in the fight against poverty. in this context, the commission believes that cooperation in the field of science and technology is of particular importance, especially in the case of agricultural research and monitoring of agricultural crops. the commission therefore supports the efforts of the african union to develop a comprehensive agricultural scientific research agenda, as well as the efforts of international organisations to harmonise early warning systems for agricultural crops and the transfer of renewable energy technologies, which is an issue related to the reduction of co2 emissions, but this transfer should primarily be related to efforts to achieve sustainable and efficient energy supply and access rather than to climate change issues. the private sector, which the commission supports through the geefref programme, plays a very important role in the context of technology transfer. as for the addis ababa conference in march this year, the european commission will be attending this conference and hopes that it can be seen as a milestone for scientific cooperation with the african continent and for the development of science and technology on the african continent. the debate also touched on the subject of aids. let me just say very briefly that the european commission is one of the biggest contributors to the global fund to fight aids, tuberculosis and malaria, and i think we can be rightly proud of that. as i mentioned, at the end of last year, the european union and the african union also agreed on a partnership between europe and africa in the field of information society, science and space technologies at the africa-eu summit in lisbon. we are currently preparing a communication that will follow up this partnership with a concrete action plan and action points. ladies and gentlemen, i think i cannot agree with the honourable member that the lisbon conference was a disappointment. it was certainly not, it was one step along the way and, as i have already said, we are following up with further concrete steps to develop the momentum that was set in lisbon.
the debate is closed by a motion for a resolution (see minutes) tabled in accordance with rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
madam president, i should like to begin by thanking mrs kallenbach and especially mr guellec for the work they have done on these reports and which has made possible a majority agreement within the committee on regional development. the european cohesion policy has been an example of a successful policy in the european union, fulfilling the principles on which it is based and contributing to the elimination of inequalities. countries such as spain have achieved undeniable results in convergence thanks to cohesion policy. we therefore reaffirm the role it has played in strengthening the capacity of member states for development and job creation by making progress in human capital formation. but we must also assume that territorial inequalities persist and that is why we must respond firmly in order to move forward with a policy that faces new challenges such as ageing or depopulation processes in certain areas, especially in rural areas. we must highlight the challenges that remain in order to reduce regional and interregional disparities and achieve economic and technological development, for which the approach to implementing the lisbon strategy must be a priority, without forgetting other elements such as demographic change. in order to achieve a balanced and sustainable development of the union's regional policy, it should be conducted in close cooperation with regional actors and in coordination with other policies. we are also aware of the need to promote concrete measures to reduce the disparities between accessible regions and regions with structural disadvantages, such as mountainous, island or sparsely populated regions. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is a step in the right direction. yesterday we in this parliament approved the treaty of lisbon by a large majority, and today we must promote a new element of this treaty, which establishes territorial cohesion as a fundamental objective of the union in order to move towards a more prosperous future for europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to take this opportunity at the end of the debate to thank members for all their contributions. there are many points to which i cannot respond now, owing to the lack of time, but which i will take with me. these include the concerns expressed with regard to small and medium-sized towns, as well as the issue raised about urban transport development. there is a clear link between the past and the future in your reports. you are in fact building a bridge, which is why i would like to say a few words on the stage reached in the public consultations on the future of european cohesion policy. we launched those consultations at the end of september 2007, and to date more than 100 well-elaborated statements and opinions have been submitted, not only by national, regional and local governments, but also by a number of european spatial planning associations, as well as economic and social partners, academics, research institutions and private citizens. at the request of one of the governments, we have extended the consultations until mid-february, because there are still opinions being prepared. a preliminary assessment of those opinions clearly shows there is overwhelming and impressive support for the policy. the direct impact on growth and development is pointed to, as is the fact that this is a policy that triggers new ways of thinking and also performs a very effective leverage role by attracting additional financial resources. there is strong interest in the delivery mechanism and broad support for all the principles we have jointly developed with the european parliament in recent years. there is also strong support for the need for this policy to respond to the challenges that you have been discussing today, and which are linked not only to globalisation, but also to demography, climate and energy, and restructuring in general, with strong support for the integrated approach. one of the issues of importance you have raised today is how we will proceed with the green paper, which will be adopted by the commission in september. we will then have a broad period – probably of four months – for discussion in all formats, not only on the web. in the mean time, our services are organising a meeting with the key stakeholders for mid-april. this will help us to take into account further views. i would be prepared, if there is such a need, to organise a hearing with parliament’s committee on regional development and with any other institution interested in sharing with us its views on the green paper, ahead of its adoption by the commission. another issue raised, which is also a concern for the commission, was that of statistics and indicators. through our analytical institution, espon, which we have strengthened very substantially, including financially, for the years to come, and which now has a significantly higher budget, we will endeavour to measure some of the new dimensions and some of the existing dimensions of territorial cohesion. that work is ongoing, and we hope to have the results soon. i can assure you that the commission will also continue to look into appropriate indicators to complement both the gdp and employment indicators, and will in the fifth cohesion report propose a new composite type of indicator. thank you very much for all your comments. i would especially like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributing to the debate – not just in the past, but also in the future.
the debate is closed. the reports will be put to the vote at the voting part-session which begins in a few minutes. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
mr president, in consultation with the political groups which have signed the joint resolution, we would like to ask for a change in the structure of paragraph 3. it is not an oral amendment, because we do not want to add or remove any words, but simply to keep the text in its present form, but by breaking it down into three separate paragraphs. it would read as follows, mr president, so that there is no doubt:3. reiterates its call for an immediate cessation of all acts of violence;4. calls on israel to cease military actions that endanger and cause deaths to the population and the selective extrajudicial executions;5. calls on hamas, after the illegal takeover of the gaza strip, to prevent palestinian militias from firing missiles from the gaza strip into israeli territory;therefore, there is no change in the wording, mr president. it is not asked that any words be added or deleted, but simply that this paragraph, as it stands, be divided into three.
author. mr president, i believe that east timor is an example of how self-determination processes can be carried out and done well. it would be good if some of our friends, also in the spanish case, for example, could learn from the portuguese example and take up their responsibilities in regard to other legacies of former colonies, such as western sahara. however, it is also clear that not all of these cases are straightforward or of immediate results. it is worth noting the difficulties facing east timor, where, despite the peaceful elections held a few months ago, major unrest is still taking place, and there has even been an attempt to assassinate president ramos horta - and i also join the greetings sent by this house and the wishes for his speedy recovery - and even by the prime minister himself, xanana gusmão. i think that no one can dispute the willingness to understand shown by ramos horta, among many others, and i am convinced that even after the attack, ramos horta will lead the efforts that are necessary to find a political agreement between the parties currently in conflict in the country that will allow the differences to be settled in a democratic and non-violent framework. but for this to happen, however, the international community must be fully committed and, among other things, the united nations mandate must be renewed, as some countries have suggested, and in any case extended until 2012, always responding to the request and the needs that are emerging from the timorese government itself and the democratic forces themselves. it is also desirable that the united nations presence on the ground should be adapted to the needs of this country and that it should also be reviewed not only in terms of reconstruction and the provision of basic needs but also in terms of its capacity to act preventively and to react when certain disturbances occur. finally, it is urgent that the european union establishes a delegation in dili as soon as possible and that the european parliament can also organise an observer delegation in order to support the democratic forces and to assess the direction and effectiveness of european aid at this time.
the author. - mr president, today's episode is a new chapter in a tragic series, which has as its protagonist the people of the democratic republic of the congo. in this case, the scenario is focused on the north kivu region, but the plot and the victims are the same as those already the subject of an emergency resolution in the january part-session. since 1998, almost five and a half million people have died as a result of war, and another 45 000 people die every month as a direct or indirect result of war. this means, in short, 1 500 people a day, that is to say, since we began this part-session on monday, 6 000 people have already died in the democratic republic of the congo. in recent months, moreover, there has been an increase, particularly in the eastern region, in massacres, the rape of women and girls and the forced recruitment of boys and girls. both laurent nkunda's rebel troops and the fighters of the democratic forces for the liberation of rwanda are responsible for all this. furthermore, it should be recalled that the mandate of monuc is based on chapter vii of the charter of the united nations, which gives it the authority to use all necessary means to deter any attempt to use force that endangers the life or integrity of civilians or that threatens the political process. however, to date, the presence of monuc has proved wholly insufficient to stop the barbarism. it is therefore necessary to call again on the security council to react and to use all the means at its disposal to stop the massacres. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, this is a new opportunity to call, once again, as mr posselt has already said, for the control mechanisms such as the kimberley process, concerning diamonds, to be activated and implemented in the area of certification of origin of natural resources imported into the european union.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, we are concerned about a merger which is not merger at all: it is merging two companies which are complementary. one company, google, which has a lot of data, more data than anyone in the world, and another company, doubleclick, which has the ability to process this data and manipulate this data and channel this data into consumer habits. this should be of concern to the european commission because it is a dangerous marriage for european citizenship, for the privacy of our daily habits. the structure of this merger may jeopardise this privacy and national authorities will not have the ability to know how they are being manipulated and each consumer will not know where their data is going and how their data is being used by third parties.
madam president, we are very pleased to have reached the end of what has been a long battle to improve safety in a basic and fundamental sector for the european economy and competitiveness, whose success and credibility are based precisely on a high level of safety, as is the case in the aviation sector. and this was very clearly seen on 11 september 2001, when security was one of the key elements that had to be strengthened both globally and especially in the sense of, say, the european area. i think that all the efforts, not only in this dossier but in the others that the commission has carried out: the whole issue of blacklists, the whole issue of improving, implementing, security measures, i think are a fundamental element. we are also particularly pleased and congratulate the rapporteur, mr costa, who, with his tenacity - sometimes, it is true, it has been exasperating - has achieved an agreement, and i congratulate him warmly for that. the best one possible. and, in addition, in two fundamental areas. firstly, for security, which was the need, and, specifically, the crucial aspect, which is the financing of that security. we all agree that security is very important, but also who pays for that security and how we try to improve transparency and better delivery. in this respect, i believe that the cooperation of the commission, by providing the study precisely to identify and improve this transparency with the breakdown between taxpayers and users, can also help us to improve and implement future measures. secondly, for parliament as an institution. from the institutional point of view mr costa has succeeded in reinforcing the comitology with control and i believe that this will also improve in the future some of the misunderstandings that have existed in the past in relation, for example, to the issue of liquids, which i believe we must improve. and in the future we hope to complete all these safety dossiers in the aviation sector which are fundamental, with consideration of the essential factor which is the human factor. i also hope that the commissioner can give us an advance on his timetable for the social package for both cabin crew and pilots in all matters relating to training and certification. we know that easa is working well on this, but we would like to see more concrete measures in relation to what is going to be the crucial axis of this increased security.
madam president, mr albertini's report raises the enormous challenge of maintaining the democratic mobility that is achieved by low prices and access to new means and new routes, and also by the free movement of people, goods and services that is the basis for the success of european construction, enlargement and social, economic and territorial cohesion, while at the same time avoiding the heavy impact on the environment, which is mainly due to emissions, not to mention noise, congestion and safety. the challenge is to preserve this positive and necessary mobility, but to do so in the smartest possible way, i.e. to make it sustainable and thereby minimise its impact on our environment and our health. to do this, as mr albertini rightly says in his report, we need innovative means and instruments. i would have liked to have seen the future role of logistics as a tool for smart and rationalised mobility through innovation and planning developed further. i am grateful, however, for the integration of urban logistics into the urban transport aspects and also for the support for priority projects linked to logistics. i also think it is right to integrate airports and to require their connection with railways, and also to emphasize the development of the new concept of 'green corridors' which is still to be built. as regards the tolls - which have been the subject of much discussion here, including the eurovignette - i would certainly like the commission to take the social impact into account in its approach. and then, following on from what some colleagues have said about the need to diversify fuels, i would like to ask the commissioner about the future possibility of including hydro power networks in the transeuropean energy networks.
mr president, external action in 2009 will have to be marked by two fundamental events: firstly, the entry into force of the new treaty, which establishes a new institutional framework in which parliament, mr president of the commission, will want to play its proper role, and secondly, the external action service, which, in our view, should be based at the commission's request and not be swallowed up by the council. beyond this, the priorities put forward by the commission are correct: enlargement; relations with russia based on respect for human rights and security of energy supply; the policy of association and stabilisation in the balkans with the case of kosovo; the neighbourhood policy, with the barcelona process and the mediterranean union to be presented by the french presidency of the union. the situation in central asia, with the conflicts in iran, iraq, afghanistan and pakistan, is also a matter of concern. we will have to look, mr president, at the development of relations with china, india and the asian countries, which are correctly set out in the commission's proposal; at the situation in the middle east, where the european parliament has unconditionally supported the commission's proposal at the paris conference. the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the region, and we are convinced that the development of the region is a key factor in the development of the region. mr president of the commission, we need serious, effective, viable external action by the european union, which must speak with one voice in international forums. we cannot afford to be an international red cross destined to write the check on the great contemporary dramas. the european union must have a global role on the international scene, in accordance with its economic, commercial, financial and industrial weight. we support you in this project, mr president of the commission.
mr president, as coordinator of the epp-ed group in the committee on fisheries, i would like to make the following comments on the common fisheries policy. firstly, with regard to the key actions for 2009, which are listed in point 2 of the annex on sustainable development, it can be seen that the fisheries policy is incorporated into the integrated maritime policy, something which our group does not share, because while it is true that some aspects of the cfp are part of this maritime policy, so are some aspects of transport policy, for example, and this is not why it is subsumed or abducted within this heading. secondly, as regards the changes in the allocation of financial resources, and in particular as regards heading 2 'conservation and management of natural resources', we do not agree that the six million euro needed to finance the preparatory action for the maritime policy should come from the already reduced cfp budget, especially when at this stage of the budgetary year it is not possible to know what the volume of unused appropriations that could be freed up for other uses will be.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr paasilinna on reaching a good agreement on a matter which was not easy to begin with. the financing was the big issue at first reading and we welcome the fact that you have reached a common position. it is true that the initial idea of the institute was inspired by other existing models of excellence, but it is also clear that a great deal of effort has been put into making it viable with the necessary adaptation to european complexity and diversity. the result is a new instrument capable of integrating the three axes of knowledge, education, research and innovation, which should act as a catalyst for a multidisciplinary innovation culture so necessary to improve competitiveness. we are therefore convinced that the innovation and knowledge communities should be set up as strategically integrated networks of universities, research centres and companies, where students, researchers and knowledge can circulate freely and where work is carried out on topics of the greatest scientific and strategic interest, such as renewable energies or information and communication technologies. we hope that the eit will bear the fruit we all want in the not too distant future.
the following is the report by mrs elisabeth jeggle, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (single cmo regulation) as regards national milk quotas (com (2007) 0802 - c6-0015/2008 - 2007/0281 (cns)) (a6-0046/2008).
on behalf of the pse group. the truth is that the extremely low prices paid for years to european milk producers have caused enormous damage to the sector, leading to massive abandonment - especially in some regions such as mine, in galicia - and another consequence of this has been that the strategic reserves of this foodstuff, which is of primary need, have been drastically reduced. i wanted to tell you that, indeed, since 2007 the market has been developing in a positive way; and in fact it is giving a breathing space to producers, even allowing them to invest in their farms, something unthinkable until today. and in this connection, according to the commission's own report, there are two pieces of good news: positive prospects for the future call for additional quantities from the market; hence the proposal for an increase of 2% for this marketing year. i have been in favour of this proposal from the outset, madam commissioner. i have agreed to this proposal and have tried to work in conjunction with the rapporteur, mrs jeggle, precisely because it is clear that there were reservations and that there were certain members of the committee on agriculture and rural development who did not believe that this commission proposal should be supported. but in my view and understanding, it should not be parliament that puts a brake on those producers who have decided to respond positively to the demands of the market. i was therefore the one who proposed, in agreement with mrs jeggle, that this measure be voluntary. the report, as mrs jeggle has already said, was unanimously adopted by the committee on agriculture and rural development; and although it is true, as the rapporteur has said, that there is under-utilisation of quotas at the level of the european union, this under-utilisation is not evenly distributed among all the member states. nor is the deficit of production over theoretical consumption. in my country, spain, we have a production allocation of 6.1 million tonnes and a theoretical consumption of 9 million tonnes. spain has therefore, and it must be said so, almost the largest deficit per capita and year of the total of the european union. that is why we have asked in mr goepel's report for this adjustment of the quota to be made in the future, not by a linear increase, as in this proposal you are now making, but on the basis of the gap between the present structure and the one that the sector must have, as you say, to be competitive and to face the market alone. and in this connection, madam commissioner, i would like to ask you whether you are considering the possibility, in connection with the adaptation or soft landing mechanisms, of designing individual models for each member state. i want to make one thing very clear here, i think that milk production must be preserved over the whole of the european territory. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because milk production is, as you know, in many areas the only agricultural alternative, so this system has helped... (the president cut the speaker off)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr lutz goepel, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the 'checking' of the cap reform (2007/2195 (ini)) (a6-0047/2008).
mr president, commissioner, european farmers, and in particular spanish farmers, need, i would say demand, a minimum of stability. the first thing i would ask the commission to do is to ensure that this interim reform of the common agricultural policy does not become a deep and radical reform. one aspect which concerns me is the partial decoupling of aid; the rush to move forward in decoupling aid can endanger many crops. a level of full or partial coupling in certain sectors is vital for the maintenance of production, for example in the cotton sector. i therefore believe that the levels of coupling as agreed in 2003 should be maintained and, if that is not possible, i believe that the member states should be given room for manoeuvre, a voluntary model so that each sector, on a case-by-case basis, can carry out agricultural production under the best possible conditions. i think we should give a message of calm and stability to the agricultural sector at this time.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate mr goepel on his work and say that i will concentrate on the future of the dairy sector. i would like to make the following observations. firstly, it should be noted that there is considerable uncertainty as to the effect that the abolition of the quota system could have on the various producing regions. many fear that the trend towards abandonment of production will accelerate and that this will be an irreversible blow to some areas with a very low level of profitability and few alternative crops. it is clear, however, that the current quota system is not achieving the desired result, which is to achieve balance between production and consumption. we have gone from having milk lakes to having a deficit of over 3 million tonnes, which is a good indication of the fluctuations in this common agricultural policy, of an unbalanced distribution of production quotas, of a poor and weak evaluation of the latest reforms and of some specific measures implemented, such as the decoupling of aid, whose impact on the future of the sector is unknown. in addition, there are disparities in the application of the quota system between some countries and others. i have to say, madam commissioner, that in some countries, like my own, there are obstacles to the liberalisation of the sector and that since 2005 individual quota transfers, for example, have been abolished, which is a basic element for restructuring. finally, i would simply say to you, commissioner, that i think it would be a good idea to combine the idea of voluntarily increasing quotas by 2% for the 2008-2009 marketing year, as proposed in the jeggle and goepel reports, with a non-linear increase for subsequent years, as requested in paragraph 84 of the goepel draft, in order to achieve a more balanced distribution of production quotas, giving preference to the member states which are traditionally in deficit with respect to their internal consumption.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, minister, the stability of the european economy and our competitiveness in the international arena require a dynamic and healthy financial sector. something of vital importance to consumers and businesses. and to do that, we all agree that financial institutions need to be well managed and supervised. that is why in 2001 we launched the so-called lamfalussy process, with the aim of establishing an effective mechanism for convergence between the various member states and associated countries in terms of supervisory practices and financial regulation. the commission is now asking us to adopt a number of new initiatives in terms of adopting legislation, converging supervision and strengthening cooperation between the supervisors of the different states. we agree with all this because we need a strong, healthy financial sector capable of supporting our economy in the face of the turbulence of the international markets, but we want even more. we want the savings directive, which has been in force since 2005, to be reviewed to put an end to scandals such as the one in liechtenstein, which seems to hide tax evaders. there should be no member state, no associated territory and no country associated with the european economic area which, on the basis of banking secrecy, does not exchange information on interest paid to residents of the other members of the same common economic area. free competition prohibits state aid as a means of promoting the private economy; and taxation of savings should not be a door that distorts the exercise of competition on equal terms. the rules of the game should be the same for everyone and, to do so, we must eradicate tax havens, because they are anti-competitive and also anti-social.
madam president, the lamfalussy process was set up to ensure that community financial legislation responds quickly and flexibly to market developments and to promote convergence in supervisory practices. the activities at the four levels have made it possible to better coordinate the action of the institutions and supervisory authorities in the european union. we need to go further. to increase its legitimacy, quality and coherence, it is necessary to further strengthen the principles of better regulation and democratic control, to improve the integration of its levels and to promote greater cross-sectoral convergence that avoids arbitrage. a european perspective and new steps are essential to respond to these needs and, in particular, to properly address the monitoring of cross-border groups and to advance crisis prevention and management at international level.
member of the commission. − firstly, i would like to assure you once again that the competition policy of the union and this commission is an ongoing process. we check and test and, if needed, we act or react. secondly, the adaptation of important rules or frameworks for online content or cross-border rules for the provision of services, including now for copyrights or even terms of protection, are part of the gradual adaptation. some of them will probably be adapted this year. some proposals have been on the table since autumn last year. so i think it is an important process, where we are working together, where a cultural context or impact is duly taken into account and cultural diversity protected and promoted. we are not advising what individual companies should do in terms of the behaviour of others, but it is important that transparency and favourable conditions for creativity and for the dissemination of culture are preserved and promoted. i think this is our common cause and our common concern. i am sure that this is the case in the committee on culture and education, of which you are vice-chairman, mr mavrommatis.
i am sure you are aware, commissioner, that in some countries there is a method of paying for copyright which consists of setting a fee, which must be paid by all those who buy recording equipment, players, cds or dvds. i would like to ask you whether you think this method is acceptable, when there are so many people who buy these devices and who buy these dvds and do not use them either to download music or to play any copyright issue. and it seems to me that it is a method that is punishing precisely the honest citizens. i'd like to know what you think about that.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms klaß, and the members of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality for their own-initiative report. we all know that keeping the issue of gender equality high on the agenda requires a continuous effort. i have always considered the european parliament as a leading institution in this respect, and i want to pay tribute to the work done to help celebrate international women’s day 2008, including last week’s conference. i fully agree that women in the countryside should have real opportunities and should be encouraged to use all those opportunities. overall, i therefore agree that women in rural areas need particular political attention, and i am glad that this principle is implemented via the community strategic guidelines for rural development under the third axis, where the encouragement of women’s entry into the labour market is stressed as a key action. the rural economy needs women, not only in order to keep up with economic growth in the rest of society, but also to ensure sustainable rural development, where families and companies see a real future in staying in the countryside. before answering some of the specific issues highlighted in this report, i would like to stress that the principle of promoting equality between men and women is central for the second pillar of the common agricultural policy. in practice we apply it in two main ways. the first is a creation of an economic opportunity for women through, for example, the promotion of women’s entrepreneurship. importantly, in the context of the rural development programmes for the period 2007-2013, some member states have designed specific measures for women; other member states will give priority to applications from women under certain measures. the second aspect of the improvement of the quality of life in the countryside: the objective should be a women-friendly countryside, facilitating women’s lives in rural areas and allowing women to make better use of their potential. for example, rural development supports the funding of day-care centres for children in the countryside so that women have the possibility to stay out there but still to take upon themselves the possibilities of a job. i think these are examples of agricultural common policy actions that contribute to the improvement of the situation for women in rural areas. i would also like to highlight the leader programme in this context, which contributes to improving the involvement of women in the decision-making process in the local action groups. in fact, the number of projects managed by women is, for leader, higher than the projects that are managed by men: for the period 2003-2005, two out of three beneficiaries were women. concerning the specific requests included in the report, i agree that there is a necessity to monitor and to evaluate the integration of the gender perspective into the rural development programmes. indicators, which will show the results and impact of certain measures in the period – again – from 2007-2013, are broken down by gender, and they should give us the necessary information. finally, i would like to mention one point that is not really related to rural areas. the commission has initiated an impact assessment as part of the review of directive 86/613/eec, which deals with the principle of equal treatment between self-employed men and women, including those in agriculture. an important point is the protection of self-employed women during pregnancy and motherhood. a review of this directive is set down in the legislative working programme of the commission for this year, 2008, and this will give us another opportunity to support and improve the position of women in rural areas. once again, i thank the rapporteurs and all those who have contributed to a very important issue.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, this report presents the reality of women's situation in rural areas in the european union, in order to respond to important challenges facing the added difficulties faced by women living in these areas. we are talking about half the population of this territory, so the integration of the gender perspective in the rural sector is a priority element, both to promote equality between men and women and to enable economic and social growth in the rural environment. if women have real difficulties in entering the labour market or reconciling family and professional life, these difficulties are aggravated when we talk about the rural environment. the promotion of initiatives and policies that address these challenges is therefore necessary if equal opportunities are to be effective. despite the differences, we can agree that women in rural areas need special, joint political attention, encouraging rural development initiatives that favour their participation in economic and social life and curb the emigration of women from the countryside to the city. a reality that is becoming increasingly worrying. we are indebted to the women of our villages, who have contributed invaluable, almost invisible, value to rural development. the recognition of all these must be accompanied by policies promoted by the member states, regional and local authorities, which promote the improvement of living conditions and remove the existing barriers. the expansion of public services, the improvement of training, access to new technologies and support for innovative enterprise projects are therefore essential to achieving these objectives. we also call on the member states to develop the legal form of shared ownership so that women's rights in the agricultural sector are fully recognised. only in this way will we be able to make equal opportunities for european women in rural areas a reality.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, gender mainstreaming in the rural sector is necessary not only to promote equality between women and men, but also to help ensure that economic growth is based on sustainable rural development. the report by mr klaß is therefore clearly supported by our group on three main grounds. three of the points it highlights are, in our view, the most important: 1) that it calls for statistics on rural areas to be disaggregated by sex so that women in rural areas are no longer an invisible collective and their work is explicitly valued; 2) that the relevant local, regional and state authorities encourage the participation of women in local action groups and the development of local partnerships within the framework of the leader programme; and 3) that it also calls for special attention to be paid to improving transport infrastructure in rural areas and that positive measures to promote access to transport are introduced in order to curb social exclusion, which particularly affects women. but i would also like to propose and support the amendment tabled by my colleague, mrs iratxe garcía, to ask that the text include an explicit reference to the need for the member states to develop the legal form of 'shared ownership' in order to ensure full recognition of the rights of women in the agricultural sector, the corresponding protection in the field of social security and the recognition of their work.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs klaß on her report; it is not only useful work, but mrs klaß's effort has been very important. from here, thank you very much. i would like to emphasize that women in rural areas do not all live the same way. the rural world is not homogeneous. on the contrary, they are often very different worlds. but above all, we must attract women to the rural world and prevent the increasing exodus, because the position of women in our society is advancing slowly, but at least it is advancing in the urban world. however, in the rural world, they not only cope with work inside and outside the home, but at the same time they also take care of dependent people and on top of that, these women do so in much worse conditions than those in the urban world. the attraction of women to the rural world must therefore be achieved by strengthening not only their personal well-being but also the economy of rural areas. an economy that is primarily agricultural and livestock-based. but if that economy is to be strong, we must support the common agricultural policy, strengthen the common agricultural policy, while, of course, taking into account that the technical and social situation has to change, and soon.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we as the european union are to build a coherent energy policy and speak with one voice on the international energy scene, it is essential to have complete and reliable statistics which allow easy comparisons. and good coordination with and between the member states is also essential. that is why we think it is important that the commission's text makes it compulsory for them to take part. it is also important, as mrs trautmann has said, that a new proposal does not create more work for the companies and other actors involved. we therefore welcome the fact that the proposal does not seek to change the statistical tasks that are carried out, but rather to establish a common legal framework that ensures methodological uniformity and thus facilitates the comparison of data. moreover, understanding the complexity of our energy situation and carrying out a detailed quantitative check on the progress made towards our objectives also requires accurate, timely and complete statistics. we therefore agree with the rapporteur that, in matters such as energy efficiency, we need to improve the statistics we have. efficiency is now a priority of our energy policy and of the fight against climate change. and current statistics do not provide the data needed to calculate coefficients which are not, in this field, absolutely necessary. the development of the nuclear and renewable energy sectors also raises important difficulties in this respect which need to be resolved. these are just some examples of the limitations of our present system, which, together with interesting proposals to solve them, are very well captured in the report by mr turmes, whom i congratulate on his excellent work.
the chairman of the council. - first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms ana maria gomes, on her report on the role of the european union in iraq. we shall be very interested in hearing your debate today. we will certainly give careful consideration to the proposals of the rapporteur and the whole assembly. i would like to take this opportunity to express my particular appreciation of the european parliament's recent decision to establish an ad hoc delegation to iraq. it will undoubtedly contribute to our efforts to strengthen relations between the european union and iraq in all areas. the european union, in close cooperation with the government of iraq and other actors, notably the united nations, is strengthening relations with iraq, supports the central role of the united nations in iraq and will continue to work closely with the united nations assistance mission in iraq (unami). it will also provide support to the mission in fulfilling its mandate under unscr 1770. the european commission's humanitarian aid office echo is involved in improving the humanitarian situation in the region, not only in iraq but also in the neighbourhood. the negotiations on a trade and cooperation agreement with iraq are also an important factor in strengthening relations between the union and iraq. we are pleased to note that the negotiations are proceeding very well. the eu strongly supports a process in which neighbouring countries participate. we will continue to stress the importance of dialogue between iraq and its neighbours. i would like to stress the need to preserve the territorial integrity of iraq. as is well known, the presidency has expressed great concern at the recent operations of the turkish army on iraqi territory. we wish to stress the great importance of continuing dialogue and cooperation between iraq and turkey and strongly encourage the governments of turkey and iraq and the kurdistan regional government to find a peaceful solution to the situation and to avoid conflict. successful efforts at national reconciliation are essential for progress in improving the security situation to be long-term and sustainable. the european union stands ready to support iraq in fulfilling its commitment to continue this process. i would like to conclude by saying that the european union has already allocated a large amount of aid to iraq and continues to contribute to the reconstruction of the iraqi security sector, in particular through the integrated rule of law mission in iraq, which has been extended until the summer of next year. as we know, the iraqi authorities value this mission very much.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all, please allow me to take a little more time, because this is a very important issue for me. first, let me commend ms gomes and all the other members of parliament involved in the preparation of this important report. ms gomes has visited iraq twice since december in order to get the clearest possible picture of what is and what is not happening in the country. i have sent my two directors in charge of the area to iraq, one of whom, mr tomás duplá del moral, is here with me today. i will tell you more about that later. ms gomes’s analysis is clear, comprehensive and above all it starts from the right place. we have no choice but to deal with the challenges iraq faces now and in the future. five years after the fall of saddam hussein we may be entering a new phase of a gradual process. however, the process is still fragile, limited and unstable. the security situation seems to be slightly better, partly as a consequence of the us surge, but also because of two other important factors: the activities of the sunni awakening councils, armed and paid by the us, and most importantly moqtada al-sadr’s ceasefire, which has now been extended for another six months. the number of deaths among iraqi civilians still remains very high and there is great uncertainty about the sustainability of these efforts and of improvements. turkish incursions in the north contribute to complicating the situation, no matter how calm and measured the central and the kurdish regional governments’ reactions may have been – at least for now. on the political front, the legislative council approved an important package of laws: the 2008 budget, the provincial powers law and a limited amnesty related to the debaathification process, thereby giving satisfaction to sunnis, shias and kurds. however, with the presidential council’s rejection of the provincial powers law, there is still uncertainty as to whether this limited progress can be consolidated. the economic front shows a total reliance on the oil sector, difficulty in attracting foreign and even domestic investment, and lack of job creation opportunities. collection of taxes and tariffs is very incipient and the amounts remain marginal. the capacity to spend the investments planned in the budget, while growing, is still limited. however, economic activity, including investments, seems at this stage to have more potential in the safest kurdish area. national reconciliation remains central in the political agenda and there are many initiatives and foreign-driven events. however, while domestic efforts to build up genuine iraqi ownership and perspectives on the future of the country continue, a shared and clear vision is still lacking, and efforts are guided by sectarian, religious or ethnic interests, considerations or grievances. this is also what my director reported to me. let me take this opportunity to remind you of what we are already doing in and with iraq and what we can set out to do under still difficult circumstances in the future. our intervention extends over a wide range of activities covering the political, economic, assistance and humanitarian aspects. first, the trade and cooperation agreement: it is a political endeavour, setting the basis for contractual relations between the european union and iraq for the first time. our hope is that this will help iraq to address its own reform agenda and facilitate its reintegration in the international community after years of isolation. we have just wrapped up the fourth round of talks. rapid progress continues on areas from human rights to combating terrorism, from energy cooperation to the environment. secondly, the neighbours’ meetings, which the president-in-office of the council mentioned, could contribute very substantially to reducing interference, improving security and allowing political dialogue and reconciliation among the various factions. i have personally invested a good deal of effort to help this happen, having participated in two conferences, in sharm el sheikh and in istanbul. i will continue to do so in the future if i can, to keep pressing home the need for iraq’s neighbours to take up their responsibilities. visits to baghdad by the secretary-general of the arab league, amr moussa, and most recently even the iranian president are to be taken as good signs in this direction. as ms gomes points out in her report, the task of helping iraq stand on its own feet cannot fall on the shoulders of the donor community or the iraqis alone. on the subject of assistance, i need not remind this house that the eur 829 million of community funds devoted to iraq since funding started under my predecessor in 2003 were committed with the full support of the council and the european parliament. we have never been naive about the difficulty of delivering an effective programme in iraq. we did as this parliament and all our member states recommended, by working with the un and its agencies, with the world bank and the multi-donor trust fund. working with them was the only viable option available. the united nations had an extremely hard time after the assassination of sergio vieira de mello and a good part of its staff when its office in baghdad was blown up. the new special representative, staffan de mistura, has taken on his job with remarkable commitment and is highly appreciated. you recently met the deputy un special representative, david shearer, and i think you had a good exchange of views on their mission and the risks still existing. i could mention many projects, but i shall do that when i answer your questions later on. at the moment i shall just say that i think it is important substantive work, all the more important given the very limited capacity – and i agree with ms gomes on this – of the iraqi government to deliver results. from basic needs in health and education, through assistance with democratisation, elections and human rights promotion, to humanitarian and refugee support, we have persisted with an extremely comprehensive programme, using the best available means in the most challenging circumstances. we have tried to ensure that specific attention is paid to the needs of vulnerable groups, not least displaced iraqis, whether inside iraq or in the neighbouring states. last year a substantial package of eur 50 million was provided for refugee support. the commission also intends to allocate eur 20 million from its humanitarian budget line for 2008 in support of idps/refugees and the most vulnerable groups in iraq. we have also started some bilateral projects, but there is no ideal solution. in fact, every option has inherent and formidable drawbacks. as i have already mentioned – and i am coming to a conclusion – last week on my instructions, my two directors responsible for iraq from the external relations dg and europeaid visited baghdad with their teams. they held fruitful but very frank discussions with the iraqi authorities and other players. the mission confirmed iraq’s precarious security, the political and economic situation that i described earlier, the extreme weakness of the iraqi institutions after saddam hussein’s years and the ensuing war, and the key role of our small delegation in baghdad. the iraqi government expressed its eagerness to work with the european union. on this basis, we shall try to fund, alongside other bilateral and international donors, and we will help to strengthen the institutions and the capacity of the administration of a state which remains weak. we shall explore ways of taking more direct action as parliament has asked – bearing in mind the security environment – and we would like to ensure the maximum efficiency, visibility and accountability of our assistance. (applause)
opinion of the committee on international trade and development - madam president, this report, which the inta committee has dealt with and discussed in depth, is to be welcomed, from the point of view of its competence, which i shall refer to very briefly. i would like to emphasize from the overall report of the inta committee, which was only partly taken over by the rapporteur - although much of the spirit of what the international trade committee said has been captured - first of all the need for iraq to reintegrate into what we could call the international economic system and, in that sense, the fact that it is an observer in the world trade organization should be welcomed; it is clearly a positive step in that direction. secondly, the need to use the trade and cooperation agreement as a very useful means of promoting internal reforms which will bring iraq closer to the discipline of a multilateral system. thirdly, i would like to stress the need for public tenders in iraq to be truly transparent and non-discriminatory. that is a point which the committee has stressed and which will be tabled again as an amendment in plenary at the vote tomorrow. i think it is important to stress this: transparency and balance in all public tenders. and finally, a call for the reinvestment of oil revenues so that they are managed by the iraqi government itself through the appropriate institutions. there is much more to it, but i think the report as a whole deserves the congratulations of this house.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, as rapporteur on the control of arms exports to the european union, i have had the opportunity to follow very closely the process of transforming the current code of conduct into a more efficient and effective instrument, which will make it possible to control more and better the arms exports of the european union and of european union companies. however, despite the fact that the technical work done by the council working party on arms export control (coarm) has been done for some time, we still do not understand - and my colleagues have said this - why the council is reluctant to adopt the common position which would make it possible to convert the current code into a legally binding instrument. despite the secrecy surrounding any debate of this kind, we know that only a few countries are opposed to such a step, and especially france, which seems to link this decision to the lifting of the arms embargo on china. we insist once again that these are two different issues and that to condition them is a gross lack of responsibility in relation to the many victims who suffer daily from the consequences of our irresponsible arms export policy. i therefore welcome the commitment of the slovenian presidency to complete this transformation of the code into a common position during its presidency, although i would also remind you that previous presidencies have made the same unsuccessful commitment. i hope you have it and you will have our full support. i would also remind you that it is precisely the lack of control and the current laxity which allows european arms to end up, officially and illegally, in the hands of terrorist groups, dictators and armed factions, who mortgage the present and the future of millions of people to whom we send our development aid teams afterwards, necessarily, but not without a certain cynicism.
the chairman of the council. − implementation will be the responsibility of each member state. we expect the european council, including the european association of families, to adopt certain decisions on these aspects at political level this week. in short, we believe, or expect, that the day will provide additional impetus to efforts in this area. how these will be implemented will depend, however, mainly on each member state individually.
the chairman of the council. − the council is aware of the european parliament's initiative calling on members to make a europe-wide commitment to end homelessness by 2015. the council welcomes this initiative and looks forward to its achievements. i would like to recall that the problem of homelessness is addressed in the framework of the open method of coordination in the context of social protection and social inclusion policy. the social protection committee is responsible for this area. the open method of coordination process has increased awareness of the fact that homelessness is a problem in all member states. when preparing their national action plans for social inclusion for the period 2006-2008, member states identified homelessness as one of their main strategic priorities. the 2007 joint report on social protection and social inclusion addressed the challenge of homelessness in relation to active inclusion measures. these measures need to be complemented by a range of other services, including housing, healthcare and social services. the report also found that some member states are developing a more structured approach to housing exclusion and homelessness. as regards the issue of statistics on homelessness at european level, indicators in the field of homelessness are still underdeveloped despite the efforts of the european observatory on homelessness. in several member states, homelessness is not defined at all. most member states also do not have reliable data on the number of homeless people. however, if these data already exist, it is difficult to compare them, as the methodologies for counting and monitoring trends differ from one member state to another. in the absence of comparable data on homelessness, the subgroup on indicators within the social protection committee included in its work programme for 2008 among its plans a specific analysis of the share of housing in material deprivation, an analysis of the data on housing costs from the european survey on income and living conditions, as well as further action on the basis of the study on the measurement of the prevalence of homelessness at european union level issued by the commission services in january 2007. in addition, the social protection committee concluded that homelessness would be one of the possible priorities in 2009 within the thematically oriented efforts for social inclusion.
the chairman of the council. − i thank you for this information, but i ask for your understanding, as i am not in a position to comment on data or on the situation for individual member states. that may be a good practice, but i can't say that here as a representative of the council.
the chairman of the council. − in june 2007, the commission presented a green paper on the future of a common european asylum system. the council is now awaiting the commission's proposals for the second stage instruments, acts and measures aimed at establishing a common european asylum system. these are the instruments or acts to be adopted by parliament and the council under the co-decision procedure. the timetable for the submission of these proposals, when we can expect any proposal, will have to be put to the commission, which has the sole legislative initiative in this area as well.
mr president, mr mehdi kazemi, 19, has just lost the chance to obtain asylum in the netherlands after his claim was rejected in the united kingdom. mr. kazemi can be sent to iran and can be executed for the crime of being gay. at the moment we have no rules in the european union on this, and the question is whether the council thinks it can speed up the procedures or whether we can expect, for example, the court of justice of the european union to compel member states to recognise asylum as a fundamental human right on the basis of existing human rights case law.
mr president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate mr turmes on his report and the commission on its initiative. many of us believe that the european union should consider support for renewable energy and energy efficiency not only as an integral part of its energy and climate change strategy, but also as an integral part of its development policy. the proposal to create a global fund for energy efficiency and renewable energy to mobilise private investment for developing countries and economies in transition is therefore very interesting. modest funding ideally requires setting priorities and synergies with other existing programmes and also with the world bank and regional development banks, which are increasingly investing in renewable energy and energy efficiency. but after the first few years of the new instrument, the results should also be assessed and substantial increases in contributions from the actors involved should be encouraged. i agree that all this suggests, at the moment, that support should be directed primarily to africa and latin america.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, commissioner špidla, is very pleased that the european parliament has chosen to examine the situation of women in prison and its impact on social and family life, and therefore congratulates the rapporteur, mrs panayotopoulos, on her excellent report. even though women represent only a small percentage - about 5% - of the european prison population, it is clear that their detention has a very serious impact on the whole family. in addition, a relatively high proportion of female prisoners are also mothers. the commission promotes policies to combat the exclusion of vulnerable groups, including and above all prisoners. however, it should be stressed that social inclusion is primarily a matter for the member states. the commission's role in the field of social inclusion is mainly to assist member states in the fight against social exclusion, through the open method of coordination and other more specific actions. nevertheless, the new lisbon treaty - and this is of course interesting - provides for new initiatives in the area of justice, freedom and security. in this specific and increasingly important area, the codecision procedure will apply to many more matters, which will obviously extend the european parliament's competence to examine some of the proposals which are in fact formulated in your report. the report by mrs panayotopoulos takes a balanced approach. this report fully respects the principle of subsidiarity while recognising the supporting role of the commission, and we fully subscribe to your methodological approach. we know that in order to meet the challenges facing women prisoners, the member states and the commission must focus on the living conditions in prisons, on the essential maintenance of family and social ties and, of course, on the importance of social and occupational reintegration. this approach is in line with the commission's social inclusion strategy, which has three main lines: promoting access to basic services and to different opportunities and opportunities, monitoring compliance with anti-discrimination legislation and, where necessary, developing targeted approaches to meet the specific needs of different groups. in spring 2006, the commission launched a public consultation on the need for further action at eu level to promote the active inclusion of people furthest from the labour market. the results of this consultation were presented in a communication of october 2007, which launched the second phase of the consultation at the same time. the social partners were invited to express their views on the possibility of strengthening the open method of coordination by adopting common principles notably in the area of income support, active labour market policies and access to quality services , on the substance of the common principles and, finally, on how to support the implementation of the common principles through monitoring and evaluation at eu level. the consultation was concluded on 28 february 2008 and the commission will now examine the proposals made by the social partners and other interested parties. let me now briefly comment on the report. it highlights the issue of the reintegration of women prisoners into society and the labour market. we share the view that targeted implementation measures must be combined with appropriate safety nets to avoid social exclusion. the rehabilitation of the prisoner must begin in prison in cooperation with the specialised social services. we know that the provision of acceptable and reasonable living conditions further increases the chances of the prisoner's reintegration into society. the authorities, including prison administrations, should be encouraged to provide quality vocational training to prisoners. cooperation between prisons and enterprises specialising in the employment of prisoners must of course be encouraged as part of the reintegration process. in this regard, we would like to underline the role of the european social fund in promoting the inclusion and integration of women and men in prison into the labour market and society in general. the fund - i think you know this - co-finances activities aimed at developing education and training programmes for prisoners. initiatives directly related to the improvement of prisoners' living conditions, such as the construction of new buildings and the installation of new equipment, can be supported under the programme of other structural funds. i have taken note of the request made by the european parliament to the commission and the council to adopt a framework decision on minimum standards for the protection of prisoners' rights and the establishment of a european prison charter. i think it is worth recalling once again that a number of the issues raised in the report are within the exclusive competence of the member states but, as we have pointed out, the lisbon treaty will apply the codecision procedure to many areas relating to justice, freedom and security, and i see in this a real opportunity to increase the role of parliament and to further improve the situation and the handling of this extremely serious matter.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her good work and her spirit, which has enabled important agreements to be reached on the amendments tabled by my group. it is a very comprehensive report, which leaves no relevant questions unanswered in relation to the difficult situation created in the social and family environment following the imprisonment of the father or mother. there are many new aspects introduced by this report. the treatment of a parent deprived of liberty who has children in his or her care. it was a question of finding a solution which would guarantee respect for the rights of minors while preserving the security measures which necessarily accompany a person deprived of liberty. the proposal is to create independent units far from the prison environment, with living conditions adapted to the needs of the children, which include their integration into the resources of the community. a similar case is that of persons deprived of their liberty who have dependants. this situation also affects women in the majority. here it is recommended that alternative sentences to imprisonment should also be used to a greater extent. the report makes it clear that when it comes to men deprived of their liberty, with minor children or other family responsibilities, the measures should be the same as for women. the committee also calls for the utmost respect for the development of sexual orientation and for any form of family life that is not contrary to the law. and that women prisoners be given access to prevention campaigns and also equal access to family planning programmes. the committee also calls for the promotion of programmes to reduce the vulnerability of women prisoners to situations of violence, with psychological assistance for women who have been victims of gender-based violence. and it is recommended that prison staff be trained and made aware of this issue. our group has worked closely with the rapporteur in tabled ing these and other amendments and i think that, all in all, we have produced a report of which this parliament can be proud. congratulations again to the rapporteur!
mr allister, it is not the duty of the presidency to judge on courtesy. our duty is to apply the rules, and you can be absolutely sure that the rules have been fully respected.
thank you very much, mr. martin, for your interesting opinions.
the first item is the report by danutė budreikaitė, on behalf of the committee on development, on the challenge of eu development cooperation policy for the new member states (2007/2140 (ini)) (a6-0036/2008).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by feleknas uca, on behalf of the committee on development, on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation (2007/2182 (ini)) (a6-0035/2008).
mr president, i should like to begin by enthusiastically welcoming this report, because it is important for several reasons. firstly, as a matter of fairness: while women and girls do about two thirds of the work in the world, they only receive 5% of the income and, moreover, poverty is clearly female. secondly, on the question of dignity: i believe that it is urgent to replace the image that is often given of women as vulnerable victims with an image of them as a highly differentiated group of social actors with valuable resources and capabilities and with their own priorities; and this implies, among other things, recognizing and fully assuming the right of women to decide about their own sexuality and their own body. and thirdly, as a matter of real commitment and consistency, it is regrettable that the transversal nature of the gender perspective is often seen as an excuse for not putting forward concrete proposals and objectives in, for example, country strategy papers. for all these reasons, i think that this report deserves to be applauded and supported by an absolute majority.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
madam president, before we begin the vote on this report i have to say that, in agreement with the rapporteur, mrs panayotopoulos, and the other alternative rapporteurs, i have to propose an oral amendment to amendment no 1 to paragraph 6. the last two words of the amendment - i shall say in english - 'contraception and abortion' - should be deleted, so that there would be no need to vote on the second part of the amendment.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, a few months ago, iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad solemnly declared before the united nations that there was no problem with homosexuality in iran, simply because there were no homosexuals. what he didn't say was that those who were were were executed. mehdi kazemi's case once again highlights the great loopholes in the european union's asylum system: that a person should seek asylum today because they are being persecuted and threatened with death because of their homosexual status is extremely worrying and demonstrates that the promotion of lgbt rights should be high on the international agenda. but even more serious is the fact that the european union, which stands for rights and freedoms, does not consider persecution on the grounds of sexual orientation to be a sufficiently relevant fact to grant automatic asylum in cases such as mehdi kazemi's. unfortunately, this is not the first case of this kind, nor will it be the last. and there are still many countries where the lgbt population continues to suffer persecution of all kinds and is even sentenced to death, as is the case of iran. i therefore hope that this house and all the political groups will rise to the occasion and join the more than just demands made in the resolution we are presenting today, especially with regard to the full implementation of the qualification directive, which recognises persecution on the grounds of sexual orientation as a determining factor in the granting of asylum. it also states that member states should consider individual cases and the situation in the country of origin, including the laws and regulations and how they are applied. it is also necessary for the member states to find a common solution which ensures that mehdi kazemi is granted refugee status and the necessary protection within the european union and that he is not sent back to iran where he would most likely be executed, as his partner was. this simply requires compliance with article 3 of the european convention on human rights, which prohibits the expulsion and extradition of persons to countries where there is a high risk that they will be subjected to persecution, torture or even the death penalty.
the chairman of the council. - ladies and gentlemen of the house, as regards the situation in lebanon, the european union and its member states' diplomatic activities remain focused on the pursuit of peace, stability, economic development and respect for human rights in that country. we seek to preserve and strengthen the sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity, unity and stability of lebanon. the european union supports the democratic institutions of lebanon and the legitimate government of prime minister siniora. we are concerned, however, about the long-term paralysis of the lebanese institutions. this has been going on since november 2006, and was further intensified in november 2007 with the vacancy of the presidency. as you know, the elections, which were supposed to elect the president on march 25th, have been postponed for the 17th time, to april 22nd. in addition to being the largest financial donor to lebanon, the european union is also working to resolve the political blockade in the country through intensive diplomatic activities. in this context, we support the efforts of the united nations, saudi arabia and the arab league. the european union has thus supported the three-pronged plan, which was unanimously adopted by the foreign ministers of the arab league member states. this plan, as is known, provides for the immediate election of the president, the formation of a government of national unity and the adoption of new electoral legislation. despite the expressed support for this plan, the lebanese political parties have different interpretations of its implementation. there are two main obstacles to the implementation of the proposal. the first is internal, as the parties fail to agree on representation in government, the distribution of ministerial posts and a new electoral law. the second obstacle is linked to syria, which does not want to give up its influence in lebanon. however, the arab league plan, at this point, is still the only initiative that can help to resolve the political blockade in the country. we expect the secretary general of the arab league, mr. moussa, to continue his efforts to resolve the situation. the european union will give it its full support. the recent arab league summit in damascus at the end of march did not bring the desired results in resolving the situation. lebanon has expressed its protest at the interference of syria in the process of electing the lebanese president by not sending its representative to the summit. allow me to stress at the same time the commitment of the european union to the position expressed in several united nations security council resolutions on lebanon. the union shall demonstrate its support for the efforts of the united nations, including through its participation in the united nations mission in lebanon. european countries contribute the largest share of military forces. despite numerous attacks, which have so far killed six spanish soldiers and wounded three irish soldiers, the mission is proceeding successfully. in august 2007, it was extended for one year. the member states of the european union also support the establishment of a united nations special tribunal for lebanon in the netherlands. we are working to have the special court operational as soon as possible. i should also mention that in 2007 an action plan between the european union and lebanon entered into force. this instrument builds on existing cooperation under the barcelona process and activities under this framework have already been frozen.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to begin by thanking parliament for including lebanon on today’s agenda. many other developments in the middle east – especially events in gaza – have recently occupied our attention. this should, however, not make us forget the strategic importance of lebanon for the region and as a partner of europe. the present situation in lebanon is extremely worrying. the deep political crisis continues: on 24 march, the parliamentary session to elect a president was postponed for the 17th time since november 2007. the summit of the arab league in damascus has not delivered a solution either. while the security situation has remained relatively calm with no major incidents, public tension and anxiety have increased. violence could break out at any moment as the political crisis goes on, with unforeseeable consequences for the country and its people. indications that hizbollah has replenished its military capacity since 2006 are worrying, especially in the light of the recent threats against israel, following the death of imad mugniyeh. moreover, the protracted crisis is having a very negative impact on the socio-economic situation in lebanon. as you are aware, europe is active at many different levels to help lebanon: we remain the biggest contributor to unifil, and the european union has also been the most important donor at the paris iii conference. we have been firmly supporting the arab league’s initiative since it was launched in january 2008 and our community instruments have allowed us to provide a targeted response to some of the major challenges. the european neighbourhood policy has developed into a major instrument to support lebanon’s reform process and to contribute to economic and social stabilisation, even though reform efforts are severely hampered by the current political stalemate. what are our priorities for the immediate future? continued support for the implementation of the arab league initiative remains our key priority. despite all difficulties, this initiative enjoys broad support and it represents for the moment the only option to find a solution. an important date in the process will be 22 april, when the next presidential election session in the parliament is scheduled. the idea of a special lebanon summit within the arab league framework has recently been floated. if it materialises, we should see how we can best provide support for this initiative. we should note, however, that it is syria that currently holds the presidency of the arab league. a clear and continued commitment to the full implementation of the security council resolutions relevant to lebanon also remains essential, indeed crucial. the publication of the next implementation reports on un security council resolutions 1559 and 1701 – in may and july 2007 respectively – will therefore be essential milestones. we should also continue efforts to maintain momentum in the middle east peace process, which has an impact on lebanon. i remain in close contact with my quartet partners and am looking forward to the middle east conference planned by the european parliament later this year.
i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply, and i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply. this is the 17th time that the president of the lebanese parliament, mr berri, has postponed the vote on the president. and this decision was not taken because of a lack of consensus on the figure of the candidate for the presidency, who, as everyone knows, is a maronite christian, nor was it taken because of a lack of consensus on the person who was the head of the army, mr suleiman. we have seen this from a delegation of european parliamentarians who were in damascus with the deputy prime minister and the foreign minister and with representatives of lebanese opposition parties, such as hezbollah and amal. the problem, mr president, is one of a strict and uncompromising distribution of power; it is a question of establishing blocking minorities in the lebanese council of ministers, it is a question of distributing the posts of head of the secret services and head of the army. and this whole situation - as the commissioner has rightly said - seriously affects the credibility, the functioning and the international image of this country. we therefore want to appeal to the forces opposing a solution at the moment, from the european parliament, to put the country's best interests ahead of these internal issues, so that we can continue to work, as we did in the european union's election observation mission which the commission supported, for a lebanon which is sovereign, democratic, free, viable and able to be built in peace.
on behalf of the green group, thank you, mr president. i would like to make a specific proposal to president pöttering, that he propose to invite various lebanese parliamentary leaders here to the european parliament to discuss the arab league proposals and to encourage parliamentary diplomacy, so that we do not remain indifferent to this situation where the lebanese have become pawns in a geopolitical game that is extremely dangerous for them and for peace in the middle east. this proposal could be put forward in the coming weeks, because we cannot remain indifferent to the deteriorating situation in lebanon and lebanese democracy is one of the weakest links in the middle east. we cannot allow the iran-us and iran-israel crises to turn lebanon into a battlefield in which all sides lose. we must support the arab league's initiative for a compromise on the election of a new president. we should not slacken in our support of the international tribunal on hariri's murder. we are quite concerned about the delay in the investigation, which makes it difficult to protect key witnesses in the case, such as the recently disappeared syrian mohamed siddiq. the european union must exert all possible pressure to ensure that syria and iran stop obstructing the resolution of the lebanese political conflict and support the arab league proposal on the election of a new president. we are also concerned about the continued smuggling of arms into the country to arm an irregular militia. the lebanese army must have a monopoly on military activity and control its territory.
mr president, i have the impression that one of the few occasions when the lebanese members of parliament elected in 2005 were able to act freely was recently, at the plenary session of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly in athens, because being a lebanese member of parliament is certainly a great danger, as the facts have tragically shown. i think there are those who want to make it seem that lebanon has no solution and therefore that lebanon is not viable as an independent, sovereign and democratic state. and that is what we have to rebel against, by supporting the institutionalism of lebanon, by supporting the plan of the arab league and by demanding that all the obstacles that are being put in the way of peace and understanding in that country be removed. europe has not forgotten lebanon; i would like to recall here the european military presence in unifil 2, which is impressive and has already had many casualties, many fatalities, as the council has recalled. our political presence is on par with that military presence. we have limits, but we must ask, within the limits of our capacity, the non-regional powers and the lebanese to agree, because without them socioeconomic development for the benefit of the citizens and also peace in the middle east will be impossible.
thank you very much, madam president. i would like to ask the european commission to intervene quickly in relation to the problem facing the spanish accredited press in the kingdom of morocco: the moroccan government is imposing coercion and threatening to expel the accredited press in spain, precisely because of the follow-up to the sahara conflict. since january of this year, televisión española, tv3 and canal sur have been deprived of their broadcasting permits, precisely because of their monitoring of the conflict, and lately the correspondent of the cope network is threatened with expulsion along with the ser network and the newspaper la vanguardia. i think it is unacceptable, through our neighbourhood policy, for a government - the moroccan government - to raise a serious problem of freedom of expression and to keep in check the entire spanish press accredited in the kingdom of morocco, unlike other european press. i therefore call on the european commission to respond swiftly and forcefully to put an end to this situation.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. madam president, i really do not think that the document we are discussing is what it could be, and i will explain: it is a document to assess what has been done with the broad guidelines that the european commission had proposed for the environment, in the whole of environmental policy. i don't think it is an evaluation document. it is not a detailed evaluation document that would have helped us to plan for the future, perhaps because the commission is not used to being judged or evaluated, nor does it vote, nor does it have a group of shareholders who demand results from it. however, i think that, although it seems a contradiction, the commission can be congratulated on the results it has achieved over the years, not on the document. i believe that environmental policy has been fully integrated into municipal and regional policies, and the industry itself is responding to the guidelines of the european union. i do, however, miss in the document a projection of how we have to change for the future, because those points where the system has not worked well have to be revised. europe has been making environmental policy for over 25 years and needs to review some of its methods, because that is the only thing that explains the failure of some policies. i do not see any critical sense in how we can change the european union's approach to the regions, to networking, to dominance or not. there are now many countries - as has happened with the soil directive - which already have much better regulation than europe can give them and others which have none. in the face of this asymmetry, europe must take a different approach and look for new ways of working, because it is logical that if the world has changed, we should also change our working methods. thank you very much, congratulations on the results, but let's change in the future.
on behalf of the pse group. thank you, madam president. commissioner, thank you for your presence in this debate. i too would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his work. the possible links between the community framework programme and the intergovernmental eureka programme have been discussed and analysed for some time in various forums and in our parliament, since both involve substantial aid to small and mediumsized enterprises. the result of these synergies has been community funding for the eurostars programme, on the basis of article 169 of the treaty, a programme which complements the framework programme with what i believe are the main virtues of eureka: its bottom-up structure, which allows it to be better adapted to the needs of smes, and a greater ease of participation, since the bureaucracy required to participate in the framework programme is in many cases an unacceptable burden on the possibilities of many small and medium-sized enterprises. supporting a greater integration of smes in r & d is something we have always advocated in this parliament. and in this respect eurostars can have an important mobilising effect. we therefore welcome this initiative in particular.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr gierek on his report. ladies and gentlemen, a research programme which manages its own resources outside the seventh framework programme and which has an annual budget of eur 60 million cannot but be well accepted and well supported by this parliament, especially given that steel is still widely used in various branches of industry and that there are still many scientific and technological challenges to be met in order to make production processes more efficient and cleaner. the challenges are even greater for coal because of its implications for energy production and also for the achievement of our objectives in the fight against climate change. making coal more competitive in the energy market, improving mine safety and operation and achieving cleaner combustion requires r & d, and new technologies for co2 capture and storage are a research line the european union has clearly committed to. i therefore fully agree with the content of this report. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on her sensitivity to gender equality, in proposing measures to achieve a greater presence and participation of women in a sector where men are still the majority.
thank you, madam president. ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr bono, on this report on the cultural industries, which covers a wide range of issues to which it has tried to give an answer. a brief comment on an aspect which seems to me to be a priority: in the information, communication and digital technology society, new forms of production and distribution are constantly emerging, which create new opportunities for producers, creators, artists and also for consumers. in this new context, it is essential to find new, balanced formulas that combine respect for the rights of creators with public access to these cultural goods. on the other hand, the cultural industries and the whole of the creative community - including smes, because of their dual cultural and economic nature - contribute both to the promotion of cultural diversity and to the creation of new jobs and economic development opportunities and, as they form part of one of the most dynamic sectors of our economy, aid to the creative sector should be considered as an investment. the promotion of lifelong learning, which encourages creative talent and the phenomenon of synergies between industry and schools, should be a priority in european policies.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all allow me to thank the rapporteur for his work on this report. since the adoption of the council regulation on fisheries outside community waters in 1994, many conditions have changed and international obligations have increased for the authorisation of community vessels outside community waters. this proposal has, therefore, been put forward as part of the 2006-2008 action plan for simplifying and improving the common fisheries policy. the aims of the proposal reflect that spirit by integrating existing legislation into one regulation, while ensuring that the rules applying to community vessels in third-country waters are applied equally to third-country vessels in community waters. many provisions are unchanged regarding the current system of issuing fishing authorisations. the major new points of the proposal can be summarised as follows. firstly, all fisheries agreements under which community vessels fish are included in the scope of the proposal, those being fisheries partnership agreements, bilateral fisheries agreements, agreements in the context of regional fisheries management organisations and private agreements. this wide scope is essential, as all flag states under the united nations convention on the law of the sea are responsible for the vessels flying their flags. consequently, vessels fishing under all kinds of agreements should be included. secondly, a mechanism to reallocate under-utilised fishing opportunities has been introduced in order to optimise the utilisation of fishing opportunities under the fisheries agreements. this point was raised during the discussions on most fisheries partnership agreements and is now integrated into each of them in order to increase the value for money under each agreement. as a last point, i would like to mention the proposed provisional application of fisheries agreements, which will grant the commission the necessary legal basis to transmit licence applications to third countries prior to the adoption of the council regulation concluding the agreement. this will, in most cases, ensure that community vessels can continue their fishing activities in third-country waters without interruption. turning to the report, i would like to comment on the amendments proposed. the commission can agree to amendments 1, 3, 5, 11 and 16. as for amendments 7 to 9 concerning the eligibility criteria, this list has been transformed into a positive list, rather than a negative one, in the first presidency compromise text. in general terms, the compromise text, however, covers the committee’s concerns, except for the extension of the eligibility criteria regarding infringements in the past 12 months, which is amendment 8. the commission finds that this provision should remain unchanged, believing it important as a precautionary measure in case of possible serious infringements. the commission cannot accept amendment 2 on the definition of infringements, as the definition of serious infringements is clear and is set out in regulation no 1447/99. regarding the amendment concerning non-transmission of all applications, which is amendment 12, it should be noted that article 10 has been deleted as part of the presidency compromise text. this was done on the basis of the opinion of the council’s legal service, which stated that the commission has no legal basis to penalise the vessels of member states as proposed in this article. the commission also finds that the member states’ possibility of giving their opinion on any decision is already provided for in article 9(2) and that any informal procedure prior to or after a negotiation should not be contained in this regulation. therefore, amendments 6 and 10 cannot be accepted. before closing, i would like to stress the following. firstly, the daily transmission of catch data is required under the regulation on electronic logbooks. secondly, closing a fishery implicitly means that fishing authorisations are no longer valid for the stocks or areas concerned. thirdly, all fishing activities in mixed fisheries must be considered as affecting the stocks concerned. fourthly, national legislation determines what can be used as evidence in a court of law. this is why the commission cannot accept amendments 13, 14, 15 and 17. amendment 4 and amendments 18 and 19 cannot be accepted, since the text proposed by the commission is correct – in the case of amendment 4 – or is sufficiently clear – in the case of amendments 18 and 19. equally, i cannot accept amendments 20 to 24, since the scope of the proposal is to cover all agreements and not just third-country agreements, as i said at the outset. in addition, the reallocation of unused fishing opportunities is necessary in order to ensure the best possible utilisation of the fishing possibilities under the agreement. such reallocation is best dealt with in the context of the issuing and renewal of licences. finally, i would like to stress that this proposal is part of a package containing the proposal on combating iiu fishing, as well as the revision of the control regulation to follow later this year. as referred to by the committee on fisheries, the commission will, while keeping transparency and simplification in mind, aim to harmonise these proposals and avoid any overlap between them.
i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in fishery products. the european people's party group will therefore vote against the amendments already rejected by the committee on fisheries, which have been tabled again with 40 signatures, which go exactly the other way, namely to insist that quota swap agreements remain outside the general legislation on fishing licences. in my view, when the court of auditors' report on the shortcomings of the control policy is still very much in the news and it has been decided to tackle the fight against illegal fishing all at once, it is very unrealistic to expect that a few agreements will remain outside a much needed general framework, as a basic legal guarantee of equal and non-discriminatory treatment, both between operators and between member states. it is also important to remember that we are engaged in an integrated and coordinated approach to the various community policies, and in particular to maritime policy, an approach which this parliament has strongly supported, as has the much needed process of simplifying community legislation. in this connection, it should not be forgotten that we are talking about more than 9 000 vessels operating in the various regional fisheries agreements and organisations, which means processing more than 16 000 fishing authorizations, since no agreement, neither north nor south, is exempt from this obligation. if there is any point in this, it is to harmonize and simplify the framework as much as possible and not to create further differences which only make control more difficult and create mistrust in the rules.
thank you, madam president. i, mr stevenson, am sure that we shall vote against those amendments which you have just mentioned and i have no doubt that this north-south situation is completely new to you. you have only experienced the situation in the north, and we have experienced the situation in the south. now we would like to live a little bit the situation in the north, because it seems to us that you in the north are doing well and, therefore, in the south we are encouraged to share a little. i would first of all like to congratulate the commission on its willingness to simplify the text of the proposal, which in its original form contained some elements which were difficult to accept. the revision of the control regulation, also the agreement with greenland and something mentioned by the commissioner - the proposal for a regulation on iuu fishing - allow us to limit the scope of this proposal. i am sure that my group will vote tomorrow, as it did in committee, against those amendments which seek to prevent the adoption of a general mechanism for the use of surplus fishing opportunities, something we have always advocated, as we have always been in favour of the need for a uniform system for the use of surplus fishing opportunities applicable to all agreements - not just the southern agreements - which was the council's commitment on the occasion of the ratification of the association agreement with greenland. i think i can say that my group will therefore vote against amendments which seek to apply this scheme only to agreements in the south and not in the north. so we're going to apply it to i think everyone, and this way we're all going to feel more comfortable. and as regards article 12, we agree that there should be an interim procedure for allocating licences before the council adopts the decision ratifying the agreement and we believe that a legal solution to this question should be found. we therefore agree with the commission that there must be a mechanism to ensure that fishing opportunities are not jeopardised, as provided for in article 12, if the ratification procedures for a fisheries agreement have not been completed.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all on the issue of the inclusion of overseas countries and territories, i wish to clarify that the regulation does not apply to them, since the scope of the proposal does not cover vessels flagged with overseas countries and territories. however, it does apply to the outermost regions, which are considered community waters. i agree with those who have supported this proposal as it stands, with its wide scope in order to make all agreements more effective and to ensure more value for money, in line with the overall objectives set by the committee on fisheries itself and others, like the court of auditors. on the amendments, let me again say that some of the amendments are accepted, as i indicated. others have been overtaken by virtue of the first presidency compromise text or because the proposed amendments are already provided for elsewhere in the regulation or in some other legal provisions. i would like to repeat that all fisheries agreements under which community vessels fish are to be included in the scope of the proposal. this is essential, because the states party to the united nations convention on the law of the sea, as i said before, are responsible for the vessels flying their flags. secondly, the reallocation of under-utilised fishing opportunities is there to optimise utilisation of fishing opportunities under the fisheries agreements. this is, after all, only proper management of fisheries agreements and it will not undermine relative stability, given that article 13(6) of the proposal states the following: ‘transmission of applications in accordance with this article shall not in any way affect the future allocation of fishing opportunities amongst member states.’ so it will be a reallocation to maximise the fishing opportunities granted or available under fishing agreements and not a means whereby a precedent would be set which would undermine relative stability. finally, i would also like to say that this provision is becoming a regular feature of fisheries partnership agreements with third countries and it has also been included, with the agreement of the council, in the greenland agreement.
member of the commission. − madam president, first of all allow me to thank the rapporteur, ms attwooll, and all the members of the committee on fisheries for a very thorough report, the contents of which i can almost fully endorse. the report recognises the main advantage of rights-based management systems as being increased economic rationale in fisheries. this is a crucial issue in the present context, where poor economic performance is the rule rather than the exception. the quest for a higher degree of economic efficiency generally has very positive effects on overcapacity and hence on sustainability of fisheries activities. the report, however, also accurately identifies the possible negative effects. in my opinion, such effects could be contained, if not eliminated, by introducing provisions intended to limit concentration of rights, to deal with allocation issues and, as proposed by the report, to protect artisanal fleets. these are being dealt with by various means in third countries where rights-based management systems in general, and individual transferable quotas in particular, have been in place for quite some time. as stated in the report, such systems are a complex matter, but difficulties associated with them are not insurmountable. on balance, i think the possible benefits are larger than the possible negative effects. however, i would like to confirm once more that the commission has no intention of proposing community management systems. nor is it the commission’s intention to promote a given and universal rights-based management system. different fisheries will require different systems. i am also fully aware of the sensitivity of this issue in relation to relative stability. the commission will continue working on this issue. in the short term, we are aiming at increasing the general knowledge on rights-based management and identifying best practices to be shared with member states’ national or regional governments with fisheries competences. we will also consider issuing guidelines or similar supporting documents to that effect. the results of the consultation process – including, of course, the report of the european parliament – and the outcome of the ongoing study on rights-based management systems in the member states and experiences in third countries will be important inputs for this process. in the medium term, rights-based management is going to be one of the topics in our reflection towards the next reform of the common fisheries policy. the commission will keep you informed about these future developments and i look forward to further fruitful discussions with you on this important issue.
the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the cfp is not simply a matter of the member states, but also of the community. we can therefore only express our satisfaction at the commission's decision to finally examine the possibilities of this fisheries management instrument, albeit in a way which i think is too simplistic and superficial, and which is certainly afraid of unleashing the wrath of the council on these issues. the most passive and less enterprising segments, both in the fisheries sector and in the council, have always feared any change in a management system, even if it was for the better. but that does not mean that these sectors and member states are in a better position, or even in the same position as they were 30 years ago, but that they are also still dragging the most dynamic sectors into a dead end. it is true that management by allocating fishing rights raises questions as to its implementation, but it is no less true that countries where fishing does matter as a sector of the future have been able to resolve them, showing that, at least for fleet segments capable of evolving towards more modern, efficient and sustainable approaches, it has significant advantages. that is why we also welcome mrs attwooll's report, which, alongside the concerns, has been able to reflect the possible advantages, which could include improved control, reduced capacity, less waste and less dependence on public aid. and i would like to say to mrs attwooll that fishing is indeed an economic activity, and an economic activity which must be profitable, which is now beginning not to be so, and therefore perhaps more economists than there are would be needed in fisheries, so that they could also analyse these issues more thoroughly. that said, i wish the commission great success in this debate and hope that the management model, which has been a failure, can be changed in the future.
before we begin the agenda, i would like to extend a warm welcome to my compatriot, mrs victoria sobrino, vice-president of the provincial council of ciudad real, my own country, who is with us in the gallery today.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the green paper on adaptation to climate change in europe: options for action for the eu, by guido sacconi, on behalf of the temporary committee on climate change (o-0013/2008 b6-0014/2008).
thank you, mr president. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr sacconi on the question, which gives us the opportunity to be here today discussing the issue of climate change. my colleagues will be speaking on more technical matters, but i would like to take this opportunity to thank the commissioner and, above all, to show my support for all that he is doing in this area: he was one of the pioneers and one of the first to talk about climate change here in brussels. i would also ask you to take account of the geographical features, especially one thing that will not sound strange to you, namely the islands. the wonderful greek islands, like the ones i represent, the balearic islands, may be harmed in the future by the climate changes that may occur. i believe that the commission cannot simply recognise the specific nature of the outermost regions, but must also take into account the factor of insularity, as well as, of course, mountain and coastal regions. the studies of the spanish institute of oceanography, among many others, highlight that the mediterranean sea is experiencing an accelerated process of warming and a rise in water levels, which would cause major repercussions on the coastline, especially on the beaches, which would be flooded, with its impact, then, on tourism, which is our main source of income. in the example i gave, the balearic islands, temperatures have risen in recent years in a remarkable and worrying way. the green paper should also recognise a commitment to support regions that need to make significant investment to counter the effects of climate change. i would like to conclude by setting out my personal ambition, which is that of the european people's party, that the european union should take the lead in terms of low-carbon and zero-carbon technologies. we are convinced that a rapid and bold shift towards more modern and efficient technologies will not only benefit our climate and provide the basis for a global solution, but will also be good for the economy, because it will make us much less dependent on importing these fossil fuels.
thank you, mr president, and thank you very much for your work, mr sacconi. we have a problem. public and private investment in research and development activities to combat climate change is therefore of paramount importance to ensure that adaptation and mitigation actions are as effective as possible with respect to the limitations and consequences of climate change. we have a great task ahead of us, commissioner. we must put in place measures such as energy efficiency, the promotion of renewable energy, efficient cogeneration, fuel efficiency in cars, public transport or energy-efficient lighting, improved management of farmland and pastureland and reduction of deforestation, not to mention improved water uses due to water scarcity. but i would like to take this opportunity to make two requests. the first is to you, commissioner, to urgently review the policy on biofuels, both first and second generation. and the second request is addressed to the council because, although the increase in these temperatures and the changes in rainfall patterns due to climate change will have an impact on the soil, no agreement has yet been reached on an appropriate european framework for the protection of this soil. it would be very important to have a firm commitment without further delay.
thank you, mr president. i think the role of adaptation and the adaptation document are important. i think, however, that the problem of climate change is a work in progress where we are constantly learning and knowing what is happening and what are the possible solutions. i would like to see the whole of politics not done from the top down. if we want to have a leader, we have to have followers; otherwise, the leader is left alone. and perhaps europe, if it moves too fast, if it puts industry into crisis, if it pursues only 'metapolitical' policies, i repeat, from the top down, cannot function. we must mobilize systems of intervention in the territory, to integrate into society with enthusiasm and to adapt to the adaptability of society itself, because we cannot lose well-being. in this connection, i would also like to stress that very little is said in this document about adaptation in the territory, and we must talk about it. and especially when we talk about the issue of water, which is fundamental and will be the number one - already is - of the consequences of climate change, we must take into account the search for consensus and actions in the territory - sometimes humble actions - for soil permeability, for reforestation, for the capture of surpluses, the use of existing reservoirs as if they were reservoirs to accumulate surplus water, the power to really distribute the few resources we have left and that the water does not go to the sea and is lost. and this requires an effort to go back, sometimes to existing traditions and sometimes to lose prejudice about solutions like, for example, recharging aquifers and a whole host of other things that need to be done. i therefore call for integrated policies, absolutely systemic policies, and for us to adapt ourselves to society, which must receive our recommendations and implement them. without society behind us, with enthusiasm, we do nothing. that is why we must seek consensus and listen to everyone.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers for their very important and interesting contributions, and when we finalise our white paper on adaptation we shall take into account what has been expressed today and what the resolution of the european parliament is recommending. i would like to underline that, without the continued support of the european parliament, most of our policies that are in place today would not have been adopted, and the leading role of the european union in the world would not provide the hope that an international agreement will be achieved in copenhagen in 2009. it is our main objective to have an international agreement to fight climate change, and to adapt to changing climatic conditions, in which all the countries of the world will participate and especially the united states and other big emitters, because then the fight against climate change will be effective. of course, the european union’s efforts will not be enough, but we cannot hope to have an international agreement if we do not take active leadership regarding this. i heard again today some doubts about science. i think this issue has more or less been dealt with. there is almost a consensus in science that climate change is anthropogenic: it is caused by human activities. there are a small number of scientists who think differently. some people still think that the world is flat, but even in the united states that is not taken seriously any more. last week a report from the world health organisation underlined the impact on health caused by climatic conditions and changes in climate, and nasa warned us that climate change is happening faster than we thought. therefore, relying on what science is telling us, we have to act. concerning cost: if we act later, we shall pay more; if we act now, we shall pay much less and we shall also avoid the irreversible impact of climate change on our planet. we have a duty to ourselves and to the next generations to leave the world in at least the same condition as we inherited it. we also have a moral duty, which many members stressed, towards those who have not contributed to the formation of the greenhouse phenomenon – the least-developed countries in the world, which not only have a very low income per capita but also have contributed only a very small fraction to the formation of this phenomenon. therefore adaptation, along with efforts for mitigation, is absolutely necessary, and we have to do that by helping the least-developed countries and also by taking the right measures in the european union. i heard various examples of what is happening right now, for example in the important issue of water. we have legislation – the water framework directive – which deals with this very precious and scarce resource, but we also adopted very recently a communication on water scarcity and droughts, because this is becoming a very important and urgent problem that we have to deal with. again concerning the cost, a few speakers mentioned the question of auctioning and how this will affect our energy-intensive industries or other sectors of the economy. i should like to clear up one misunderstanding to defuse this issue. the revenue that will be generated by auctioning will not go to the european union’s or any other coffers, but will go to the ministries of finance of the member states which will auction the allowances. this should be clearly understood. this money could be between eur 30 billion and eur 50 billion every year, and we have recommended – and i hope that the european parliament will agree – that part of it should go to adaptation policies. so we have the funding ready if we have the political will to go ahead with accepting this principle that we earmark a certain amount of this eur 30-50 billion per year to go to adaptation policies. i would like to speak for longer, because this is a very big issue and many questions were asked, but i would like to thank you again for your contributions. we will continue to cooperate closely with you and the temporary committee on climate change in formulating our policies and working hard, especially during these two years, to achieve an international agreement in copenhagen.
the debate is closed with a motion for a resolution (see minutes) tabled pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
mr president, as some of you will have heard from the media, yesterday a spanish freezer tuna vessel, the playa de bakio, based in bermeo, was hijacked with 26 crew members on board, 13 spaniards and 13 foreigners of african origin, when it was operating in international waters 250 miles off the coast of somalia. the fisheries sector has long been concerned about the lack of security in this part of the indian ocean, where piracy has proliferated and where a french sailboat was also hijacked on 11 april. in view of this situation, mr president, i call on our parliament and all the community institutions to take all the necessary measures to help secure the immediate release of the crew and the vessel, and to protect the community fleet operating in these waters, which are already considered the most dangerous in the world.
mr president, piracy has become one of the global evils threatening maritime security today. according to statistics compiled by the international maritime bureau, pirate attacks have increased by 500% in the last decade, from 90 in 1995 to 263 in 2007. at the moment 26 crew members of the fishing vessel playa de bakio are being held hostage in somalia and i would like, as has been said before in this house, not only to show solidarity with the families but to ask, to ask the european union to take action and make all the necessary efforts to free these fishermen. it is not enough to sign fisheries agreements with different african states, but we must also guarantee the safety of these vessels. the problem has a european dimension and must be treated as such.
mr president, next wednesday, 23 april, is the international day of the book, celebrated by unesco. it is also the day that miguel de cervantes died and william shakespeare was born. miguel de cervantes, the greatest figure in spanish literature, is universally known for his don quixote; there is agreement in pointing out this book as the first modern novel and one of the best works of universal literature. the english playwright, poet, and actor william shakespeare was born on another april 23rd, according to the julian calendar, and is considered the most important writer in the english language and one of the most celebrated also in world literature. many countries of the european union have chosen this day as their patron saint. this is also the case in catalonia, where traditionally the diada de san jordi is celebrated, a day to reclaim catalan culture and language. and it seems to me that it would be a tribute to european cultures and literatures if this parliament would remember and join in these celebrations on a cultural and literary day so celebrated in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, historical memory is essential to the process of european integration. in order to achieve this process fully, it is essential to understand that it represents the overcoming of nationalism, totalitarianism, intolerance, autocracy and war, and the consecration of europeanism, freedom, respect, democracy and peace as values for coexistence in europe. that is the lesson we must pass on to our young people: what our past was and the progress that our present represents, without keeping silent about the crimes and mistakes that had to be overcome and highlighting the sacrifice that this overcoming cost. knowing our history will be the antidote to not stumbling over the same stone again. because only with the truth, but with the whole truth, can we move forward. we must denounce the barbarities of our past with rigor, without falling into simplifications and, even less, into falsifications; without falling into the manichean logic of the cold war, identifying the good with the west and the bad with the east of the continent. we will explain that there were democrats and totalitarians, but we will not hide the fact that there were totalitarians in eastern and western europe, both equally hateful and criminal. as a spanish democrat i am in solidarity with the democrats who were victims of stalinism in their countries, but i also demand solidarity from them with those of us in spain who are living through the oppression and suffering imposed by the dictatorship of general franco. we understand the tragedy of our fellow citizens in eastern europe, who went from one totalitarianism to another, but they must also understand our tragedy, which was to maintain the same criminal dictatorship by oppressing our people. because only with the truth, but with the whole truth, can we move forward. we must remember that in tehran, yalta and potsdam, stalin was not alone; the leaders of the western powers shared his decisions. the european parliament has been a party to the maastricht treaty, and it is not the council that is responsible for the decisions taken by the council. it is true that in central and eastern europe stalinism bore a much greater responsibility, but it is also true that in my country this responsibility fell mainly on the western democracies, which accepted as part of their free world the francoist tyranny established thanks to hitler and mussolini and which was complicit in their misdeeds. mr president, we have achieved a great deal together with a united europe, which will be all the stronger and guarantee freedom and democracy the more its construction is based on the knowledge of progress that is shared by a project that identifies and rejects the darkness of our past in order to build a future committed to the values that unite us.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the report we are putting to the vote today contains an initiative from 2005, when the seven member states decided to deepen crossborder cooperation in all matters relating to terrorism, organised crime and illegal immigration. the german presidency proposed that part of this agreement be incorporated into the acquis communautaire by means of a framework decision, i.e. in the third pillar, similar to what was done with the schengen agreement, leaving aside, however, illegal immigration, which, according to the tampere mandate, should be included in the first pillar. it is therefore regrettable that clearly community competences which remain in the international treaty have not been included, which, in addition to creating legal confusion, leads to the existence of two legal frameworks of reference. the first was negotiated in a non-transparent manner. the national parliaments and the european parliament were not consulted. it was at the time of its incorporation into the community acquis that we were consulted in a non-binding way, late and soon. the report by our ill-fated colleague fausto corella contains the european parliament's position on this matter. today we welcome the fact that the council is being consulted on the basis of the codecision procedure. it is not attached to the agreement itself but includes its manual and annex, which we appreciate, because, although technical, they contain provisions of great political significance. it is not without reason that many of them must ensure the protection of personal and sensitive data. we regret, however, that the council has not yet adopted the framework decision on the definition of data protection to set out certain minimum standards. it is incongruous that the council should rush to this decision before the general law itself. the european data protection supervisor has also never been consulted. in summary, the report envisages cooperation through the exchange of information on dna data, fingerprints, vehicle registration plates and personal and non-personal data. this is to be able to compare a dna profile of a person with the future databases of 27 national contact points. it is clearly stated that common safeguards for data protection and the right of defence of suspects and accused persons should be laid down. only the unqualified part of the dna, i.e. the areas containing no gene expression, can be transmitted. any information shared should explicitly indicate the procedural status of the person and the database from which the information was obtained. the european parliament will have to be consulted again on any changes the council intends to make to the manual, particularly as regards the number of loci needed to make accurate comparisons. i would also remind the council of the invitation made at the time by the conference of representatives of the governments of the member states to consider the possibility of incorporating this framework decision into the new system of the lisbon treaty, so that it could be brought before the court of justice. i would also point out that, in the section on officers and the possibility of crossborder cooperation, i do not agree with the part which has been adopted in committee, which gives officers powers to arrest and take statements in a member state other than their own. finally, ladies and gentlemen, bilateral crossborder cooperation has always existed, but at european level this decision will be a pioneering one. we are concerned, of course, about the multiplicity of networks which, although well-intentioned, can lead to misuse and potentially serious errors. the protection of the innocent is certainly the first concern of everyone, and of this house in particular, since it is the one who represents all citizens.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i think that mr coelho has just given a very objective and clear version of the problem. the commission's original proposal was certainly more ambitious and we regret, in particular, the more limited scope of the decision. but the decision has the interest of laying the necessary foundations for ensuring a minimum level of protection in the third pillar. in the absence of any decision, we would have no general rule applicable in the third pillar, which would be even worse. we hope that this decision will be taken as soon as possible, after parliament has given its opinion on the new text which the council has submitted to it for the second time. as i said earlier, and i thank you again, madam rapporteur, mrs dürkopf, the commission will of course be supplementing the provisions on data protection with those of the framework decision on data protection in the third pillar. that is all, mr president, and i thank all the speakers for their contributions to this debate.
the rapporteur. - mr president, thank you very much to all the colleagues with whom it has been a pleasure to work together on this report. i'm not going to answer every single one of them, but in general. we are all concerned, above all, with the necessary balance between what it really means to fight terrorism and crime and, at the same time, strictly safeguarding private and public rights, so that no one can be deprived of his civil rights in the name of the fight against terrorism. this is a balance that is sometimes difficult, but it is incumbent on us democrats to be ever vigilant against any abuse on this issue. secondly, police cooperation has been mentioned here: it is essential. i live in spain, in a region where there is terrorism. i myself have police protection, and when i have to move to france, i have to ask my policemen to first send a leaflet to madrid, which, in turn, will ask france to allow them to cross the border with the gun, and this takes a week. i recognize that we should have something less bureaucratic, faster, and why not think about a european police permit. because i think, i think, that european policemen have more or less all the same training. we also need, mr alvaro, as mr coelho and mr sarah have also mentioned, and we want to convey this to the council, urgently, the framework decision. we need minimum standards for data protection. that is a just demand of all citizens.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, i look forward to the commission's proposal for a directive setting out the quality and safety requirements for organ donation and procurement throughout the european union. i would like to make it clear that we socialists support measures to protect donors and to ensure that organ donation is carried out on an altruistic and voluntary basis, with no payment other than compensation strictly limited to covering the costs and inconveniences of donation. the future legislative framework should not create an excessive administrative burden for member states, nor jeopardise the use of existing good practices. as regards the practical process itself, i would point out that very high quality standards should not increase costs, and above all should not reduce the availability of organs for transplantation. it must be made clear that no measures should be taken which lead to the abandonment of organ transplants which are now considered valid, since what is at stake is saving human lives and making this human life as comfortable as possible for the patient. fortunately, the excellent results of transplants in terms of increased life span and improved quality of life have increased the number of indications for this therapy. i come from a country, spain, which is a world leader in organ donation and transplantation. if we have managed to top this decent ranking it is, without a doubt, because of the existence of a national transplant organization that coordinates all the teams of professionals of the reference hospitals, and in each of them there is the figure of a hospital transplant coordinator, medical professional, who coordinates a whole team and the process that carries out these donations. i hope that the european commission's legislative proposal will take account of this type of model which is bearing such good fruit. finally, i would say that it would be very desirable to include a reference to the need to introduce citizens from third countries, with different cultures and religions, into the culture of donation, with specific awareness-raising measures, campaigns in their languages of origin, cultural mediators, etc., and to urge the states to adopt measures of criminal liability for those european citizens who undertake medical tourism in order to obtain organs in third countries, thus vigorously fighting against trafficking. i can only thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs, because it has been very easy to work and reach agreements.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, mr diamandouros, the greens want to strengthen the institution of the ombudsman to increase public confidence in the european institutions. how can we do that? supporting the ombudsman to have full access to all types of documents, including confidential documents. we are also pleased that the ombudsman can hear european officials as witnesses, free from the obligation to always speak in accordance with the instructions of their superiors in the administration. it's important, you know. it is also important, as the treaty of lisbon and this report say, that the ombudsman can intervene in cases before the european court of justice, and we support the ombudsman's attempts to bring about greater transparency in general, including in this house, in our finances, those of the members of the european parliament. this is the second time that the european parliament has proposed improvements to the ombudsman's statute. last time, the council blocked these advances. i hope that this time there will be a definitive clarification of the real powers of the ombudsman, that there will be a real way of increasing the confidence of the people on the streets in europe in these institutions.
mr president, some of the members here will say: 'but what is going on this monday, what did we miss today, a matter for the committee on constitutional affairs at 11:10 at night?' and what happened? mr duff has struck a blow and relegated mr watson to the second row of the liberal group? and what have we done here in the people's group? no, we have only followed the recommendations of the working party on the reform of the european parliament, which says that when we are few, let us try to get together, if only for the sake of not feeling alone. mr. president, more seriously now, i think this call tonight is for an important issue. i am very glad that the ombudsman is here with us. and that is because - as mrs wallström, the vice-president of the commission, has explained very well - after more than a decade of operation, it is logical to stop along the way, to see what is not working and to see what can be improved. and that is what mrs jäätteenmäki's report is about, and i would like to pay tribute to her for the good work she has done with all of us, and for the search for that consensus which shows that we live in a consensual democracy and not a conflict-ridden democracy in the european institutions. so, congratulations to you, mrs jäätteenmäki. and what we have tried to do, mr president, is something very simple. when the ombudsman was created in the maastricht treaty, we were faced with a fundamental step from an essentially economic union to a hopefully political union. the ombudsman was a key part of that. and today we want to continue to place our trust in the ombudsman so that he remains a key element in this necessary rapprochement between the institutions and the europeans. and that is why i am convinced that these reforms introduced - i insist, by consensus - in the committee on constitutional affairs will go in that direction. the next mini-plenary will be devoted to mr stubb's report, which also deals with another fundamental issue, namely transparency in the european institutions. both reports go in the same direction, mr president, and show that here, even at five minutes to eleven in the evening, we are dealing with the citizens.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i am pleased to be here today to share with you the commission's statement for the resolution you are going to adopt on the sinking of the cargo ship new flame and the consequences in the bay of algeciras. this resolution refers to two subjects of importance to our fellow citizens: maritime safety and the protection of the marine environment, that is to say, our coasts, our bays and our beaches. europe has had to cope with ecological disasters caused by shipping accidents: erika, prestige. the sinking of the new flame had serious consequences but did not cause a disaster of this magnitude. nevertheless, this shipwreck has reminded us that shipping can be dangerous and that such accidents can still occur despite the many initiatives taken by the european union in recent decades. the european commission has been following the accident very closely; the commission has remained vigilant in the application of community law and is now making concrete proposals to further improve maritime safety. the commission followed this accident very closely, which occurred in august 2007. the commission services, in particular the monitoring and information centre of the environment directorate-general responsible for civil protection, were in contact with the spanish authorities, the asmar sociedad statal de salvamento y seguridad maritima and the united kingdom authorities. in accordance with the requests of the spanish authorities, we have provided satellite images through the european maritime safety agency, emsa, to detect possible oil pollution in the bay of algeciras. in addition, spain decided to mobilise one of emsa's contracted anti-pollution vessels via the monitoring and information centre. the mistra bay anti-pollution vessel is still in the area, ready to intervene under the responsibility of the spanish authorities. these two services of emsa, namely the provision of satellite images of the clean sea net and anti-pollution vessels, both services are derived from european decisions. thanks to the support of the european parliament, €154 million has been allocated to the fight against pollution for the years 2007-2013. in addition, emsa has just signed contracts with other anti-pollution vessels to protect europe's coasts even better, and very soon new vessels, the bahia uno and bahia tres, will be available from algeciras bay. in general, the commission ensures that the community acquis in the field of maritime safety and protection of the marine environment is correctly applied. emsa was set up to assist the commission in monitoring the implementation of the community acquis. the inspections carried out by the agency make it possible to assess the efforts made by the member states to comply with community law. and, if necessary, the commission initiates infringement procedures against member states which do not correctly transpose community law. in the above areas, a number of cases are pending, including the so-called 'criminal sanctions' directive and the 'environmental liability' directive. the practical application of the provisions of the penal code and the prosecution of polluters remain, however, a national competence. i'm going back to the new flame case. the commission is examining a complaint received from the regional government of andalusia concerning possible non-compliance with community legislation. it should be remembered that the third maritime package under discussion today aims to bring about further improvements in traffic monitoring and operator liability. in conclusion, the commission recalls that the european union has put in place ambitious policies for maritime safety and protection of the marine environment. the member state affected by an accident has, if it so wishes, effective tools to combat pollutants and pollution. the commission wishes the new flame wreck to be removed from algeciras bay as soon as possible. the arrival of the specialist vessel big foot 1 at the end of march indicates that further attempts are in preparation. that is the information i wanted to give you for the benefit of parliament. mr president, i shall now listen carefully to the speakers on this subject.
it is not the case that the commission has not been consulted on the matter, but that the commission has been consulted on the matter. we have reached this situation because of factors that are repeated every day in the area, the lack of control in handling high-intensity traffic and massive fuel transfer operations between ships at sea. but in this particular case, there has also been a chain of errors and omissions in the control of the ship both before and after the collision. and so, commissioner, this parliament would be grateful if you would answer these four questions i am going to ask you: first, do you have information on the origin and the degree of toxicity of the 42 500 tonnes of scrap that have not been recovered? secondly, can you tell us whether, after the collision, and during these eight months, the community mechanism for assistance in the field of civil protection has been called for, and on how many occasions? thirdly, do you know the plans and timetable for refloating the ship - as you have mentioned - and for monitoring the risk of contamination that could be released from its cargo? fourthly, the european commission has opened an investigation. i ask you, to determine whether the competent authorities have broken community rules in force? and in that case, commissioner, please commit yourself before this house that if there is a breach of community law, you will refer such infringements to the court of justice of the european communities because, in the end, it is always the citizens and the environment who end up paying.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to think that we are all concerned about protecting the environment and maritime safety, and that is the only reason for bringing the new flame accident to the table. i cannot believe, therefore, that anyone would claim that this is a case, far from similar, to the prestige catastrophe. with the new flame there have been 24 tons of spills, so far, compared to the more than 70,000 tons of the prestige. it would be like comparing a scratch to terminal cancer, but never an accident of this kind is a minor issue. we must strengthen the mechanisms for preventing and responding to certain risks in our seas, especially in the mediterranean. it is true that the spanish authorities have acted with serenity, efficiency and competence, perhaps because they have learned from the serious chain of errors and barbarities committed by the government of the time when the prestige disaster occurred. the spanish government and the junta de andalucía have been responsible for the action of the european maritime safety agency, the clean sea net services, which provided the spanish authorities with eleven satellite images together with two accident evaluation reports, and the european commission's reaction to the accident, which the commissioner has mentioned and which i will not repeat. nine months after the accident the matter is under control and the british and spanish authorities, together with the commission, are working closely in the framework of the forum of dialogue on gibraltar.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i think the best metaphor for the situation we are living in, in the case of the new flame, was presented by greenpeace when they planted a flag on the wreck with the slogan diplomatic overturn. the problem is that we are faced with a two-faced problem, the ecological side and the diplomatic side. however, the latter cannot and should not be an excuse for not seriously addressing the former. it is true, for example, that the new flame case is a paradigm of the chronic pollution by hydrocarbons that the bay of algeciras suffers from because of gibraltar's failure to comply with european regulations, but also because of the excessive permissiveness of the spanish authorities. and here i would like to recall, or perhaps thank, the sudden ecological interest of the pp colleagues. i have the feeling, however, that the interest in the new flame is not so much about the need to tackle the ecological problem as about making an internal opposition to which we are so accustomed. i believe, and i insist, that there is a diplomatic problem, but the fundamental one is the ecological problem, which must be tackled immediately.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mr commissioner, since august i have had the opportunity to take various parliamentary initiatives and to make speeches in this house. the bottom line is that - as we all know - we are talking about one of the areas of europe with the most maritime traffic, namely the straits, with more than one hundred thousand ships a year, and the area between the bay of algeciras and gibraltar, with thirty thousand ships docking a year. the basic problem is that these two ports have no body to coordinate and monitor maritime traffic. this is the underlying problem. and we are putting forward a clear, unambiguous initiative for the two member states involved in this matter to resolve this lack of coordination as soon as possible. we are talking about two ports with maximum maritime traffic and it is unacceptable that, at this stage, we do not yet have this monitoring body. because it is not just the new flame, it was the sierra nava, the samotraki, and we are facing events which put at risk, logically, maritime safety, the safety of people and the safety of the natural environment. i therefore believe that we need a european energy, a clear instruction to the two member states. you see, it is not acceptable that in the 21st century, after eight months, the ship is still in the condition it is in. perhaps the spanish state made a mistake in transferring the responsibility for the rescue of the ship to gibraltar, because it should have been done, perhaps, between the two administrations. and there is a fundamental question i would like to put to the commissioner. i asked the commission a question - and mr dimas replied to me in march - and he insisted on a point which is still not clear: what was the ship carrying in the holds? what kind of scrap? the commission replied to me that it was carrying 700 tonnes of ifo-380 fuel, but to this day we do not know what kind of scrap the ship was carrying. i think this is unacceptable. i call on the commission to clarify once and for all what kind of scrap was on board.
mr president, this debate and the commissioner's answers have made it clear that the spanish and andalusian authorities' sensitivity to pollution and to maritime safety is very important in this government, both because of its capacity to respond, which has been quite immediate in time and form, and because it has put forward a very important set of measures to solve the problem and prevent greater evils. it's been said here. the new flame accident is certainly not a catastrophe of the size of the prestige, but it has had consequences which have worried and occupied the spanish government, the government of my country. in no case can it be said that the spanish government has sinned by inaction, quite the contrary. from the very beginning of the accident, spain has been in contact with the united kingdom, with gibraltar, and has been asking for information about the ship and the disaster and has offered to collaborate and coordinate in this approach taken by mr meyer. since august, the european union has been asked for help, as the commissioner himself has said. the shipowner and his company have been ordered to pay the costs of the damage and, of course, gibraltar has also been denounced by the junta de andalucía for any possible breach of the legislation. i understand that it is vital that spain has done its homework - and it has done it well, it has not been as it was with the prestige - but it is true that coordination is needed, and it is that coordination that has failed here. so i think that what spain is doing by calling for the forum of dialogue on gibraltar as a measure which will really enable us to manage situations like this and prevent others which are certainly not desirable, is what can serve us all as a conclusion today. the rest is just the carelessness of some people who want to bring it back to parliament today.
mr president, the greens are not looking for blame, but for effective remedies so that there are no catastrophes, or a chronicle of catastrophes announced daily in the strait of gibraltar. this accident has been a serious warning and we must take note. we call on the commission to take action against the reckless and dangerous practice of bunkering which turns the waters of gibraltar and of great britain and spain into a huge floating petrol station without law, without control and without precaution. hundreds of precarious monohulls roam this area. six thousand shipments were made last year, and more than ten thousand were made on the high seas, without the safety measures laid down by the marpol convention. we tell the european commission that we cannot continue to learn from the pedagogy of catastrophe and we ask it to present to this house a protocol, an effective protocol of cooperation in maritime transport in the straits of gibraltar, in defence of the environment and in defence of common sense. because we can't keep this catastrophe over our heads every day.
mr president, thank you, mr vice-president and commissioner, for your replies. the bay of algeciras has become the dumping ground of the strait of gibraltar. among the poor bunkering practices, the continuous dumping of pollutants, even in small quantities, and the damaging conversion of cargo threaten to transform a protected area into a sewer. the case before us in no way threatens relations between spain and the united kingdom, which are discussing their old disputes with rationality. but the truth is that in the case of the new flame wreck, if i may use the phrase, "one for the other, the house without a sweep". it is scandalous that for seven long months no competent authority has been able to take effective decisions to prevent the sinking of the ship and that the pollution discharges resulting from the accident have not been prevented. now the wreck lies on the seabed with 42,500 tons of scrap whose nature and extent of contamination are unknown. commissioner, in the erika iii package, which the council is doing little to bring to fruition in the terms demanded by the european parliament, we are working hard to ensure that there is an independent authority in the fight against marine pollution, with the power to decide after an assessment of the extent of the damage. this new flame case seems to be a tailor-made suit to justify the existence of such an independent authority vested with decision-making capacity. it is also inexcusable to urge the member states of the european union to transpose the relevant directives and to ratify the international conventions applicable to the case. i have heard with sadness how andalusia is being ignored in highlighting the great catastrophe of the prestige; it is a manichean, sad game and it shows little respect for andalusia. it's a pity that people from that land said that. commissioner, what andalusia is asking for in the bay of algeciras is that the lawful practices of bunkering and maritime activities generating wealth and employment for the area be compatible with unambiguous respect for the protection of the environment.
mr president, i do not think that this accident is comparable, of course, to other oil tankers or even container ships, such as the napoli, which is still waiting for a solution to be found in the imb. we must, of course, be glad, however, that the vice-president is joining this debate. at the moment, i was focused mainly on environmental aspects. i think that the vice-president's ability to deal with the environmental and transport aspects with new instruments is important. we have solved the diplomatic problem with gibraltar on air safety. mr barrot, i would ask you to try, also in this case, to improve, let us say, those diplomatic aspects with gibraltar in the maritime security aspects. but i still think that there are already channels of dialogue which could be very useful. i also believe that the spanish and andalusian authorities have done everything possible in the face of this type of accident in this critical area of the mediterranean and we are certainly pleased and satisfied to see that they have immediately turned to the european union to ask for the very instruments they have put in their hands to be used. that is why we believe it is important to give a message of hope to the citizens in the face of the most catastrophic aspects, and we encourage them to strengthen the means of emsa, which have proved useful in preventing and, for the moment, protecting the coast, to advance this third maritime safety package and, above all, to improve cooperation between ports, which here, perhaps, at some point has failed, and, of course, to present all the aspects related to the improvement of the quality of marine fuel, which, of course, recently in the agreement at the imo has been, let us say, a definitive approach and which, of course, will improve the results or consequences of this type of accidents.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i shall try to answer a number of questions. i will tell mr galeote that the commission is not aware of any particular toxicity of the scrap metal that the new flame was carrying. we have no reason to think that they are particularly toxic. as regards the community civil protection mechanism, it was requested by the spanish authorities as soon as the new flame disaster occurred, but has not been requested since. finally, as regards the removal of the wreckage, i would inform parliament that the operations have been started and that the sea conditions now allow them to be carried out in good safety. the removal of the wreckage is expected to take about three months. the commission is also examining the complaint received from the andalusian government. if there are any violations, they will be prosecuted. president watson questioned me as well. i would like to tell him that the wreck of the new flame is indeed in gibraltar waters. the new flame case has nothing to do with bunkering activities, and the uk authorities have informed the commission that bunkering activities are regulated and do not pose any particular problems. the supply vessels are all double-hulled oil tankers, with all the necessary certificates. mr meyer, the traffic tracking directive, i will conclude on this, encourages cooperation in traffic tracking, the safe sea net information system allows for the exchange of information. mr queiró, the commission considers that the provisions of the directive on criminal penalties for pollution are likely to apply to the new flame situation and, more generally, to salvage operations, which cause pollution at sea. however, the 2005 directive only defines the legal framework for sanctioning those responsible for marine pollution. the practical application of the penalties in each individual case is not the result of the directive but of the applicable national law. for example, following the lodging of a complaint or the initiation of a public action in the field of criminal law. the national courts must impose sanctions as soon as the fault is established. mr hammerstein, the transfer of oil on the high seas is a very common practice in shipping. in principle, this is not a problem if all precautions are taken. ship owners have developed a body of good practice in bunkering, i.e. supplying fuel to ships. the international maritime organization is also preparing to adopt measures to prevent pollution during the transfer of oil from one tanker to another. the member states and the commission have actively supported this approach, but we will remain very vigilant. mr de grandes pascual, in 2005, as part of the third package of measures to promote maritime safety, the commission proposed a directive containing a minimum of common rules on civil liability and insurance. this proposal was welcomed by the european parliament but unfortunately it has not been followed up properly by the council. this proposal was designed to provide a standby response to victims of pollution at sea, before the continually delayed implementation of international conventions which are either not coming into force until much later or are not applied in all member states, thus creating unequal situations between operators and between victims of accidents. i have not answered all the questions but i would also like to say that the commission is aware that there is a disagreement about the waters around gibraltar. we don't have to get involved in this discussion. we can only invite the parties concerned to strengthen their cooperation and the exchange of information. the tripartite forum should address the issue of maritime security cooperation. ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow me, i would like to take this opportunity to say that parliament has really taken its responsibilities in this respect in the third maritime pollution package. your committee on transport has adopted the seven proposals and i must thank parliament for its help in this matter. but it is true that at the last council of transport ministers i had to note the reluctance of a number of member states, many member states, to two proposals: on the one hand, the proposal on civil liability, the liability of shipowners, and in particular, we had to create an insurance obligation, which is obviously a major element for the future. and secondly, another proposal, which complements this mechanism, on the responsibility of the flag state. the responsibility of the flag state is essential if we want all european flags to be on the paris memorandum's white list, that is to say, if they are all flags of quality. but we are not there yet. i would like to say that in order to prevent shipwrecks like the new flame, we must have legislation which, as we proposed in the third maritime package, is absolutely comprehensive and really makes it possible to prevent the risk of shipwrecks and pollution at all stages. in this respect, we have made progress, there is no doubt about that. the maritime safety agency, as i showed you, intervened. it has recently increased the resources at its disposal, but nothing will replace this third maritime package, for which i can only hope, with the full support of parliament, that the member states will take their responsibilities. it would be tragic if tomorrow we had a black tide in the mediterranean, in a sea as fragile and as sensitive as this. that is why i thank you again for your firm support so that this third maritime package can be translated into action and that we really have flag state control and clear responsibility for armaments. this is really essential if we are to prevent future disasters. i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply, but i am not sure that he will be able to give us a full answer.
mr president, a point of order. the commissioner has referred to the waters of gibraltar. i do not know whether this was a misinterpretation or a lapse on the part of the commissioner. i would like to clarify this because, as he knows very well, the ownership of these waters is subject to a dispute between the kingdom of spain and the united kingdom. i'd like to clarify that, please.
the rapporteur. - mr president, welcome to this debate, accompanied by the secretary-general, and welcome mr kallas. i cannot welcome anyone from the council, it seems that this whole thing of accounts and taking responsibility for the political debate in approving the accounts does not suit him. i hope that when the council has a president, after the treaty of lisbon, we will have ensured that the council is also present in this political debate. i would first like to congratulate my colleague dan jørgensen on his excellent report and to point out from his words how well things are done in the european union, and how they are getting better every year. he has referred on several occasions to an initiative by commissioner kallas and the commission on transparency. i was rapporteur two months ago on an own-initiative report supporting the transparency policy. the commission is indeed making progress in the policy of transparency, as has this parliament. i would like to stress that the role of this parliament in approving the accounts is a political one, we are not and should not be accountants. it is a political role and the question we have to answer to the citizens is: with the money this parliament has, have we been able to meet the budgetary challenges of the financial year 2006? the challenges are that this parliament should prepare for enlargement, that we should welcome new member states, that we should increase information policy, that we should do our job better, that we should prepare for the lisbon challenge, that we should legislate more and that we should do it in the best possible way. what is the political judgment of what we have done with those financial commitments? well, that's a positive judgment. we did good. i want to highlight a few things from this exercise. firstly, on the initiative of president pöttering, we have initiated a political dialogue between the presidency and the clearance of accounts procedure which until now seemed impossible; it is now possible, and your vice-president was present at the debate, answering the questions we put to him live from the committee. and also, on the initiative of the president, the bureau is going to have a regular procedure of working with the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control, so thank you. this house has improved transparency in many respects, as you will see in the report. we've improved the presentation of our assistants' papers. what has not been possible this year is that we finally made a statute for the assistants, which we asked for. the truth is that it took a very long time for members to have a statute of their own. we must be patient, but we must insist on the objective we have not achieved. but nevertheless, in the reference year 2006, 99% of the papers have been submitted correctly, so i think that is also on the right track. we have outstanding issues that we're more or less trying to do what we can about. the citizens do not understand that this parliament has three seats, they do not understand it, and they will not understand it because it is not easily understandable. it is another challenge for the council when it has a president: to find a solution. but this parliament has done its duty and has reduced the cost of the three seats from eur 203 million in 2002 to eur 155 million. we've got the bill down 24%, so that's good. what challenges are we facing, and do i mention them in this report? i have just said that we should give our assistants a definitive status, as we have ours. the challenge of better lawmaking. this parliament will have a much more important qualitative role and a much greater workload with the lisbon treaty when it comes. we hope that the belgian government, now that we have a belgian government, will behave a little better towards us in the building policy than it has been doing so far, that it has made it regular. i would like to conclude by saying that we have exercised our budgetary powers prudently, and that is why i am asking for a favourable vote on these 2006 accounts.
vice-president of the european commission - mr president mr jørgensen, the other reporters. distinguished members of parliament. i would like to thank parliament, the committee on budgetary control and the rapporteur, mr jørgensen, as well as the other rapporteurs for the reports they have presented and for the recommendation to give a discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the 2006 budget. i would also like to thank mr alexander stubb for his report on the discharge for the european development fund. despite the fact that the court was unable to make a full declaration of assurance as to the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the 2006 accounts, its audit was the best since the initial declaration of assurance. the court acknowledged the progress made. i am pleased to note that the same recognition was given by the parliament's committee on budgetary control. our discussions this year will focus on the structural funds, member states' obligations, internal requirements and adjustments, and the sensitive area of external aid. efforts are needed in all these areas. we agree that follow-up action should be taken regularly, not only because of the approval procedure but also because of the treaty conditions and their importance. i am proposing that parliament's meetings be regularly attended by a member or representatives of the commission who would address and report on one of the three areas at the heart of this year's approval process. these are: increasing the responsibility of the member states in areas administered jointly by the european union and the member states; implementing the structural funds; and monitoring the financing of external action (in particular the monitoring of financing through international organisations). in may, i plan to begin the usual exchange of views on the political strategy for the coming year for the sectors under my responsibility. in june, the commissioners responsible for the structural funds or their representatives and the committee on budgetary control could discuss the preliminary results of the action plan for the structural funds. the first quarterly report on the structural funds action plan will be sent to parliament in may. in july or september, the commissioner for external relations or his representative could provide members with updated information on the transparency and control of european union funding for external action, through the trust funds and international organisations. i can inform you in july or september of the results of the commission's 2007 consolidated management report and the 2007 internal audit report and in this context we could continue our discussion on discharge, recovery and control costs. the commission will report on these areas in october. this theme provides a basis for promoting interinstitutional debate on the margin of error. the commission's formal replies to parliament's and the council's recommendations shall be submitted to parliament and the council at the usual time in the autumn. my colleagues danuta hübner and vladimír špidla have already given parliament an overview of the action plan for improving the financial management of structural measures. in order to reduce the number of errors in the implementation of structural measures by the commission and the member states, appropriate measures are planned. in its relations with the member states responsible for monitoring the expenditure of the structural funds, the commission has been firm, suspending payments and making financial corrections where necessary. the commission commits to reinforce these actions and to achieve tangible and measurable results. in the area of shared management, member states have submitted summaries of declarations and audits for 2007. failure to provide a summary shall give rise to legal action under article 226 of the treaty. the consistent requirement for member states to provide the abovementioned summary each year is beginning to bear fruit. commissioner benita ferrero-waldner explained to parliament the principles of the european union funding for iraq and made proposals on how to improve the control of this funding and how to ensure greater traceability and transparency. the directorate-general, which he heads, will report to parliament during the summer. some results have already been achieved. at the beginning of april, the commission and the un met in geneva, where meps and the commission representative reported, and agreed on common guidelines for external missions to increase the visibility of joint activities. both the un and the commission undertake to implement and closely monitor the implementation of these guidelines. the commission appreciates the parliament's approving decisions. they send a message to citizens about the proper use of community funds. we must continue on our present course and convince citizens that their money, spent from the eu budget, is in good hands.
opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - mr president, the committee on civil liberties has agreed to give its favourable opinion on the approval of the commission's management in this area and of the five agencies within its remit. as regards the commission's management, we welcome the substantial increase in the implementation of payments and hope that this trend will continue in 2007, although we know that this year will be the beginning of a new programming period and our experience shows us that it is more difficult to meet this target and that there is a certain delay. the committee on civil liberties welcomes the fact that the court of auditors - and i quote - has been able to obtain reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the five agencies which are under the jurisdiction of the committee on civil liberties. that said, i would like to make a few remarks on some points which are still unclear in the implementation of the budgets. firstly, the frontex agency, which had a weak rate of implementation of the appropriations allocated, but this should not lead us to be pessimistic. it should be noted that 2006 was its first year of actual operation and that in the following year it proved that it could spend its entire budget. the visit by the civil liberties committee to frontex's headquarters in warsaw was very positive. we therefore hope that the future financial years will be approved without any reservations, even though the lack of political vision on the part of the council and the commission has made the budgetary life of this agency rather unlucky. although this debate is perhaps not the most appropriate, i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the good functioning of frontex depends to a large extent on the cooperation of the member states, given the hybrid nature of the agency. if the member states do not make the appropriate means available, frontex will not be able to fulfil its tasks. on eurojust, let us simply say that there is a single negative note about its high number of transfers between lines, which should be better justified. we have also criticised certain problems in recruiting staff for the european union agency for fundamental rights and we regret that the court of auditors considers that the situation already mentioned in the 2005 financial year of a staff member of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction who was sent to brussels on a long-term mission without clearly defining the purpose of the mission remains unresolved. i would like to end by referring to the case of cepol, the european police college. we have some doubts. we have asked the european commission, mr kallas, to monitor closely the implementation of its budget, as there are serious suspicions that european legislation on public procurement is not being fully and strictly respected.
mr president, i would like to express our satisfaction that, for another year, we have managed to improve the transparency of the european union's accounts, even though - we must say - the court of auditors has not only helped us in the most fundamental aspects of the system, but through a very constructive, arduous but very constructive dialogue with the commission, in which we must give special recognition to the efforts made by the commissioners for regional development and employment, we have actually made progress in improving the control of all aspects relating to both employment and the structural funds. we would have liked the same cooperation from the foreign affairs commissioner, who we hope will be added to or join these efforts. we are very pleased with the committee of the regions because we have made very, very significant progress and we are still evaluating and monitoring, but we have the impression that a significant step forward has been made. as regards the court of auditors, we would like to see greater transparency in its declaration of interests, and as regards the council, we agree to make internal control more transparent and effective, but not to increase bureaucratic obstacles, as the amendment that has been tabled seems to suggest.
the rapporteur. - mr. president, sometimes the trees don't let us see the forest. we, in this discharge procedure, have to say what is wrong, and sometimes we forget how many things are right, how many highly competent officials we have in the commission, in this house, in this parliament - the cashiers, the many services, the translators, the interpreters, who work very well - how we know how to stretch the budget we have to meet the objectives, how this parliament and the commission are making more and more progress in the policy of transparency. we have a challenge, a very important challenge for this parliament, communication and information policy. that was one of the objectives of this parliament for 2006 and i am not satisfied with how it has developed. we have elections in a year, and we have to know how to get to them, and getting to them means improving our reporting procedures and staying transparent, as we are. transparency, and i was the rapporteur for this report, is compatible with documents which are not public, as is the case in the member states, with journalists themselves, with companies, with families. and that is good for our work, that there are levels of criteria development that have not passed through the sieve of public approval and should therefore be in the logical secret of those who are working on the matter. i am very pleased with the access i have had to all the information and i believe that the report i am presenting on parliament's accounts is a responsible report. and i say that parliament's accounts should be approved, because this parliament, if i may say so, works very well and much better than some national parliaments, in a much more transparent way and with officials working more hours than they can work in similar parliaments. so, this is not to say that it's perfect, we just have to keep working. we still have a long way to go, but in this political exercise to see how we have used the money given to us by the citizens, the report is positive, we have used it well, in a transparent and coherent way.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
if everyone agrees, so does the president. - before the vote on paragraph 65:
the rapporteur. - mr president, there has actually been a mistake in the numbers and what we are going to vote on first, by separate vote, is paragraph 65, except for paragraph 4, and then we are going to vote by roll call on paragraph 4. there's been a change of number and it's as simple as that.
that is correct, mr pomés, so we shall vote on paragraph 65, with the exception of paragraph 4. - before the vote on amendment no 9:
mr andersson, there are different language versions and what we voted for, what you are referring to, was already included. for the avoidance of doubt, we shall now vote exclusively for what mr andersson said, namely 'no family members of members are to be employed'. - before the vote on paragraph 72:
mr alvaro, the problem is that in the different language versions, this sentence was placed differently. that's what's created some problems. that is why we voted by saying exactly what we were voting for, so that there was no doubt.
in any case, the vote is clear, so there is no problem.
i am pleased to welcome, on behalf of parliament, the indonesian delegation to our house on the occasion of the fifth interparliamentary meeting between our parliament and the indonesian parliament. we have been informed that the meeting held this morning was very useful and productive. there are a number of issues of common interest to both sides and i would also like to highlight the interest shown by our colleagues in the indonesian parliament in our work. we thank you very much and wish you a very happy stay with us. (applause) i would like to thank
in any case, mr heaton-harris, rest assured that, from today on, we will all know what that acronym means. the voting is closed.
mr heaton-harris, regarding the meaning of ‘gnss’, we now have two options: one is ‘galileo navigation satellite system’ and the other is ‘global navigation satellite system’. which one do you prefer, mr heaton-harris?
thank you very much, mr. fatuzzo. would you like to put in the record your comment that i am the best vice president? well, if you insist, we'll put it in the minutes.
mr president, suddenly a financial and real estate crisis in the north and a food crisis in the south have brought to light all the contradictions of a deregulated globalisation. suddenly, markets have started speculating on food products because there are huge profit margins. when the price of rice goes from $400 to $1,000 in seven weeks, there are no biofuels to justify this price spike. that is the pure and simple market, the sacred market, which, after having speculated on housing and having brought millions of indebted people to ruin, now speculates on food, because that is where money is made: $1,000 a ton of rice! this has nothing to do with a reasonable structural problem, which can be justified in terms of increased demand from the chinese, or which can be justified in terms of reduced supply from droughts. this world needs a little less market and a little more regulation. globalization cannot continue to go on with catastrophic shocks like these, it needs to be governed, and governance of globalization today means, among other things, boosting africa's agricultural production capacity. the commissioner has said it, and he is absolutely right: a continent like africa cannot import food. africa must be self-sufficient. and for that there are many policies that we have to change to enable them to develop their productivity, helping them to do what they know and can do and would do if it were not for the circumstances of markets, again markets, that seeking ultra-competitiveness has caused enormous human tragedies. haiti imports 80 percent of the rice it consumes. a few years ago i was completely self-sufficient. why does the rice that the united states produces, heavily subsidized, suddenly matter? it's true, biofuels have driven up the price of american corn. when 30% of production is diverted, it is clear that prices vary. but the price of wheat has not moved as a result of biofuels, 1% cannot bring about these transformations. we cannot stop developing technologically what is today an alternative, perhaps the only alternative, to liquid fuels. let us avoid excessive deviations, but let us not throw the baby out with the bath water, let us not seek scapegoats for problems which are not caused by technological transformations or variations in demand, but by speculative movements which the world should not allow and which all political forces should combat.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i would like to thank mrs barsi-pataky for this very open and inclusive attitude on the part of all those involved in the process. because the previous galileo project, with private participation, failed and now we are faced with a project that has only community funding. this implies a greater social responsibility of the project. in this sense we can be pleased that galileo is committed to providing a high quality service at fair prices, fair prices, to ensure that public investment returns to citizens without having to pay twice for future services. it is also very positive that galileo will necessarily be interoperable with the current gps system in the united states; let us take this line of interoperable services as an example. in addition, the technical integration of personal data protection and the right to privacy into galileo is important. in short, galileo has a second life. we hope to take this opportunity to offer useful and innovative services to all europeans.
mr president, the truth is that we should congratulate ourselves as europeans today, because we are fortunate to have brought to fruition such an emblematic project as galileo, which makes visible the will to overcome europe in all areas, in space, transport and communications, and also as a platform for multiple services of the future that we can only guess at today. i would like to congratulate and thank mrs barsi-pataky, the rapporteur, for her willingness to help it to be born and to ensure its continuation through monitoring, through this interinstitutional group which i believe is a very positive innovation and which may perhaps be adopted for other dossiers. i would like to congratulate the commission, and especially its vice-president, mr barrot, for his tenacity and his timely outbursts of anger, which have undoubtedly helped to overcome very significant financial obstacles and national reservations and selfishness. finally, i would like to thank the slovenian presidency, and through it the council, for having helped to achieve this, for having helped my country and the spanish people to agree that we have great faith and will to be able to participate with all our strength and capabilities in this project. it is only necessary to ensure that what has been agreed and what parliament will vote on tomorrow is implemented, and here i am thinking again of the group that mrs barsi-pataky has set up.
the chairman of the council. - i would like to thank you very much for your constructive debate, and i would also like to apologise for leaving the session early because i am going home. let me conclude by reminding you that the galileo project is under scrutiny by public opinion. the success of european gnss systems is not only a european success, but the consequences are and will be felt on a global scale. i agree with you that this is the first common european structure and that we must not waste valuable time and open the door to the rapid implementation of these programmes. we are aware that the adoption of the implementing regulation is one of the important steps towards the implementation of the galileo project, and we have a lot of work to do together, and i am confident that we will continue to be successful in the future as we have been so far.
mr president, i am among those who believe that we should congratulate ourselves today on the determination with which the community institutions have overcome the ups and downs of the project; we are finally in a position to start planning with certainty for the deployment phase of galileo. we also welcome the efforts made to ensure that participation in the programme is as wide as possible. that said, i would like to stress one essential point: the civil nature of the project, which is a prerequisite for ensuring transparency in operations. the independence of the system will enable the certification of the services offered to users and provide guarantees of their quality, conditions necessary for the development of a wide range of new commercial applications which offer a great opportunity to our small and mediumsized enterprises and which, moreover, have a great environmental and social potential: navigation for the blind, planning the most accessible route for people in wheelchairs, etc. etc.
member of the commission. − the current directives allow for special regulation also in relation to individual religious societies and religious beliefs. in this respect, when the commission screens, it also screens the correct application of this option. this is a complex and highly sensitive issue, but it is generally regulated by european directives and the commission is able to assess whether individual member states are applying this option correctly, so as not to infringe the principle of non-discrimination. the second question i can answer quite simply. yes, equal treatment, non-discrimination is a fundamental european value that must be applied and all the instruments at the disposal of the european union must be used. on the other hand, it is clear that any decision of such importance, and in general of such importance, requires a study of the consequences, an impact study, and this method is also consistently used by the european commission in the field of equal opportunities, fundamental rights and non-discrimination.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i should like to thank the honourable member, mr medina ortega, for his question, which gives me the opportunity to express the commission’s position concerning the important issue of the fisheries agreement with morocco. the commission is monitoring the ec-morocco fisheries partnership agreement. the figures concerning the first year of implementation of this agreement are not yet final since the first year only ended on 28 february 2008 and there is a six-month delay between the time that fishing operations take place and when the data are transmitted and analysed. despite this time delay, the figures that we already have in our possession indicate the positive views of the fishing possibilities that show a utilisation rate of around 80% of the total fishing possibilities.
i am grateful for the commissioner's reply and i recognize the difficulty of having data so soon, but as i happen to live in the vicinity of the fishing area, i have been informed by the fishermen that there are structural difficulties in that fishing bank as a result of the excessive appearance of nets and other fishing gear which have been abandoned in the area and which make fishing extremely difficult. i do not know whether the commissioner is aware of the structural difficulties which have arisen in the sahara fishery after the previous agreement - a period during which there was no presence of the european fishing fleet - and which seem to have resulted in a deterioration of fishing conditions resulting from the lack of conservation of the stock.
member of the commission. − if i can be a little more precise, during the first year of implementation for the main categories, more than 90% for small-scale categories and tuna have been fished, and around 80% for industrial pelagics. however, the utilisation rate for the demersals is much worse. in this regard it is only about 23% utilisation. this is attributable mainly to certain problems that you have indicated, in particular the question concerning compulsory landings on the insistence of morocco which was included in the fisheries partnership agreement, and also the problem regarding the recruitment of moroccan seamen on board community vessels. i was in morocco myself around two weeks ago and i had the occasion to discuss with the moroccan minister these teething problems – as one may call them – with regard to the implementation of the fisheries partnership agreement with morocco. i think that there is a general understanding that we need to revisit the question concerning compulsory landings, given that in the fisheries partnership agreement the intention was that these landings would be required for re-exportation purposes. community vessels would be required to land fish that was caught in morocco and they would be re-exported after processing. in actual fact the landing of fish is now being utilised for local consumption. that means that since the fish are caught outside the territorial limit they are considered to be imported into morocco and therefore there is a hefty duty being charged. i raised this issue and there is understanding, and i hope that in the very short-term we will find a solution to it. in a similar way with regard to the recruitment of moroccan seamen, we have raised this issue with the moroccan authorities – with the minister himself – and there has been a widening of the list of persons that are included and from which the european community vessel owners can choose. we are trying to expand this list further so that in that way we will try to lessen as much as possible the inconvenience of a very restricted list of persons from which the vessel owners can chose fishers to operate on board their vessels.
mr president, in this dangerous world of fishing, i would like to ask about the fate of the tuna-freezer vessel playa de bakio, which was hijacked off the coast of somalia on sunday with 26 crew members on board, eight of them galicians, five basques and 13 africans. i would like to ask you, commissioner, what the commission is doing about this matter, whether the commission has acted or intends to act, because we are very concerned about the fate of these people who are still on board this tuna-freezer.
member of the commission. − deficiencies with regard to eu health requirements were identified during commission missions to brazil. some of these deficiencies have been addressed by the brazilian authorities themselves. however, during the november 2007 mission, instances of non-compliance were identified, in particular in relation to holding registration, animal identification and movement control, and the failure to respect previous commitments to take corrective measures. consequently, as i said, additional requirements were adopted, and at present we are making sure that the brazilian commitment really is adhered to. at this point in time, experts from the commission are offering practical training to the inspectors themselves, but are also making sure that the inspectors who have been trained are there in the farms training their own people, so that every member state receiving exports of beef from brazil has guarantees that there are well-trained people to supervise adherence to our requirements and regulations.
member of the commission. − first of all, i would like to assure you that the requirements we impose are equivalent for the product exported, and commission officials may now be training people, at their request, to put in place the right controls and regulations, but i am sure that they would not refuse to offer assistance to our people. we try to be fair, and i am sure that the primary requirement is the safety of our products. regionalisation is applied in the same way in brazil as in the eu.
member of the commission. − honourable members, the commission has every intention to respond to the decision of the parliament and the council when removing health services from the services directive in 2006 to have them treated separately. it is the commission’s intention to present a proposal that will codify the rulings of the european court of justice in this area, thus clarifying patients’ rights in the provision of cross-border health care and to present flanking measures in order to secure the availability of good quality cross-border health care. certain concerns expressed on various aspects of this matter in the course of the last few months led to further reflection and consultation. however, a draft proposal for a directive on the application of patients’ rights in cross-border health care is now under consideration for adoption by the college before the end of june 2008. our aim is to come forward with a proposal with the ultimate goal of helping citizens to exercise their rights conferred upon them by the european court of justice rather than to create more problems. this proposal will be focused on patients’ rights and increased access to health care. it will be part of a social package to be launched in cooperation with commissioner špidla, promoting access, opportunities and solidarity for all eu citizens. patients will be the main focus of this initiative and this is in line with the overarching citizen-oriented approach of the commission. the proposal will not create new financial entitlements for patients. the rights of patients established by the court relate to the financial entitlements already defined by member states. this proposal simply creates a framework for the patients to exercise these rights effectively with greater legal certainty, more transparency and improved predictability. finally, the proposal will also set the legal and administrative basis for an improved and renewed cooperation between member states in some forward-looking health-related areas where eu added value and synergies are expected to be decisive.
member of the commission. − the only thing i can say at the moment is to stress our full determination to go ahead. let us not speak about the past. there is a decision, and i assure you that, in june, we shall have the proposal in front of the college. please take it from me that in june we shall proceed. regarding privatisation, there is great concern about this, but my answer is that this concern is unfounded. the proposal is focused on the needs of patients. it ensures that, if patients travel to receive care, it is safe and of good quality. it also makes clear under what conditions citizens can have cross-border health care reimbursed by their national health system or health care provider and when they cannot. these conditions for reimbursement are not new, but are a codification of european court of justice rulings. this proposal does not create possibilities of receiving health care abroad that were not already established by the court rulings. this proposal aims to ensure that cross-border health care happens within a clear framework for safe, high-quality and efficient health care throughout the union. the aim is to provide a clear framework.
the next item is the commission statement on the application of the posting of workers directive following the judgments of the court of justice. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, commissioner, if we were faced with a minor problem, i would understand that a simple recommendation on the exchange of good practice, on the incorporation of more effective information, could provide an answer to the problem. but the problem, commissioner, is that we are faced with a very serious problem, which i regret very much that it was not even mentioned in your speech. the problem, commissioner, is that we have at this moment a well-established case law of the court of justice which says that workers from one country can work in another country for less than 50% of their salary, and that under a directive which - we have to say this among ourselves - was designed precisely to prevent that. so if it is possible today to have a law in force that allows that reality, tell me if we do not have a fundamental problem that cannot be solved by simply fixing computer problems. secondly, commissioner, we have a problem whereby the various national trade union practices, wage fixing, collective agreements, are out of the question. finland, sweden, denmark and germany are already out of the game. and so this is a huge problem, not just for these countries, but for all of europe, which sees how its national rights are being undermined, which sees how europe not only fails to guarantee better protection for its workers but breaks down national protection schemes. in the face of this reality, commissioner, i think we cannot look the other way. i think we cannot prescribe aspirin when what is needed is a radical surgery and i think we must balance the principles of workers' rights with market rights, because otherwise not social europe but the whole of europe will go through that hole.
i think it is clear, mr president, that the judgment of the court of justice endangers the very foundations of the european union. it is clear that the court of justice is the supreme body for interpreting european union law, and there is no one who is interested at this moment in weakening that institution. but this case law jeopardises the principle of social cohesion, as mr cercas has pointed out. for many people in europe, a european union which does not guarantee minimum social rights does not deserve to exist and we are therefore putting the very existence of the european union at risk. since we cannot go against the court's judgments - we have to comply with them - it is clear that the time has come for the legislature, the commission, parliament and the council, to take measures to ensure that this case law is not consolidated, because it is a case law attached to certain legal texts that can be changed. the court itself seems to be inviting us to this legislative change, and i believe that it is now the responsibility of the commission, first of all, but also of parliament and the council, to change the legislative texts to prevent this case law from being consolidated.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for your speeches. i listened to them with great interest. i think we had a rich and lively debate. i also noted the different opinions that were expressed today. these differences in interpretations and views encourage me to remain cautious on this subject. the discussion also showed the great complexity of the subject and the difficult legal issues that arise in this context. the three decisions of the court of justice are all specific. it would be wrong to draw too general conclusions from this. it is first up to the member states concerned to assess what they should do in their national context to adapt to the court's decisions. i would also like to support the constructive approach which has been taken in sweden and denmark to achieve this adaptation. however, today's discussion shows that it is important to think deeply in order to respond appropriately to the problems raised. this is one of the commission's priority objectives at the moment. we are indeed determined to continue this reflection in the preparation of a renewed social agenda. this agenda, which i will present to the college in june, will of course incorporate the results of the major consultation launched on the new social realities. it also fits in with the perspective of the november 2007 communication on a new social vision for europe in the 21st century. this is a real opportunity to promote new solutions to the challenges facing our european societies. these challenges include, of course, demographic change, increasingly rapid technological progress, but also the social impact of globalisation. the diversification of forms of labour mobility and the increase in migration, which is likely to be inevitable, pose new challenges to which we must respond. these are issues we must address if we are to preserve and strengthen our european social model. i am convinced that the social agenda is the appropriate vehicle for proposing a first constructive response to the challenges of mobility for the protection of workers. the debate which the european parliament is about to have in its own-initiative report is also in the right direction. the commission is committed to taking an active part in these discussions and to facilitating discussions and the search for solutions. i want to work in an open, demanding way, and in the context of economic and social realities. i hope that we too will move forward in a constructive and peaceful manner. the complexity of social realities makes it more difficult to formulate turnkey solutions. it is necessary to give ourselves time in the context of the current discussion on the social agenda. this is how a comprehensive approach can emerge which is more protective of workers in the union.
the debate is closed with the commissioner's intervention. i must admit that, although it is not the presidency's way, i close with a certain perplexity. it will be because for thirty years of my life i have been fighting so that a spanish worker in sweden or germany does not earn less than a german or swedish worker and, for another twenty years, i have been fighting so that a polish, romanian or moroccan worker does not earn less in spain than a spanish worker. (applause) written declarations (rule 142) the council has not yet adopted the common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer.
the next item is the report by mrs ana maria gomes, on behalf of the committee on development, on china policy and its effects in africa (2007/2255 (ini)) (a6-0080/2008).
on behalf of the green group, madam president, commissioner, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs carlotti on this excellent report and say that when we talk about the implementation of the agenda, we must look at each country on a case-by-case basis, the actual costs they have to face and how they are managed. it should not be forgotten that the edf is not part of the commission's general financial assistance and that we can therefore demand clear transparency and specific objectives for the use of this money. the european union has a long way to go to achieve this, and the european union is not going to be able to do it alone. finally, even if we know that the general financial support to acp countries is mainly directed towards poverty eradication strategies, it would not be wrong to ensure that the ultimate objective of the edfs is the same.
the chairman of the council. − the council welcomes the european parliament's interest in strengthening the strategic partnership between the european union and latin america and the caribbean. we also welcome the active role of parliament in promoting concrete commitments to the region, which would bring great benefits to citizens on both sides. let me begin by congratulating you on the establishment of the eurolat joint parliamentary assembly. it will play a crucial role in bringing citizens of both sides together. the resolutions adopted by eurolat at its december meeting are a valuable and encouraging contribution to the objectives of the summit of heads of state or government of the two parties to be held next month. we are also pleased, mr president, that you have expressed your interest in attending the eu-latin america and caribbean summit in may. your participation will continue the good tradition that we started at the vienna summit in 2006. the european union and the countries of latin america and the caribbean agreed that the lima summit, to be called 'taking stock of the priorities of our peoples', would focus on two key chapters. first, poverty, inequality and exclusion, three issues that are among the key challenges to social cohesion. and secondly, the environment, climate change and energy in the context of sustainable development. as regards the first, poverty, inequality and exclusion, let me stress that social cohesion is a key objective for the european union and at the same time a goal that is in line with a long-standing european tradition. social cohesion means all three, it means fighting poverty, inequality and exclusion. all three components are closely interlinked. we agree with the countries of latin america and the caribbean that we need to strengthen our cooperation in all these areas, and we intend to pay particular attention to the following themes: social protection, tax policies and their effectiveness, productive investment for more and better jobs, policies to combat all forms of discrimination, whether sexual, ethnic, religious or any other, improvement of basic social services and social safety nets and quality of education. an important aspect of social progress is the provision of adequate jobs. as you know, all the agreements concluded by the european union with the countries and regions of latin america contain articles on cooperation in the field of social policy and commitments to respect the so-called core labour standards as defined by the international labour organisation. in preparation for the lima summit, both sides are looking at ways of promoting the jobs so identified, particularly in small and medium-sized enterprises. the slovenian presidency also stresses that greater investment in education, especially primary and vocational education, is crucial to improving the competitiveness of our countries both in the european union and in latin america and the caribbean. the second key chapter of the forthcoming summit: sustainable development and the environment, climate change and energy. we stress that poverty is closely linked to these issues. climate change will have a profound impact on our economies, growth and policies to reduce poverty. we already know that the most vulnerable groups are likely to be the most affected. we are aware, both in the european union and in latin america and the caribbean, of the security risks posed by climate change. we also know that the consequences of inaction would far outweigh the costs of preventive action. the current discussions on the declaration to be adopted at the summit clearly demonstrate a determination to tackle together many aspects of this global challenge. we will have to change unsustainable patterns of production and consumption, both of them. it is necessary to provide for concrete and rapid measures for the sustainable management of forests and the use of resources to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to encourage investment in low-carbon production, to preserve biodiversity, to manage water resources and the like. the european union and the countries of latin america and the caribbean will of course give priority to continuing cooperation in all three areas, including and especially within the united nations. so much for the introduction, thank you for your attention.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank parliament, as did the minister, for putting this european union-latin america and the caribbean summit on the agenda of its plenary session. this will be the fifth high-level meeting between our two regions since the launch of our strategic partnership at the rio summit in 1999. the lima summit will focus on two specific themes: the fight against poverty, inequality and exclusion on the one hand, and the environment, climate change and energy on the other. the summit is taking place in a very stimulating context. the latin american and caribbean region is undergoing a transformation. for the first time, the region recorded an average increase in its gross domestic product of around 5% over the last five years. thus, public budgets have increased, as have foreign reserves, and this has enabled the region to address the risks of still marked social inequalities. it should not be forgotten that more than 200 million people still live in poverty. the region is also gaining in importance internationally as a producer of agricultural products and biofuels. these developments are part of a political environment divided between the democratic way, which remains the most widespread system in the region, and a growing tendency towards populism, or even, in some cases, towards the strengthening of executive power to the detriment of parliamentarism and the rule of law. as you know, europe is involved at many levels. it is committed, together with the region, to overcoming these structural problems. europe remains the largest donor of development cooperation and the largest foreign employer. europe, the region's second largest trading partner, leads the way in terms of investment, far outstripping china. our comprehensive association agreements with chile and mexico have had a significant impact on the growth of our trade since they were first implemented. we are now in the third round of negotiations for the conclusion of association agreements with the andean community and central america, which all indications are that they will take place in the near future. we are committed to promoting and supporting regional integration by sharing europe's positive experience in this field. in the same spirit, we are now negotiating with mercosur to examine the means at our disposal to unblock the current situation. we have recently signed a strategic partnership with brazil, which should lead to the launch of a first joint action plan before the end of this year. the caribbean is the first and so far the only region to have successfully negotiated an economic partnership agreement with the union under the cotonou agreement. we are, of course, continuing to support democracy and human rights throughout the region, both through cooperation programmes and also by deploying, where appropriate and only at their request, election observation missions. i would like to conclude, mr president, by mentioning the priorities for the summit and for the immediate future. social cohesion and regional integration, due to their importance for economic and political stability, and multilateralism, due to the high convergence of values between the two regions, must remain the political priorities of the eu-latin america-caribbean partnership. the european union's main objective for the lima summit is to consolidate the existing strategic partnership and to advance it on two fronts, social cohesion and sustainable development, which will be of paramount importance for our relationship with the region in the near future. in the area of social cohesion, the european commission has implemented major aid and cooperation programmes to reduce poverty in the region. 40% of the €2.6 billion allocated to cooperation and development for the next six years is used to solve problems of social cohesion. on environment and climate change, we want to strengthen our cooperation with the region to address this global challenge. it was at the commission's initiative that the first eu-latin america-caribbean ministerial environmental dialogue was launched in march 2008 as a prelude to the lima summit. we must seize the opportunity to acknowledge with our partners in the region the link between sustainable development and climate change, even though the priority given to climate change issues remains relatively modest for many latin american countries, despite the negative and often dramatic consequences of climate change for the region. finally, the european union must emphasize the important role it continues to play in promoting this regional integration and the positive impact of this regional integration on the economic and political stability of the subregions. these are some of the information i am giving to parliament, obviously with a great deal of interest in the speeches that are to come.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, beyond mere rhetorical questions, the european parliament's ambitious resolution which it is going to adopt tomorrow is to go from words to deeds, fully supporting the lima agenda on poverty, social exclusion and also on the preservation of the environment and the fight against climate change, proposing a whole series of measures. we also want to work more closely on the conclusion of the association agreements - those in which we must have faith and in which we must believe - with mercosur, the andean community and central america, so that they can be concluded as soon as possible, especially during this parliamentary term, so that our parliament can give its mandatory assent. we have also wanted to express our solidarity with the people kidnapped in colombia, with all the people, including, of course, ingrid betancourt, and to call again for their unconditional and immediate release. latin america, mr president, is a region with 600 million inhabitants, which contributes 10% of the world's gross domestic product, supports 40% of the world's plant species and has exceptional human resources. but for the european union, latin america is not just a market, it is a continent with a shared history and common values that seem to be consolidating, albeit not everywhere, with some effort: freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. that is the message we want to convey today from the european parliament, and which we will reiterate through the eurolat assembly next week in lima: the building of a strategic and regional partnership based on values, a bi-regional strategic partnership with a soul. mr president, i think this is an excellent opportunity to ask the presidency of the council and the commission to make every effort, and this parliament will contribute to the success of the lima summit and also to convey - and you will have the opportunity to do so on behalf of the house, mr president - a clear and well-defined message of the european union's new commitment to latin america.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, a community like the latin caribbean, which in the whole of the american continent has a population similar to that of our union and with which they can converse in their own languages, portuguese, french and spanish, among others, deserves very special consideration and attention from the european institutions. with this community, in addition to historical ties, we share christian roots, principles, values and numerous interests, so we must continue to deepen the bi-regional strategic partnership already proclaimed at the four summits of heads of state and government, which have preceded the lima summit that we are discussing here today. and in this spirit, we must continue to bring our societies closer together, not only socially and culturally but also politically, commercially, economically, in the field of security, in the fight against climate change and in the field of sustainable development. i agree with the idea of giving this association an overall strategic vision which, following those already in force with mexico and chile, will promote the conclusion, in the shortest possible time, of the negotiations with mercosur, the andean community and central america and which, supported by a multicultural vision, will enable us to create a euro-latin american area of global interregional association, based on a model compatible with the world trade organisation and envisaging the free movement of persons and free trade and regional exchanges. to this end, europe must contribute to the diversification and modernisation of latin american production facilities through technology transfer and training schemes, to the creation of an appropriate and favourable framework for investment, backed by a comparable legal certainty, to latin american integration and, as the goal of all of the above, to the eradication of poverty, inequality and exclusion. we must make intelligent use of the community instruments for financing development cooperation, the promotion of democracy and human rights and also the other programmes in the fields of training, education, scientific and technical cooperation, health, emigration, etc. we should create a solidarity fund, a conflict prevention centre, a foundation for the promotion of dialogue, an immigration observatory and, immediately, resolve properly the incorporation of mercosur into the euro-latin american parliamentary assembly (eurolat). the future does not wait, mr president, and uniting the atlantic is the challenge of the west in the context of globalisation and the 21st century.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i would like to begin by recalling that we are facing a summit with a dubious process and certainly unpredictable results. no one doubts the importance of improving relations between two of the most populous and certainly most progressive regions in the world today, namely europe and latin america. however, it is also true that, at least for the time being, and in view of the results of the previous summits, the unknowns are very high. for example, beyond the rhetoric, the reality is that the framework of relations between the european union and latin america has, at least for the time being, done little to promote regional integration or reduce poverty in latin america. it is not lost on anyone that it is not easy to find concrete agreements in such a wide-ranging forum with such disparate political views as the lima summit and other precedents. but i think it is important to pay proper attention to the socio-political movements taking place in the region and threatening to change the majorities that have existed so far in the americas. and, by the way, i would like to take this opportunity to express my congratulations on the result of president lugo, who is in paraguay one of the symbols of these changes of trend that we will have to take into account very clearly. i am very sceptical about what will emerge from the summit of heads of state scheduled for mid-may, beyond reiterating the triple commitment already made in the past, on the other hand, in relation to the fight against poverty and in favour of social cohesion and sustainable development. and yet, i remain committed to not squandering this new opportunity as we have in the past. in particular, there are two aspects which i consider to be fundamental and which i would like to see reflected both in the discussions and in the conclusions that are being drawn. first, it must be borne in mind that the association agreements between the european union and latin america must not only be comprehensive, ambitious and balanced, but above all they must contribute to respect for the human, economic and social rights of the population, as well as to mutual and sustainable development and the reduction of inequalities. secondly, we must take account of the asymmetries between the two regions, and this is expressed in an ambition: that we do not move towards what some seem to want, which is a ftaa on a european scale. i would also like the summit to echo one of the requests made by this parliament recently in connection with the fight against the murder of women, feminicide, because i believe that this is undoubtedly one of the main global challenges today and also in the region concerned. i would also like to call again on the organisers of the summit, in this case the authorities of peru and, in particular, lima, to ensure that civil society is properly involved, which means, among other things, that the network of civil society organisations 'linking alternatives' can have the necessary space and facilities to be able to develop their debates and work in the framework of the summit, with a view precisely to that opening of dialogue which has been called for for a long time. and finally, with regard to colombia, it is clear that important measures are urgently needed and i would even say, in some cases, drastic measures, but in any case i am of the opinion - and many of us are of the opinion - that any action in this context must be taken in the context of the search for a negotiated solution to the armed conflict. otherwise, i fear there will be no solution, no positive results, especially for the people we want to see immediately free today, but also for those groups who are clearly threatened and endangered today, for many reasons, not only by the guerrillas, but also by other actors.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister of the council, the agenda for the fifth summit is indeed a concrete agenda to discuss social exclusion and poverty. there is a reality, ladies and gentlemen, and that is that there is a popular response to all those policies which have impoverished one of the richest regions on the planet. the new incorporation of the people of paraguay, with the election of president fernando lugo, is the clearest confirmation of that confirmation in the street, in the elections, in the face of those neoliberal policies that have impoverished the continent. the european union must therefore take account of this reality. we therefore believe that a new position of the european union towards the republic of cuba must be incorporated into this new reality. mr council minister, in june there is an opportunity to put an end to the old policy in relation to the exceptional treatment which the european union has maintained with the republic of cuba, which is the only country in the world - in the world - with which the european union has maintained this exceptional treatment. it is already a fact that, in the bilateral reality of the relationship between the member states and cuba, that position, which no longer exists, has been blown up and we therefore have a magnificent opportunity to join this new reality imposed by latin america and the caribbean. in that sense, we will share the common resolution. we have reached a compromise, i think important, between all the groups in this parliament to reach that agreement. there are two amendments which we will certainly support. one, in relation to colombia, because we understand, as the united nations put it, that the conflict in colombia must be resolved by negotiation, political negotiation. there is no other way to resolve this conflict. and, from there, to also put forward our position that civil society should participate actively, as an alternative to the summit of heads of state and government in lima. in this sense we will also ask the government of peru to do everything in its power to ensure that these meetings, linking alternatives, civil society are also present with their positions, with their criticisms and with their alternatives.
mr president, i would first of all like to support the words of the president and spokesman for my group on this subject, martin schulz, and say that euro-latin american relations are, in my view, the most important, the most promising relations that the european union can have, because of their dimensions, as has already been said here, because of the convergence of values in the multilateralism of the united nations and, moreover, because of the developments in latin america, an economic development of growth and poverty reduction. all are democratic countries, it is true, with the sole exception of cuba. lima is a good opportunity for us, among the other 49 countries, to invite the cuban authorities to start a peaceful and dialogue-based process of transition to democracy and it is also a great opportunity to establish a real, lasting and enduring strategic alliance. and finally, to avoid falling into the very typical european romantic temptations with regard to terrorism or with regard to organizations which, like the farc, are now narco-guerrilla groups rather than romantic guerrillas as in the 1970s. they could be invited to renounce violence unconditionally, unilaterally and unconditionally.
mr president, latin america shares many principles and values with the european union, which is explained by close historical, human and cultural ties. we are, as it were, natural partners. the lima summit should strengthen our bi-regional partnership with latin america and the caribbean at all levels and promote concertation to tackle together global challenges, from climate change to drug trafficking or terrorism. one of the most serious problems facing latin america is social inequality. we must help them in this challenge, and i trust that the lima agenda for poverty eradication is ambitious but obviously the political will of the governments concerned is irreplaceable. economic growth, which is facilitated by private investment, is also a key element in the fight against poverty. but they are calling for stable legal frameworks and i would like to see a commitment to the principle of legal certainty emerge from the lima summit. in latin america, they should not frighten away foreign investors, who in globalization will easily find other regions to invest in. in order to strengthen bi-regional relations, including economic and trade relations, the negotiations on association agreements with the central american and andean countries should be accelerated. i hope that the lima summit will also help to unblock the negotiations with mercosur. the agreements between chile and mexico should be a stimulus. a mexico, by the way, whose association with the european union must be considered to be raised to the category of strategic. ladies and gentlemen, in order to strengthen human and educational ties, i hope that in lima we will also promote the so-called higher education area, the common area of higher education, and that we will thus continue to make progress in collaboration between universities and in the objective of the recognition of studies and qualifications. the euro-latin american foundation should also be approved at this summit, as a kind of think tank to promote bi-regional relations and to give the necessary visibility to our partnership, which unfortunately is not well known in europe. finally, i hope that the summit will lead to a renewed commitment to pluralistic democracy and respect for human rights, in line with the deep-rooted idea of human dignity that we share on both sides of the atlantic. the figure of the political prisoner, mr president, should disappear completely from ibero-america and also from cuba, and violence against dissidents should be banned.
mr president, latin america is a continent in change. there are changes continuously taking place and, specifically, in the last few months, or weeks, or days, there have been two major changes. on the one hand, cuba's policy on the treatment of its citizens in economic and social matters and, on the other, the elections in paraguay, which seem to promise a completely different government. in the face of these kinds of situations, these changes, how have the council and the commission reacted to take account of the changes and the possibility of influencing these two countries?
in writing. - having been interrupted by the president, who was applying much more strictly than my colleagues before me, i wish to complete my statement. we must certainly welcome the determination with which the community institutions have overcome the ups and downs of the project. we are finally in a position to start planning the deployment phase of galileo with certainty. we also welcome the efforts made to ensure that participation in the programme is as wide as possible. that said, i would like to stress one essential point: the civil nature of the project, which is a prerequisite for ensuring transparency in operations. the independence of the european system will allow the certification of the services offered to users and provide guarantees of their quality. conditions necessary for the development of new commercial applications which offer a great opportunity to our smes and which have a great environmental and social potential. navigation for the blind, planning the most accessible route for disabled people, assistance for alzheimer's patients or rapid location of people in case of emergency are examples of applications aimed at improving the quality of life of citizens. parliament has always given its full support to galileo by making legislative and budgetary commitments and clearly recognising that galileo is a strategic project.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i think it is essential to stress the need for edfs in the acp countries. it is essential that declarations such as the 2005 paris declaration are taken seriously, and revised from time to time, as then the net aid figures will appear. but the fact is that, because of a terrible lack of coordination between member states, official development assistance donated by them has fallen from 0.4% of gdp in 2006 to less than 0.38% last year. this tiny percentage actually represents a loss of eur 1.7 billion. but the worst of all is that the partner countries are in a constant state of stop-and-go, unable to make long-range plans, because they do not know whether they will have sufficient funding for this, even though it has been promised by the member states. the saddest part of all this is that we demand that they meet their requirements when we forget. you can't work together like that.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the situation in burma.
the chairman of the council. - i have already said that the general affairs and external relations council will discuss the issue of burma at its next meeting and is expected to adopt conclusions. i'll talk about that later, but first i'd like to respond to some comments. mr. cappato first. i should point out that the council has never discussed the possibility of inviting the dalai lama to a meeting of the general affairs and external relations council. i don't think that's ever going to happen. but if it did, it would be about tibet, not burma, which is the point of reference at the moment. however, let me say this: what is needed to improve the situation with regard to tibet is not so much a dialogue between the european union and the dalai lama as a dialogue between the chinese authorities and the dalai lama. this is something that the slovenian presidency has already publicly advocated on several occasions. now, to the forthcoming meeting of the general affairs and external relations council. we expect the council to include in its conclusions the following: to reiterate its deep concern at the situation in burma and to call on the authorities to take urgent action to bring about a transition to legitimate civilian rule and national reconciliation. we also expect the council to call for an open debate on the referendum and also for the referendum itself to be free and fair and - this is also something mrs flautre mentioned - for the burmese authorities to invite international observers to observe the referendum. i have no doubt that the council will call for the immediate release of all political prisoners, as mr howitt has pointed out. i also have no doubt that he will specifically call for the immediate release of ms. san suu kyi. but we also expect that the sanctions regime, which would otherwise have expired, as you have rightly pointed out, mr van orden, we expect that it will be extended for a further 12 months with the possibility of adjusting it at any time during that time depending on the situation, to tighten it up or not. as for the weapons, this is the question mr. romagnoli mentioned: the european union, as you know, strictly prohibits the export of any weapons and related materials to burma. this is part of the european union sanctions and this too is expected to be extended along with the sanctions system, with the sanctions mechanism. we are trying to get the same from other member states. in conclusion, i would say that it is possible to say, as mrs flautre said, that the united nations strategy for burma has failed. or it could be said that it has not yet borne fruit. i'm leaning towards the other option.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i have listened with great attention to all the reports which show how far burma still has to go to find the path to democracy, and we are well aware of this. we must continue to strengthen the policy we have adopted, and in this connection i would like to say that we have recently stepped up sanctions specifically targeting the regime and its leaders. discussions are under way in the council on further financial sanctions. i would add that the general affairs and external relations council on 29 april will be an opportunity for political prisoners to call once again on the regime to put an end to all these measures of intimidation and imprisonment. we are very attentive to maintaining solidarity with aun san suu kyi. i must say that we cannot have direct contact with her, but we do have contact with members of her party. of course, some of you have referred, beyond the sanctions, to the cooperation of the neighbouring countries which should help us to act on the burmese regime. i should tell you that mrs ferrero-waldner will be raising the burma issue this week in china. and the commission has already started to approach the thai government. indonesia seems to be preparing a new initiative. but you are quite right in insisting on the need for the mobilization of the neighbouring countries. so i now come to the problem of assistance to the population. we know that the burmese people must not pay the price for the political stalemate into which the leaders are plunging the country. for europe, condemnation and the sheer isolation of myanmar cannot be enough. and i would like to make it clear that we are trying to provide assistance, and at the same time we are taking every opportunity to remind the regime that only better governance will make this assistance as effective as it needs to be. so mr cappato expressed your concern, in particular, about the way in which the allocation of this international aid is controlled. i should point out that international aid is provided through un agencies and ngo partners. and i can tell you that this is being followed very closely. but you were right to remind us of that. i think that what we want to do is to put as much pressure as possible on burma to move really faster towards democracy and at the same time we want to avoid, in some way, making the burmese people even more miserable by total isolation, which probably would not be the appropriate response.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 24 april 2008. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on illegal immigration, the european union's external action and frontex.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner - you have said it yourself - frontex is working. last year, for example, thanks to joint operations, the arrival of illegal immigrants to the canary islands was reduced by 61%. however, the mafia networks are looking for new ways to circumvent the control operations. they're going at a hare's pace and our answers are turtle's pace. we all know the la fontaine fable and its outcome: we will win the race, that's true, but how many lives will be lost along the way? ladies and gentlemen, we must be clear, to ourselves and to the citizens. do we really want to tackle the problem of illegal flows together or do we just want to give the impression that we are doing so? frontex is an added value in reducing the arrival of illegal immigrants, saving lives and fighting human trafficking with a strong deterrent effect in the areas monitored. but, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to go further and achieve an integrated european system for the management of all the external borders of the union. frontex needs the right mandates and the right means. the commission's proposals are moving in the right direction, but we want to know the degree of solidarity and commitment of the member states in the fight against illegal immigration, a phenomenon which affects everyone and not just the countries on the southern border. how do the member states react to the idea of developing a european border guard system? in the light of frontex's operational capacity, how does the council view the establishment of regional centres of the agency in sensitive areas and, in particular, at the southern maritime borders? in the key area of border surveillance too, what will be the role of frontex in iconet, and how has the future creation of eurosur been received in the council? and finally, i agree with you, commissioner, that cooperation with third countries is key in the fight against illegal immigration. what steps will frontex take to facilitate the development of agreements reached by member states such as spain? i think answering these kinds of questions can be the first indication of how and when we're going to win the race.
madam president, illegal immigration is showing its harshest and most dramatic face in the time coinciding with the arrival of good weather on the atlantic and mediterranean fronts. mob groups are operating more frequently now by supposedly reducing risks. that is why this debate is absolutely necessary, in order to support, encourage and promote all the initiatives to neutralize and prevent this criminal scourge which puts so many lives at risk and violates our borders with frequent impunity. the union's external action in this area is of the utmost importance. the pilot projects in montavia and cape verde bear witness to this. parliament recently authorised the libe commission to assist in this task by allowing travel to senegal and mauritania, which are important sources of irregular migrants and transit points. from now on, the union's external action on immigration must be more active, more visible and be projected to more important countries and as soon as possible to guinea-conakry. frontex, which has made so much progress in such a short time, has funds, 70 million, and well-designed coordination capacities, but it needs the unequivocal support of the council, so that, for example, crate is more than a catalogue of means or a statement of offers, because the problem is persistent and dramatic and requires us to continue to insist and to maintain operational assets of prevention, assistance and surveillance, means and personnel deployed in time and permanently in time, in the canary islands and in the mediterranean. in the first quarter of the year 1 702 immigrants arrived in the canary islands, compared with 1 425 in the same period the previous year. now more are coming in, but in fewer boats. 48 305 immigrants arrived in the canary islands in three years. it is true that they decreased significantly, from 31 000 to 11 000, in the period 2006 to 2007. but the harsh reality today is that every day more and more immigrants arrive at the ports of the canaries and every day we find bodies in the mediterranean, near the coasts of oran, or in the canaries themselves. on the other hand, madam president - and i will finish here - between 15 and 20% of irregular returnees try again. so the problem is persistent. that's why we need more global common will and less common rhetoric.
the chairman of the council. - first of all, i would like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and its chairman, mr miroslav ouzký, for the oral question you have put to me, to the council and to the commission. you are also making a big deal out of this very sensitive issue of biodiversity. biodiversity is the presidency's top priority in the field of environment, alongside climate change. the ninth session of the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity (cop 9), to be held in bonn in may, is therefore an important event for the european union in general, as well as for the slovenian presidency. the council has been preparing very intensively for this important meeting, under the 18-month programme of the german, portuguese and slovenian presidencies, in order to make it a success, both in terms of better protection and sustainable use of biodiversity at global level. he recalled that the european union had committed itself to a global target of a significant reduction in the rate of biodiversity loss by 2010 and to an eu-wide target of halting the loss of biodiversity in europe by 2010. so to your specific question, i answer: yes, the european union wants and must maintain its leading role in the world. the council also stressed that the european union was committed to playing an active and constructive role and that it would seek ambitious but at the same time feasible outcomes at the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity, which will take place in may, as we have said. the council also stressed, inter alia, that sustained efforts at all levels and further concrete actions are essential to achieve the global biodiversity target for 2010. here, implementation of the convention is essential, both at national and eu level. and the european union has made a political commitment to all three objectives of the convention on biological diversity, namely the protection and sustainable use of biodiversity and access to and sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources. the first was in june last year, and the second was on 3 march this year, when the council adopted conclusions setting out the european union's priorities for the ninth conference of the parties. let me just list a few of the priorities. it is necessary to underline the importance of accelerating the implementation of all work programmes of the convention on biological diversity, to improve synergies between climate change and biodiversity policies to maximise the mutual benefits. in this context, the council has consistently stressed the need for coordination in the implementation of international environmental agreements at all levels. it is necessary to underline the urgency of addressing the issue of production, trade and consumption of biofuels and biomass and their impact on biodiversity and ecosystem services at the ninth conference. it is all the more important to clearly define the sustainability criteria for the production of biofuels. emphasise the importance of implementing the forest biodiversity programme and reducing deforestation and degradation of forest ecosystems. the council stresses the importance of forests in mitigating and adapting to climate change while preserving biodiversity. this is to ensure the rapid and comprehensive implementation of the protected areas work programme; in this context, also to provide technical and financial support - you also asked about finances - i.e. financial support for the establishment of protected areas worldwide. the ninth session should adopt ecological criteria for the designation of marine areas to be protected on the high seas. it is necessary to emphasise the important role that the private sector, including small and medium-sized enterprises, can play in the implementation of this convention. finally, the european union is determined to continue to play an active part in the development and negotiation of an international regime for access to genetic resources and the sharing of the benefits arising from their use. the european union will also endeavour to conclude the negotiations before the 10th conference of the parties to the convention convenes. to conclude, the meeting will cover more than 20 different subjects. i have only highlighted those that the council considers to be essential to achieving the objectives of the convention and in particular the 2010 biodiversity target. this is the last meeting before the 2010 deadline and is therefore a milestone for the adoption of concrete measures. but since this is a european meeting, it is all the more important for the european union to highlight its priorities and efforts. i have also read your motion for a resolution which you will be voting on tomorrow in the european parliament. in our view, the resolution sums up well the main priorities and objectives which are also important for the european union to achieve in bonn.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, first of all, i would like to thank mr ouzký for this very important question. i think we all noticed how, in 2007, environmental issues rose to the top of the political agenda. climate change grabbed the headlines and popular imagination. but the loss of biodiversity is a global threat that needs to be faced with the same urgency, and they are linked. climate change and biodiversity are linked. a failure to recognise this relationship may undermine our efforts for improvements in both areas. how do we halt the loss of biodiversity? well, i believe that europe made some progress in this area by implementing the activities covered by the communication of 2006 from the commission ‘halting the loss of biodiversity by 2010 – and beyond’. however, more efforts are needed. in particular we need a stronger buy-in of sectors other than nature conservation, such as agriculture, fisheries and energy. effective international cooperation is also essential and we are firmly committed to working through the convention on biological diversity to protect global diversity worldwide. the ninth conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity, which will be held back-to-back with the fourth meeting of the parties to the cartagena protocol on biosafety, offers a remarkable opportunity to step up the protection of biodiversity and, since these meetings will be hosted and chaired by germany, europe has a particular role. we will push for the acceleration of international efforts towards achieving the global target of significantly reducing biodiversity loss by 2010. at the beginning of march, the council adopted conclusions that set up the broad political mandate and the main priorities for the eu at these meetings. they can be summarised in seven points. first, we want to agree on new commitments to enhance implementation, in particular as regards the execution of the convention on biological diversity’s programmes on protected areas and forest biodiversity. secondly, we want to ensure that climate change adaptation and mitigation measures also support the 2010 biodiversity target. the decisions to be taken in bonn should contribute to the post-bali debate on reduced emissions from deforestation and forest degradation. thirdly, we will promote the adoption of criteria for the identification of vulnerable marine areas to be protected. in addition, we also intend to commit all the contracting parties in terms of how to apply these criteria. fourthly, we want to develop international guidance for promoting biodiversity-friendly ways of enhancing the production and consumption of biomass, including biofuels. fifthly, we aim to identify the main components of an international regime on access to genetic resources and the sharing of benefits arising from their use. sixthly, we want an agreement on the establishment of an international mechanism on scientific expertise on biodiversity. and seventhly, and finally, we will promote a decision in the field of liability and redress for damage resulting from transboundary movements of living modified organisms. so the commission always facilitates the inclusion of members of parliament in community delegations negotiating multilateral agreements. i have, myself, very positive experience of doing this. i welcome the participation of members of the european parliament at cop 9 and mop 4, as they are called in the language we use in this context. i am, of course, interested in hearing your priorities and expectations for these meetings.
i am speaking this afternoon on behalf of mrs gutiérrez cortines. the first thing i want to say is that parliament is clearly and very strongly supporting the meeting of the conference of the parties to the united nations convention on biological diversity. the resolution to be voted on tomorrow seeks to reinforce the main aims and intentions of the world convention in the following ways: firstly, to promote greater protection of the natural resources of fauna and flora; secondly, to promote sustainable land use to promote the conservation of species and nature; and, secondly, to conserve our natural genetic capital. in this respect, i believe that we should take into account conservation programmes, the models that have already been applied in the european union, particularly natura 2000 and habitats, which have proved to be very useful. on the other hand, i believe that we must work in a systematic way with integrated and flexible models because, after all, nature is a dynamic system, constantly evolving and affected by all kinds of demands for use that nature itself has, both for agriculture and for other functions. i also believe that more scientific and training criteria should be used, and i also believe that all economic and feasibility aspects should be taken into account in this respect. the opinion of owners and the incentives for owners are an important issue and in this connection i would ask the commission two questions. how do you envisage the application of scientific methods in the cataloguing and identification of varieties of species or areas to be preserved? how do you envisage incentives for owners at all levels?
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, mr minister for the council, madam commissioner, we are all aware that the loss of biological diversity is having far-reaching environmental, social, economic and cultural effects, which have been exacerbated by the negative effects of climate change. the consequences of this situation are even worse for the poorest. the convention on biological diversity is the most important international legal instrument to combat the loss of biological diversity. but we have a problem: the lack of financial resources is a major obstacle to achieving the objectives of the convention. i therefore call on the council and the commission to promote budgetary allocations for the conservation of biological diversity in all relevant budgets over which they have influence. i would like to stress the points on which the motion for a resolution places particular emphasis: the recognition of the ongoing loss of biodiversity in the european union, which is already a fact, the push for the adoption of an international regime for access to and sharing the benefits of genetic resources, which is fair, equitable and legally binding, and the promotion of the implementation of existing commitments in favour of better conservation and sustainable management of marine biodiversity, with a view to protecting it from destructive practices and unsustainable fishing activities affecting marine ecosystems. i would like to conclude by saying that it is time to act decisively and to try to solve all these problems, because, although i think there is still time - you and we know it - it is running counter to us and to the biodiversity we want to protect.
the chairman of the council. - four months have passed since the last enlargement of the schengen area, which took place on 21 december last year. as you know, the enlargement process was not actually completed until the end of march, when border controls at airports were also abolished. there was thus not much time and opportunity to assess the overall political impact of the enlargement of the schengen area and its impact on relations between the member states of the european union, the countries applying the schengen acquis and neighbouring countries. however, issues such as the reorganisation of the border authorities of certain member states following the enlargement of the schengen area and the changes and trends in illegal immigration that may result from that enlargement are already being discussed by some council working parties. in the area of the common visa policy of the european union, the enlargement of the schengen area has undoubtedly had positive consequences, in particular for third-country nationals. they can travel throughout the schengen area with a visa issued by the new member states, which was not the case before. in addition, the european community has already concluded agreements on visa facilitation with several countries of eastern europe and the western balkans.
madam president, mr minister, thank you very much for your reply. as you come from a country in precisely these circumstances, i am sure that the slovenian presidency is following the matter with great interest. i have personally been bothered to visit a couple of countries where this is the case and i hope that on the one hand we do have a guarantee of the borders, but on the other hand we do not want the european union to build a new wall, a new wall. what guarantees do we have that accession to the schengen area will not create a difficult situation, for example, for frontier workers or for people who used to enter normally into the countries that are now in the schengen area without producing a hostile situation, especially in the case of slovenia, which has as a neighbour a country that is a candidate for accession to the european union?
member of the commission. − madam president, some may say that negotiations on the free trade agreement with the countries of the gulf cooperation council have lasted for 17 years. in fact, it is only since 2002 that the substance has been discussed. we the commission, but also the representatives of the member states in the council, hope to finish the negotiations sooner rather than later. we know that the fta will contribute to the deepening of relations between our regions. the fta negotiations were conducted at an accelerated pace in 2007, culminating in commissioner mandelson’s visit to doha in december 2007, which gave a significant political push. we have made good progress on all chapters and are closer than ever to an agreement. there are, however, some outstanding issues which are important to guarantee real preferential access for the eu to the gcc market and no discrimination compared to others. these issues are export duties, some exceptions in the area of energy services, notably by the uae, and certain horizontal provisions of the agreement, such as competition and intellectual property. a negotiating round was cancelled in january. since then, there has been no feedback from the gcc side at all. we now hope to be able to have the next round in early may, at the same time as the eu-gcc joint committee meeting, which is scheduled for 6 may. our objective remains to make progress in the next round and to conclude the negotiations as soon as possible, hopefully in the early months of the french presidency. the free trade agreement aims at creating a preferential relationship between the eu and the gcc, in line with wto principles and disciplines. it will thus lead to the liberalisation of substantially all trade between parties. it also aims at supporting the member states of the gcc in their policies of economic diversification through encouraging further economic reforms and offering the potential of bringing increased foreign investments, in addition to the increasing dynamics of inward investments in the region. the fta includes significant commitments on trade in services and investments by both sides and mutual access to public procurement markets, also in the energy and transport sectors. it covers ambitious tariff liberalisation schedules, including in the chemicals sector. last but not least, it covers non-tariff areas, such as technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary standards or intellectual property rights. this house has expressed concern that the free trade agreement being negotiated with the gulf cooperation council does not contain clauses on human rights and social and environmental standards. let me, therefore, first of all clarify that the current draft of the eu-gcc free trade agreement does include a number of non-trade clauses – on human rights, migration, counter-terrorism and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. these clauses were agreed with the gcc some years ago. however, it emerged at the last round that the gcc side had some outstanding questions on the wording regarding the suspension clause linked to the application of the essential political elements of the agreement. in addition to these clauses, the preamble of the agreement refers to the need to strengthen the process of economic and social development in the gcc countries, while protecting the environment. it also refers to the fact that the parties shall not encourage foreign direct investment by lowering or relaxing their domestic environment or label standards. it also foresees consultations if it appears that an actual or proposed measure is inconsistent with these principles. the eu-gcc fta negotiations took into account the results and conclusions of a sustainability impact assessment study which was carried out between 2001 and 2004. this was the case, in particular, in sectors which were identified by the consultants as important for a more sustainable economic development in the gcc, namely services and some industrial sectors. further to the request of this house, in february we provided the negotiating directives for the eu-gcc fta, including all its updates according to the agreed procedures and in respect of the confidentiality rules. finally, let me just stress that the european parliament has been regularly updated on the state of play of the eu-gcc fta negotiations and that the european commission will continue to keep it updated.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i would first of all like to thank the commissioner for her explanations and then immediately afterwards to say that, as a socialist group, we consider the signing of the cooperation agreement with the gulf council to be a shared objective. indeed, we must get it as soon as possible. it will be to the benefit of europe, it will be to the benefit of the countries that make up the gulf cooperation council. but it is also true that the mandate to negotiate this agreement is a very old mandate, it is a mandate which does not contain the necessary clauses to concentrate on issues which are key in today's world such as, for example, human rights, labour issues or environmental issues. and so i am glad to hear from the commissioner that the commission will make every effort to include these issues in the agreement. otherwise it would be absolutely incomprehensible, because we are not talking only about trade or economic exchange. look, they are very important countries - we all know that, they have one of the greatest riches that can be evaluated today on the planet, oil, essential for the life of our societies. but in those countries there is not only oil, there are also people, men and women, men and women born in those countries and men and women who come from other countries to work there, and it seems to me that in those countries human rights are not respected as they should be, for example, with regard to freedom of expression or freedom of association. for example, with regard to the inequality of women, one cannot help but feel shame and indignation when reading, for example, news such as those referred to by human rights watch in the sense that women, in some of these countries, need the permission of a so-called "guardian", who can be their father, their husband or even their child, to work, travel, study or even access health services. that is simply unacceptable, totally unacceptable. but of course we can also talk about the situation of the 'as i said before' immigrants working in those countries, who are a large labour force. are your rights guaranteed or not? and what, by the way, is the environmental concern of such major oil-producing countries as the gulf cooperation council? are you interested in climate change or are you interested in the price of oil? this must be said in a friendly way, but with absolute clarity. and so we are pleased that the resolution we are voting on tomorrow has finally included such important paragraphs as paragraphs 17 and 19 - which we feel we have co-authored - which, for example, refer to human rights as the subject of a clause which must be essential in the free trade agreement to be signed with the gulf cooperation council or, for example, to the need for the parties to ratify the conventions of the international labour organisation. we have, however, tabled other amendments which we hope the groups can support, reinforcing those issues. but, be careful, we do not send the wrong message to friendly countries, human rights are defended whether you have oil or not.
madam president, although european livestock production generates more than 40% of the value added of our agricultural production, the fact is that at the moment we do not have enough raw materials to feed our livestock. in my country, spain, the situation for beef cattle, which is more dependent on feed consumption than in some other member states, is devastating. the poor situation in pig and poultry farming is similar throughout europe. as already mentioned, community legislation allows the marketing of feed containing gmos, provided that they are authorised in the european union, but does not provide for a minimum level of presence of non-authorised gmos. this is causing problems, on the one hand, for trade with exporting third countries and, on the other hand, for the european livestock sector itself, which has - as i said - a shortage problem. it is not the first time that i have agreed with mr mulder, and this time i have heard him speak and i think we agree too, because one solution could be to accept the presence of up to a certain threshold of accidental contamination by genetically modified organisms, provided that they have been favourably assessed by the easa and authorized by a third country, in accordance with codex principles and with clear labelling. another solution would be to produce more on european territory, but the commission, in its proposals for checking, seems to exclude that possibility. the case of dried fodder, which is essential for animal feed, is exemplary. the commission, while recognising the danger of production being abandoned, insists on applying the decoupled payment scheme to them. so i repeat that we are facing a serious problem of food shortages for livestock and the european commission has a responsibility to respond to this situation.
madam president, the requirement for listed companies to use ifrs (international financial reporting standards) in their consolidated financial statements since 2005 has been a far-reaching european political initiative with a huge drag on the balance sheet. the rules have spread to nearly 100 countries, have reached a global dimension and have provided comparability and transparency that have increased the confidence of traders, promoted a more level playing field and strengthened market discipline. the initiative raises two major governance challenges. on the one hand, the private, non-profit-making organisation which has been developing voluntary global standards on a corporate and professional basis since 1973 now has a position of enormous responsibility which calls for a transformation of its nature, procedures and composition to become a transparent, accountable and legitimate institution in keeping with its new role. it is about recognising and articulating the action of all the private and public interests involved while ensuring their funding and independence in setting standards. in addition, the organization must be integrated into international governance. on the other hand, european accounting governance itself needs to be strengthened with a more proactive and integrated approach to act in the phases of developing, approving, implementing and evaluating standards. improving the conceptual framework of the standards, taking into account that they are not neutral or academic in nature and that they can produce losers and winners are key aspects. also assess its effects and ensure its compatibility with the european strategy, learn from financial turbulence and resolve balanced accounting rules for administrative concessions. the accounting of smes will have to be approached in a simple way and linked to their exploitation in the internal and global market. these issues are addressed in mr radwan's report, which has achieved a high degree of consensus and is very timely in the review process which is due to take place at the end of 2009 and which envisages anticipating the creation of a monitoring group and changing the composition of the council before next year.
madam president, the recent financial crises have shown the importance of the quality of accounting standards for the proper functioning of markets. this being an incontrovertible statement, it seems to me that the crisis also teaches that there is a certain asymmetry between the importance of 'legal' accounting standards and the nature and functioning of the private bodies responsible for creating, producing and interpreting those standards. the radwan report, therefore, makes the wise point that the first issue to be addressed is the issue of governance and, in my view, makes intelligent and possible proposals on the leading role that the representative institutions of the union should have in this process of creating rules to be incorporated into the community order and also on the internal operating rules of these private bodies. greater transparency, barriers to avoid conflicts of interest, greater geographical representativeness, are some of the recipes put forward by my colleague mr radwan. secondly, the second aspect dealt with in the report is the issue of small and mediumsized enterprises. it's underlined here. the aim is to reconcile two objectives: simplification and lower cost of accounting standards for smes with the appropriate information they must provide to market participants. the last point raised by mr radwan - and i agree with him - is the need for global standards in a global village. it is therefore extremely important to reach agreements with the other major financial areas of the world, particularly the united states. and that again requires a greater prominence, a greater role, a greater role for the institutions of the european union, including this parliament which is listening to us at this moment.
madam president, in agreement with the author of the amendment, i suggest that when the text refers to the andalusian regional authorities, 'and local' should be added. thus, 'andalusian regional and local authorities' would remain.
madam president, at the end of paragraph 16, after the last line which says 'and the increase in global challenges', the proposal is to add the following: 'but also characterized by the emergence of serious and widespread economic crises to the mitigation or solution of which regional integration contributes best'.
the situation in zimbabwe is one which i believe deserves to be dealt with at this emergency session. i therefore join, as i could not do otherwise, those who have already expressed their condemnation of the repressive actions against opposition groups, journalists or human rights defenders by government forces. and i hope that this resolution will at least serve to support those who, from within and without, are trying to turn the situation in favour of a democratic process. however, there is one aspect which i would like to stress in particular and which relates to the already famous case of the chinese ship an yue jiang, loaded with 77 tonnes of weapons and ammunition, bound for zimbabwe and forced to leave the south african port of durban after the dockers refused to unload it and a judge ruled that the weapons could not be transported through south africa. according to my information, the ship is now looking for another port to unload, although it seems that, in the face of local opposition to accepting such a cargo, the ship could return to china without achieving its purpose. once again, it is clear that the movement of this ship should never have been accepted, and that all governments must work together to get an international arms transfer treaty as soon as possible, since, unfortunately, there are many cases in the world which, like zimbabwe, should not be accepted as destinations for arms and ammunition of any kind. this example should therefore serve as a motivation for a strong and legally binding att (arms trade treaty), as has been demanded for years by both ngos, which are part of the iansa network, and - let us remember this once again - by this parliament.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women are respected, and that the rights of men are respected. the good news is that thanks, no doubt, at least in part, to this campaign, ebrahimi was released on march 17 after spending eleven years in prison. the bad news is that her partner didn't have that much luck and was stoned to death a year ago, as well as at least ten other women, as well as two men, are at risk of being stoned to death in iran. unfortunately, this is not an isolated incident in a country where the human rights situation, including that of women, has reached worrying records in terms of abuses. in fact, executions doubled in 2007, making iran the country with the highest per capita execution rate after saudi arabia, and both countries represent, along with yemen, the three countries with the highest executions of people under the age of 18. since the stop stoning forever campaign began in october 2006, six people have been saved from stoning, others have been granted reprieves, and numerous cases are being reviewed. however, i should also point out that there are many examples of persecution and repression of those who dare to be human rights activists in iran. the islamic consultative assembly is currently revising iran's penal code, and yet, in the best case, the sentence of stoning to death would be replaced by other methods of execution and flogging.
mr president, in connection with the vote on zimbabwe, this member is present at the vote but will not be taking part in it. i want it to be noted in the minutes that the reason i am not taking part is that, while i am here, i have decided not to take part in the vote. but i want it to be noted that i am present in the chamber at this moment.
madam president, i would like to join in this celebration of the euro, one of the most outstanding achievements of the european integration process. europe took 40 years to have its central bank, but we must not forget that the united states took 140 years since its independence. the balance sheet has been very positive, the commissioner said, in terms of macroeconomic stability, jobs, purchasing power, european cohesion and even benefits for non-euro area member states, and has provided greater political capacity. looking ahead, i share the commissioner's view that the challenges of globalisation, ageing and climate change in the internal dimension will require welcoming new countries, intensifying coordination to implement the lisbon strategy and evolving to ensure the stability of capital markets. in the external sphere, it will be necessary to assume responsibilities as a new global actor. the euro area is also called upon to be the driving force behind the new progress in community integration.
madam president, the strengthening of relations between the european union and the united states is key in the transatlantic sphere and in an increasingly multipolar world. in economic terms, the united states and europe have the largest bilateral relationship of economic cooperation and trade and investment in the world. breaking down barriers to transatlantic economic integration will boost mutual prosperity. the completion of the transatlantic market in 2015 will require political will. the adoption at the 2007 summit of the framework agreement to advance economic integration was a decisive milestone in recapturing the spirit of the 1995 madrid new transatlantic agenda and in giving new impetus to the transatlantic economic partnership. the message to the transatlantic economic council must be that it has the support of the european parliament to make progress in this direction. the united states and europe are two giants of the global economy and are therefore particularly responsible for shaping a globalization with a human face. their economic integration is a positive benchmark for building an open, reliable and sustainable economy on a global scale. this process, while consistent with multilateral commitments, must go further, opening new paths and pointing to new guidelines for the development of more transparent, reliable and equitable relations under common standards. it will also help to unite efforts in addressing financial stability, climate change and human development needs. product safety, consumer protection, transaction loyalty, reputation protection, the promotion of technological inventions and innovation, accounting rules, the development of financial services and regulatory cooperation are all topics on the agenda. we hope and trust, mr verheugen, that you will not return to parliament empty-handed.
mr president, thank you, commissioner. if i have understood you correctly - and i hope i have understood you correctly and do not confuse my wishes with reality - i believe that you are willing to fight this battle, that you will not give up your capacity for initiative, that you will try to ensure that, before this parliament finishes its work and this commission finishes its work, we finally have a renewed directive on works councils - which has been waiting for this renewal for eight years now - given the evidence that it was very positive in its day, but has now been largely overtaken by events. if that is the case, mr commissioner, you have our full support, my full support, because i think you have the right and you have the duty to support this initiative of the commission when one of the parties does not want that directive to be revised, despite the obvious need to do so. it is necessary because the general interest is at stake. the workers are very angry in europe, and rightly so. i have received a delegation of workers from a factory in valladolid, smurfit kappa, which will be closed next month. they have heard about it in the newspapers and they do not know why they are closing it, because it is a profitable company. they don't even know who their owners are, because the company is part of a conglomerate of companies where you don't know where the shareholders end up anymore. the commissioner, the workers are asking for security and europe must give it to them; it must give them clarity, it must give them the right to be informed and consulted. there can be no restructuring without social dialogue. that is where social dialogue is important and where it is necessary to overcome difficulties. i know it's not easy for you. it will not be easy in the college of commissioners or in the council. however, commissioner, if you go down this road you will have our full support; sometimes you do not win all the battles, but all the important ones must be fought, and this one must be fought.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european union observation mission for the observation of elections in the member states is a good one. and i think it is fair to say that, under the mandate of commissioner benita ferrero, the european union is the world leader in election observation, thanks to its methodology and the credibility of the actions it has been carrying out. as mrs de keyser has said, this report was adopted by 60 votes in favour in the committee on foreign affairs, with zero votes against, and it clearly shows excellent cooperation. i think we must start with the positive facts that experience has left us, but we must not rest on our laurels, even if they are deserved, because there is still much to be done. and in that sense, i think it is important to emphasize the recommendations and suggestions contained in the final reports submitted by the electoral observation missions, without forgetting that they are recommendations and suggestions and that sovereign states can apply them or not, but i think it is important that they can be included in the programmes and in the political dialogues with our partners. another fundamental aspect is the independence of the missions, and the prestige of these missions is due to their objectivity, impartiality and independence. but that independence must be translated into the fact that the missions are able to coordinate with the member states and the commission a single position, so that the european union speaks with one voice and there is no fragmentation as mrs de keyser pointed out when she said that there had been some dysfunctions with the council of ministers. the european union and the european union missions have to work with other missions and they have to work with local organisations as well. finally, mr president, i think it is of the utmost importance that the commission, which has been doing very well in this area, should have a sufficient margin of flexibility and not be constrained by a budgetary straitjacket which would prevent it from carrying out this excellent task. in conclusion, mr president, i express my support and satisfaction for what has been done and my support for the future.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate mr cappato on the work he has done and on the result. and i would like to extend this congratulations to the whole of the subcommittee on human rights, because i think that this work has shown for some time now that this subcommittee has come of age, with all that this implies. there are, however, some points we would like to take up again in connection with the report, and we would ask our colleagues to make a last effort to have them recognised. firstly, to recognize and to recall once again that human rights are universal and indivisible, which is not explicitly stated in the text and we would like it to be, so we have proposed an amendment to that effect. secondly, it would also be good if we agreed that from now on each european union special envoy would have a clear mandate with regard to human rights and, in particular, with regard to ensuring that the human rights guidelines are respected. thirdly, with regard to the guidelines, i think it is important to remember another point: although women's rights are by definition human rights, we understand that the specificities that often accompany certain violations, from a gender perspective, make it highly advisable that new guidelines be adopted as soon as possible, specifically relating to women's rights. finally, although it is true that there are many specific cases which we should mention here, which we cannot do because of the space and time available, i do want to take advantage of this debate to bring to the table once again the violation of human rights which is taking place in western sahara at the hands of the moroccan authorities, which is, as it is, a clear case of unfinished or badly finished decolonisation. it is therefore the duty of spain and, by extension, of the european union not to interfere in this matter, all the more so since the united nations council itself has again called for the conflict to be resolved by a just and lasting solution in accordance with international law, and we all know that this implies, above all, the application of the right of self-determination.
thank you, man. we're in that "see the straw in the other man's eye and not see the beam in your own eye" thing.
mr. president, thank you very much. on 13 april, mr ennaama asfari, a human rights defender in western sahara, was arrested in marrakesh. another arrest has occurred in morocco. i would like to say to the honourable members that we must not forget that the european union is responsible for the process of decolonisation under the auspices of the united nations. we are responsible and therefore it is obligatory in any human rights report to state that the european union must be demanding, vigilant and compliant with the resolutions of the united nations security council. secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a civilization, in the 21st century, where the population is getting poorer, is getting hungrier, has more diseases and is more unequal. in the last ten years, according to the united nations, africa has become poorer. i therefore want to demand, to raise, to ask for the recognition of all human rights: economic, social, cultural and political. if we had a level playing field, we would have many surprises when we ranked countries that do not respect human rights. i therefore believe that we must be much more sensitive and consider the whole of the respect for human rights.
we now come to the turn of speakers who take the floor having 'caught the eye' of the president. i would like to say that at the meeting of the high level group on gender equality and diversity today, a vice-president was very much criticised for saying that only male members 'catch the eye' and that, on the other hand, female members do not 'catch the eye'. i want to tell you that in this case, i'm going to have it very easy, because all those who have asked to "hunt the eye" are ladies. so let us not fall prey to the criticism we were subjected to just an hour ago.
the chairman of the council. - the time allotted to the council representative in this debate has unfortunately expired, so i too will be disciplined and extremely brief. let me just congratulate all the rapporteurs on their extremely high-quality and useful reports. i would also like to thank all those who took part in this debate for their views. on behalf of the presidency, i can assure you that we will endeavour to take them into account to the greatest possible extent in the conduct of the council's activities in the future.
thank you, minister. in fact, in this debate, neither the council nor the commission have a fixed time, strange as it may seem. so you may have overestimated the time you had available. thank you very much, however, for using it so sparingly in this second intervention. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the rapporteur, mr president, would also like to thank the honourable members for their very welcome comments on the report i have drawn up with mrs de keyser on electoral observation missions, knowing that they do not only concern the election day but also the electoral system, the legal framework, equal opportunities and access to the media, the financing of political parties, the dispute settlement system, etc. but i think the most important thing, mr president, is to point out that this report on electoral observation, like the report drawn up by mr cappato on the situation of human rights in the world, does not have an abstract purpose, but a cause, and that cause is the commitment we have in the european union, and in our parliament in particular, to a whole series of values: democracy, freedom, the rule of law, the rule of law and, above all, respect for human rights. in this house, mr president, the democratic pulse of the european union beats, and that is why, mr president, we must always speak out very clearly and forcefully, sending a clear and well-defined message of our unwavering and unwavering commitment to the cause of human rights, which, as we have heard in this house this afternoon, is not the concern or the message of a region or a continent, but a universal planetary character.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance.
mr president, the european commission published a note yesterday in which it states that the special tax called 'special tax on retail sales of certain hydrocarbons' is not in accordance with community legislation. the commission considers, inter alia, that the main objective of the tax is to strengthen the autonomy of the regions by providing them with the means to generate tax revenue. tomorrow, 8 may, the advocate general of luxembourg will issue his report on the matter, which will decide whether or not the regional councils or the basque territories have their own legislative capacity. since the commission always considers any distortion in tax rates to be state aid, let us say that the commission is against any non-state body having the ability to set its own tax rates. i therefore call on this parliament to consider this matter and to ask the commission to change its policy, since it may end up limiting the autonomy granted to many non-state territories.
thank you very much, mr. tabajdi. by the way, you will be pleased to know that i had the honour of being a member of the jury for the charlemagne youth prize. i'm telling you so you know we made the right decision.
this closes this spot.
the next item is the report by mr ford, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on economic and trade relations with the association of southeast asian nations (asean) (2007/2265 (ini)) (a6-0151/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, i am very grateful to glyn ford for his report and for the general support it expresses for the commission’s line in its free-trade agreement negotiations with asean countries. south-east asia deserves our full attention. understandably, our focus in asia is drawn again and again to china, but our partnership with asean should be no less engaged, whether we are dealing with questions of sustainable development, of society or trade. that is why asean was selected as a partner for one of our new-generation ftas in global europe. the dynamism of the asean economies is certainly an opportunity for europe. however, a lot of that opportunity is still potential rather than real. eu businesses trying to trade or invest in south-east asia still face tariff and non-tariff barriers and markets tilted against foreign service providers, especially in public procurement markets. the same is true for foreign direct investment in general. they also find that their intellectual property rights are still too poorly protected, and the general transparency of some markets is fairly low. this is the strongest possible argument for a free-trade agreement that is deep rather than quick and light. i do not believe in ftas as quick, political fixes. the global europe trade strategy is about new trading opportunities, new exports and new jobs. this negotiation was launched on the basis of evidence that we could achieve those things if we were willing to be ambitious. we are right to reject the idea of an fta covering certain tariffs only. i could not agree more with this report’s call for ambition, therefore, in this negotiation. we have deliberately chosen to base an approach on region-to-region negotiations. i think that was the right choice. i believe that bilateral agreements can act as building blocks for the multilateral system, where they encourage regional integration and the growth of regional markets. i think that we can see this negotiation as a contribution to the asean blueprint for an economic community. however, as this report rightly points out, negotiating such an ambitious agenda on a region-to-region basis is not the easiest, nor the fastest, route. every time an asean member country cannot deliver on a specific issue, we are faced with the lowest common denominator outcome. that is not fair for the others. we are also faced with problems of resources, because the capabilities of the asean states are stretched by the wide number of ftas they are currently negotiating. as a result, it is hard to see the timeframe for a full region-to-region agreement as less than three to four years, and it is difficult to see us achieving a consistent high level of ambition. at the same time, of course, our major competitors are cementing their links with individual countries in the region, one after another. japan, australia and the usa are all active. i note the paragraph in the report referring to the option of going bilateral, should the regional approach prove difficult. i do not want to give up the regional approach at this stage, but we are in the process of introducing some flexibility in this regional framework – a dose of variable geometry that takes into account the different levels of development within asean and that could allow us to go faster with individual asean countries. this would be economically sound and can pave the way for others to join later. in fact, our negotiating guidelines provide for a conclusion with fewer than 10 members as the ldcs within asean – laos, cambodia and burma/myanmar – are not required to take on commitments in the fta but will be following the negotiating process. laos and cambodia are currently working on wto accession questions and, in any event, they benefit already from wide-ranging preferential access to the eu market via the everything-but-arms scheme. but they have a logical place, in my view, in the long-term agreement. on burma, the report reflects the position of the eu that, although part of asean, we are not negotiating fta commitments as such with burma. a final point on sustainable development. we hope to include environmental and social aspects in our negotiations with asean, and we will do that in a cooperative spirit. in addition we have contracted an external consultant to conduct a sustainable impact assessment to analyse the likely impact of the envisaged agreement on various issues, including environmental and social concerns. this study should accompany the negotiating process during the next 18 months. last week we also invited civil society to contribute to our reflections regarding our three asean fta negotiations. we have not noted any real disagreements that they might have with us. by building these concerns into the agreements from the start, we can ensure that problems are addressed early, if not before they arise. i look forward to working with parliament as we go forward in these negotiations. it goes without saying that i will keep the inta committee updated on progress. i am very grateful for this report. it is of the standard i have come to expect from the inta committee and to depend on in its understanding and judgements of complex trade policy issues.
the committee on foreign affairs and security has adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, thanks to the nuremberg action plan and the first eu-asean summit last year, relations have been revived. for example, a free trade agreement and bilateral association and cooperation agreements are being negotiated, albeit slowly, as we have been told. in the committee on foreign affairs we have supported this intensification of relations, also in the economic and trade spheres. asean is a regional integration process that we encourage, and it is becoming increasingly relevant. it brings together more than 500 million people in ten countries, very heterogeneous indeed, as mr ford has said, and generally with great potential for growth. the european union is asean's second largest buyer. we must step up our sales and also the investments of our companies. and the free trade agreement is a good instrument. other countries inside and outside the continent want something similar, as the commissioner has said. the agreement must be very broad and not be limited to purely commercial matters. it must also be accompanied by bilateral association and cooperation agreements which include the issue of respect for human rights. these bilateral agreements can only be concluded, of course, with asean countries which meet the necessary political and economic conditions. and of course not all countries do, especially burma/myanmar, whose government is subject to restrictive measures by the council supported by this parliament. as long as the political circumstances there do not change, it is clear that there can be no bilateral agreement and that burma cannot be a party to the free trade agreement. last april this parliament reiterated its rejection of the political situation and called for the release of political prisoners. i should like to take this opportunity to express my condolences to the many victims of the cyclone in burma. i take as my own the words spoken by the president of parliament this afternoon. ladies and gentlemen, i conclude. the european union must continue to make progress in its relations with asean. we offer a stronger political partnership, close economic relations of mutual benefit and cooperation in many fields. we certainly support the step taken in 2007 in the integration process, the so-called 'asean charter'. we want the commitments in this charter on human rights and democracy to be put into practice, especially in burma and also in other countries in the region. on this basis, our relations would be strengthened. thank you very much.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr ford, on his good work and on the final result of his report, which with the contributions of our inta committee and the other committees has turned out to be a very balanced report. it emphasizes, and i want to summarize it, firstly, the great opportunity for deepening economic and trade relations in this area of potential economic and demographic growth and, on the other hand, i also want to say, it takes account of the enormous disparities between the asean member states. i would like to stress the importance of opening up the services sector. importance for both sides: crucial for the union but also for asean, both of which are called upon to demand more efficient, higher quality and better priced services, thus taking advantage of the competitive advantages and experience of the european union. as regards industry, we have stressed in our amendments, which have been incorporated into the report, the twofold need to comply with minimum quality and hygiene and sanitation requirements. it is a matter of urgency for our european industry and it must be a matter of urgency for them too, in order to curb unfair competition. and on the other hand, compliance with international conventions on social, labour and environmental matters, and in particular, we stress, the fight against child labour. we have drawn attention to the sensitive fish processing industry because it is the source of both problems. that is why, frankly, we do not understand the socialist amendments nos 11 and 12, which dilute and reduce what has already been approved by the inta committee, by deleting from the current paragraphs 16 and 17 the specific mention of the tuna sector, which is the one really affected, the unfair competition that is produced and the report of the european parliament itself on this industry, which was supported, and is supported, by the european commission itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in short, i believe that if this is done, we will achieve that the existing rules are maintained, that they are more complete and better than those they are trying to introduce.
mr president, first of all, in view of the tragedy that is happening in burma as a result of the cyclone, i would like to express my sorrow for the victims and call on the authorities to allow international aid to enter and to initiate a credible process of democratization that will end the isolation of the country and open up new prospects for its people. asean is a region with great economic potential and a population similar to that of the european union. it comprises 10 very different countries, but this diversity, while making the negotiations for a free trade agreement more complex, should not prevent the achievement of instruments which provide mutual benefits and complete the multilateral system of the world trade organisation, including in the perspective of a satisfactory conclusion of the doha development agenda, which both sides consider a priority. the least developed countries in the region must be able to retain their preferences and even have the possibility of being included in the agreement in the future. economic and trade relations are part of a broader strategy to strengthen overall relations between the two regions. it is necessary to make further progress in political and security cooperation. in particular, the fight against terrorism and crisis and disaster management were emphasised. also, foster collaboration in the energy sector, r&d, environment, climate change and sustainable development, as well as in the socio-cultural field and development cooperation. cooperation in the field of public health is particularly important because it must help to ensure the hygienic and sanitary conditions for foodstuffs which are necessary for their consumption and for the development of trade. in this process, the involvement and support of civil society is crucial. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr ford, on a report which recalls that human rights and democracy are fundamental values of the european union and calls for them to be part of the negotiations and included in the partnership and cooperation agreements which must accompany trade agreements. since these will be a major breakthrough in eu-asean relations, we hope that the negotiations can be brought to a successful conclusion.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the following is the report by ioannis gklavakis, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1782/2003 establishing common rules for direct support schemes under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers, as regards the cotton support scheme (com (2007) 0701 c6-0447/2007 2007/0242 cns) (a6-0166/2008).
it is surprising that the european commission's response to the court of justice's judgment was a new proposal to amend the cotton aid scheme, which is virtually identical to the previous one, except for the linking of the aid to the cotton harvest. we therefore welcome the excellent report drawn up by mr gklavakis, which has put the finger on the main problems affecting the production and processing sector. firstly, the commission's proposal to maintain 35% coupled aid is, as has been shown in recent years by the reduction in production in a country like spain, absolutely inadequate; therefore, the solution proposed by the report of leaving the ceiling to subsidiarity seems to us the most appropriate. mr gklavakis has given some figures, and i will tell you, commissioner, that andalusia, which is the main producing region in my country, has lost 65% of its production in the last three marketing years. i am also sorry to say that, contrary to what you have said, madam commissioner, i find amendment no 17, which i myself tabled and which has been included in the report, very positive, since it provides that aid to producers may be increased when the area under cultivation is below the basic production areas, which i do understand will be to the benefit of the sector, maintaining financial neutrality and, moreover, the full use of resources, in addition to naturally giving the sector a great deal of flexibility. finally, madam commissioner, i would like to stress, in relation to the motor industry, which i believe was the big one forgotten in the 2004 reform and whose restructuring is an indisputable fact, that it is essential to create a restructuring fund, as already mentioned in mr gklavakis' report. i do think that amendment no 39, which we have tabled on behalf of the group, would help, through article 69, to give more funding to this processing industry. finally, mr president, i wish to express my rejection of the agreement reached this week by the special committee on agriculture, because i believe that it still does not adequately address the problems of the sector and, above all, the problems of the de-boning industry; i have to tell you that i have just received a note from the spanish de-boning industry stating that with this proposal, if the council does not amend it, twenty of the twenty-seven de-boning industries will cease their activity. i hope the council will change all this and i thank the commissioner for being here.
on behalf of the pse group. i would also like to add my voice to the rapporteur's congratulations, which i believe are well deserved, and to thank him for his availability and cooperation at all times, especially when he meets with all the producers in my region, andalusia, as he has done. i would remind you that we are facing a new reform of the cotton sector, because my country, spain, and especially my region, andalusia, have brought the previous reform before the court of justice, and i would remind you that this is the first time that a reform of the commission has been set back. the surprising thing, as has already been said, is that in this situation the commission, inexplicably, is putting forward a proposal similar to the previous one, when, of course, what has not changed is the position of spain. spanish cotton growers want to 'we want to' continue growing cotton. the serious damage to my region has already been mentioned. to do that we need a reform, different from the previous one, which will allow us to continue to cultivate. i therefore believe that the gklavakis report is timely and is a solution that must be taken into account. the report proposes forks in the level of coupling in the broadest aid and greater subsidiarity for the member states. i think the rapporteur has understood the different situation of the sector in greece and spain. i therefore believe that the solution proposed in the gklavakis report can allow cultivation in the two main producing countries. it is equally clear that a plan for the restructuring of industry is needed. the commission did not take this into account the other time, as this parliament requested. the industry is thinking about compensation for the damage caused, which is quantifiable and which would be good to take into account. finally, it would be important to support the amendment by the socialist group calling for a transitional period to enable us to adapt to the new situation. it is not a question of maintaining the present situation, which is unsustainable. i remind you this is not a cmb. it is necessary to reach a compromise that will allow cotton to continue to be produced in the european union. although we do not yet have codecision, i hope that the work done and the opinion of this parliament will be taken into account on this occasion. otherwise, and in the light of the reports which are coming to us from the council, spain does not rule out requesting a review of the judgment if parliament's opinion is not taken into account.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think even the commissioners should start protesting. i would encourage mr borg and mrs fischer boel to protest too, so that these debates are held at more reasonable times, not only for our convenience, but also because they reach the public and the interested parties much more easily. but we are talking tonight about deep-sea species, and i would like to remind you that european fleets began their activities on these stocks in the 1990s, a time which coincided with the decline of the cod species, especially with the disappearance of cod, and that the commission communication to which my report refers seeks to analyse the effectiveness of the regulation from two points of view: that of its adequacy and that of its application. the truth is, and i say this in my report, that the initial allocation of quotas to the member states was made, and even increased, before sufficient biological information was available, which led to successive allocations based on data which were not entirely reliable; therefore, the quotas allocated to some member states were not exhausted, while those of others were scarce in the first months of the year. the truth is also that the lack of knowledge of the geographical structure of these species and the absence of reliable scientific data has led to tacs and quotas being set for very large management areas and, moreover, to be too restrictive, even beyond what is stipulated for species subject to recovery plans. the truth is also, and we must admit it, that the classification leaves much to be desired, because all deep-sea species living below 400 metres are considered, with a wide range of species mixed in that have no common biological, zonal or morphological elements. i would say to the commission that it certainly seems necessary to differentiate more clearly between the species in need of protection - which there are - and many of those other species which are alternatives to the cod and for which long-term fleet objectives should be set. the commission has already been forced to remove species from the list and to recognise that they are nothing but by-catches in shallow-water fisheries and, as an example, on a proposal from the united kingdom, the brown trout was de-listed as a deep-sea species and the quota for redfish is not counted when fishing with pelagic trawls. i think it is necessary and urgent for the commission to eliminate differences in treatment between species which are not fully justified, and i would also like to point out here that progress has been made in these fisheries and that the community fleet is already applying many measures which, however, are not applied by other non-european fleets operating in the same areas. our fleet has restricted effort, both through the reduction of tacs and through capacity limitation and the creation of protected areas. there are other problems with these species, such as the suitability of the tac and quota system to manage these stocks, which is very difficult because these are mixed fisheries. another issue seems to be, and is, the need to tackle the problem of waste by managing it better. another problem that needs to be corrected is the management of fishing effort, because the commission made the mistake of including in the definition of vessels requiring special permits all those who have a permit on the high seas, which caused quite a bit of confusion. finally, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think i shall listen to all of you, to the commission as well, and then i shall conclude.
mr president, i too believe that there are ample reasons to support the amendments to this report, and the report is also very valuable. as regards the prohibition of fishing at depths of more than 1,000 metres, the committee on fisheries has already made this very clear in another report which is much more directly concerned with vulnerable marine ecosystems than this one, in which a large majority refused to link depth with sensitive ecosystems. vulnerable habitats must be protected wherever they are, whether they are at a depth of 1,000 metres, 600 metres or 200 metres, and not depending on whether they fall on one side or the other of an artificial line drawn in some office in brussels. this is also the doctrine of the fao, which in its preparatory work for the guidelines for the protection of vulnerable ecosystems has already ruled out using depth as a criterion, precisely because it considers it arbitrary, lacking a scientific basis and more capricious than anything else, since, as i said, if corals or seamounts at shallower depths were not protected, it would simply wipe fisheries off the map that have been carried out for a long time without the greatest problem, such as, for example, the sablefish fisheries in the azores or the black hake fisheries in the nafo regulated area. this, as two examples only. on the other hand, if we support the amendments, we will bring greater consistency to the legislative process, since we are now in the middle of preparing the future legislation on discards applicable to all community fleets. i therefore believe that this is not the time to mortgage certain fleets with rules on discards which, in the end, may result in inconsistencies with the general rules, which goes against the practice of better lawmaking for the benefit of those governed.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank all the honourable members for their comments and suggestions, which we will certainly take into account as we undertake the review of our legislation next year. may i now turn to some specific comments. first of all, it is extremely difficult to make and provide a definition of deep-sea fish. i have, however, taken note of the remarks made in this regard. we need to learn also by experience and by using the data on these deep sea species, which we have only relatively recently begun to collect. in the mean time, we need to adopt a precautionary approach, given the poor quality of information on these species. the data collection regulation will certainly help to correct this situation. i agree that these species are much more vulnerable, and so we need to be extremely careful and cautious in the management of this fishery. on discards: as i have had occasion to say in this house before, this is an issue that we take seriously, and progressively we aim to cover all fisheries for the required reduction on discards. on the two amendments, the commission intends to agree with amendment 2, which aims at reducing the level of discards rather than introducing a complete ban across the board from the very outset. on the first amendment, the commission is of the view that the original text is more protective of the fishing activities and sensitive habitats which, in particular, foresees that no fishing can take place in areas beyond the 1 000-metre depth. however, this limit will be reviewed and, if appropriate, revised in two years’ time.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to stress the urgent need for more and better information on these species, particularly those listed in annex 2, and for more human and financial resources for research. i would remind you that we held a hearing on this matter in our committee and that the experts insisted on the need for the international council for the exploration of the sea to identify for each species the stocks that can be exploited in a sustainable way and called for more scientific rigor in the sampling plans and for more concise data. as regards closed areas or coastal areas, for which reliable data are not available, the experts advised redefining and reducing them, since the closure of areas that could be exploited would in practice lead to more illegal fishing and more impunity, given the lack of fishing interest of the parties, which would also exacerbate the lack of data for the assessment of resources. i would remind mr stevenson that the wording of amendments nos 2 and 3 corresponds exactly to what our committee adopted following mr schlyter's report on a policy to reduce by-catches and eliminate discards in european fisheries - not one more word, not one more comma. the word "ban" frightens me. the 'ban' can be confusing and can also be discouraging and can certainly do a lot of harm to fishermen who are doing their job as best they can and know how. the best thing is to abolish the ban and gradually introduce it, as the commission proposed, and i think that was the right word, if i am not mistaken. so i would ask you, please, tomorrow at the vote, to support the amendments. thank you, sir.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i am really glad to attend this plenary session where your discussion on the european transparency initiative will come to a conclusion. i have been following your debates and have participated in your debates in different committees. i am convinced that the report as it stands is a real step forward to improving transparency in the european decision-making process. the commission welcomes the positive reaction of the european parliament to its suggestion to consider an interinstitutional approach for a register and a code of conduct for interest representatives, who think that such a one-stop shop for registration would best serve the purpose of enhancing transparency, while avoiding an unnecessary administrative burden. i think that your report is an excellent starting point for discussions in the future interinstitutional working group that you suggest. i would like to underline one point. the european commission is convinced that the activities of interest representatives are legitimate and offer valuable input in the decision-making process, but things have to happen in a transparent manner. this is why the european transparency initiative aims at opening what is too often perceived as a black box. citizens, stakeholders, decision-makers and the public at large can then form their own views of what is going on in brussels. when i look at what information parliament and the commission expect registrants to disclose, i observe that, here again, we largely agree. the commission considers that it is important to know who the interest representatives are, what interests they represent and against what financial background. it goes without saying that non-respect of the rules of the code of conduct must be followed by sanctions. sanctions would mean suspension or even withdrawal from the register. the commission announced that it would launch its european transparency initiative register in spring 2008. i can assure you that we expect to meet this deadline. having recently talked to the services, i expect the register to open in six weeks’ time. we have also decided that the register is a pilot project and that we shall review it after one year, which means in early summer 2009. the european commission is ready for discussions with parliament and the council of ministers, as well as the two consultative committees, in working towards the development of a shared system.
opinion of the committee on budgetary control. - first of all, mr president, it is a pity that the finnish foreign minister, alexander stubb, who has done so much for the committee on budgetary control and for this report, is not here. i represent the views of the committee on budgetary control, and i take advantage of the last words of vice-president kallas to point out once again that the role of members of the european parliament is to be in as close contact as possible with all citizens - with interest groups and non-interest groups - and that this parliament must therefore have its own rules. my office is open to anyone who wants to have coffee with me, anyone who wants to take me for a walk. i can't ask for a special registration, and if someone doesn't have a registration i don't receive it in my party, union of the navarrese people. you, sign in. no, sir, it is one thing to have a public function and another to have a political function in this parliament. we are therefore well advised to have two ways of regulating transparency. i was rapporteur for transparency, that great project that commissioner kallas has brought here. transparency does not have to prevent our contact with life, with interest groups or non-interest groups. thank you, sir. i'm sure commissioner kallas will understand that.
on behalf of the pse group. i would like to begin by saying that i, on behalf of the socialist group, would like to support the report which we are going to debate this morning and which we will very likely adopt in the house afterwards. i think it's a big step towards transparency and control in a matter that is surrounded, without a doubt, by a lot of mythology. lobbyists are not good or bad by definition; it depends on how they act and how they are controlled. i mean, yes, we socialists have been in the forefront from the very beginning, in favour of strengthening transparency and control and, therefore, democracy with regard to lobbies. and, mr turmes, you seem to have a certain attachment to the socialist group. look at other groups. i wonder whether the committee on the environment, in its report, has decided to criticise the socialist group. because you were speaking on behalf of the environment committee. i would ask you, please, to explain your views on other groups when speaking on your own behalf and not when speaking on behalf of a committee. we do indeed think that the definition of lobbyists in the report is correct, although we would like to see a greater differentiation. private profit-making companies are certainly not the same as non-governmental organizations or trade union federations. but the footprint is legislative. the common and mandatory registration and code of conduct, the corresponding sanctions or financial opening up are key issues that are correctly included in this report. i would like to draw your attention once again, mr turmes, to the fact that you insist that the socialists are against financial openness, when what some of your group's amendments do is set limits to that financial openness, and we do not want limits to that financial openness. we also want it to come into force before the 2009 european elections and for the working group to be set up to complete its deliberations before the end of 2008. do you know, for example, that the socialist group is going to support two of your amendments on these matters? he probably doesn't know. mythology and reality are mixed up on this issue, but we socialists will not allow ourselves, having been at the forefront of the struggle for transparency and control, to be introduced into a false myth that we have a hidden agenda. we have an open agenda, which is that of the citizens, the transparency of the european union.
mr president, when we talk about transparency we cannot talk in the abstract. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. this is possible. just as you know who attends a committee, who attends a plenary session through parliament's website, our voters should know which lobbyists spend hundreds of hours in our meetings. we want transparency, but we want it to be real. we want to know, after the vote on each report, which lobbies have tabled amendments, word for word, amendment for amendment: amendments that are shaping our future. thank you, sir.
member of the commission. - i would first like to apologise to my colleague, mr figeel, who is unable to attend today's plenary session because of a long-planned working visit to egypt. i gladly accepted the offer to represent him, partly because many of the areas in which i am competent are closely linked to sport. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent report he has produced with his colleagues in parliament over the last six months. i am convinced that the report is a balanced document and addresses all the relevant issues. thank you for the support of the european parliament for the white paper on sport and for the high level of cooperation with the european commission. as the european parliament has stressed, it is important to recall the principle of the applicability of community law in the field of sport in europe, while respecting the specificities of the field. the european commission will therefore remain active in the field of sport and will continue to apply community law, including competition rules. the white paper and its annexes are useful tools both for sports organisations and for member states in the concrete application of the acquis communautaire in competition decisions and in ecj judgments. on the specific nature of sport, the european commission will lead and promote an open dialogue with sport organisations, member states and the european parliament in the framework of the structured dialogue on sport. this dialogue will be conducted in such a way that issues related to the specificities of the sport are specifically addressed. the european commission has no general objections to the amendments to be discussed at this plenary session, especially if the aim is to ensure the proper and balanced participation of representative structures in the control of sport. however, we cannot accept the unconditional obligation of young players to sign their first professional contract with the club that trained them, because this is contrary to the fundamental freedom of movement of workers. the implementation of the white paper, as you know, is proceeding as planned. of the 53 actions in the pierre de coubertin action plan, 26 are already being implemented, e.g. three studies will be launched this year (results in 2009) on the following topics: sport financing, player agents and sport volunteering. last november, a high-level conference on violence in sport was held under the chairmanship of my colleagues, commissioners frattini and figeel, identifying concrete means of improving the fight against this phenomenon. the results of the measurement of the impact of sport on the economy can be considered a significant achievement. as regards the issue of 'trained players', the european commission has recently received the results of an independent evaluation analysing uefa's rules. the european commission is currently assessing the compatibility of these rules with community law. new funding opportunities for sport and physical activity have also been opened up in various eu programmes, in particular the lifelong learning programmes 'youth in action' and 'europe for citizens'. we hope that the treaty of lisbon will enter into force soon and we are very pleased to see the support of the ep for preparatory actions in the field of sport, which will contribute to the implementation of the new eu competences in this area. let me thank you once again for your contribution, your support and your excellent cooperation in this important, sensitive and very popular area.
opinion of the committee on regional development - mr president, i am convinced that the further development of the rules of article 149 of the treaty will be of positive benefit to sport in the european union. but, from a territorial or, in other words, local point of view, i believe that the european commission, in exercising its legislative initiative, must act with caution in the face of the different local realities and the differences between sports disciplines. their contributions must be of a general nature, responding to an overall european interest and not to an interventionist ambition, and must therefore respect the principle of subsidiarity. that is the view of the committee on regional development, and i therefore welcome the amendments tabled by various groups in this connection, and i hope that this morning the house will be able to ratify them by a positive vote.
in writing. the ppe group voted against and categorically rejects the paragraph in the cappato report which deals with the so-called jakarta principles, which have only been signed and applied by a handful of countries and whose content is hardly taken into account by the international community. the same applies to the broad concept of 'sexual and reproductive health', a black box in which some people try to hide and introduce notions that everything is fine and that we cannot subscribe to.
mr president, thank you very much for your words at the beginning of this sitting in favour of the family of the murdered civil guard, in favour of the spanish armed forces and, of course, in favour of the spanish people. thank you, mr president. i believe that the unity of all of us against terrorism is the only way to defeat eta and defeat the terrorists. i believe that the unity of all european democrats must be demonstrated by supporting the governments of spain and france in this common task, and the adventures of the recent past with absurd divisions are not worth it. let us all stand together against terrorism.
on behalf of the pse group. the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the i believe that in a few years' time this session of the european parliament will be remembered as one which has set an important precedent in the development of european union law. the european union does not have any powers in criminal law. this is a matter for the state. as the rapporteur has pointed out, the two judgments of the court of justice have opened the way to a certain community competence in criminal matters, but it is a limited competence. mr jørgensen said that this is not a question of harmonisation but of legislative approximation, and in this respect i believe that parliament, through its rapporteur mr nassauer, the council and the commission, the slovenian presidency and commissioner barrot, have all contributed to reaching an agreement which, at this stage, i believe is acceptable to all. as i said before, we are not talking about legislative approximation, but about harmonization. we are going to harmonize the penalties, which is the principle of criminal law and, as mr nassauer has said, with legal precision, the criminal classification cannot be general or arbitrary. we respect the principle of proportionality, by eliminating the minimum sanctions, and we establish the principle of the rule of law. you can't condemn behavior that's not punishable. i believe that the commission's statement, particularly the statement on negligence and the timing of liability, will help us to make further progress in this area. for now, we can't go any further. i believe that we can only go further with the amendment of the substantive law of the european union, with the new constitutional rules; but this parliament, together with the council and the commission, is doing everything possible to establish the law of environmental protection with criminal rules, in accordance with the old council of europe convention, which had provided for the establishment of criminal liability for infringement of environmental rules. thank you very much.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, thank you very much, madam commissioner, for being here. i had been with the president of my region, i had a very high opinion of you and today i confirm it. i speak for myself and for the alternative rapporteur of my group, mrs rosa miguélez, in support of mr berlato, because, very briefly, it seems to us to be the most rational position. mr berlato's report deals exclusively with the community tobacco fund, the community fund for the fight against tobacco. he's asking for more time and more money for this fight. so even those members who are against tobacco premiums should vote in favour of this report, because it aims to extend the fight against tobacco in time and space. however, the word tobacco attracts so many passions that here in this parliament there are many people who confuse everything. they are confusing the community tobacco fund with community premiums and they say that they are asking for the premiums to continue. it's not true, man. the fund is being discussed until 2013. they confuse production and consumption. europe's problem is not production. very little tobacco is produced in europe. the problem in europe is the consumption of tobacco from outside europe. they confuse tobacco with smoking. it's like confusing alcohol with alcoholism. it is not the same a plant, which is an agricultural plant, which can have many uses, even medicinal, than a disease like smoking. if we want to eradicate tobacco consumption, we should attack the import, the manufacture, the advertising and the whole economic game that surrounds tobacco much more than the poor workers in my country, who bring in only 5% of the tobacco smoked in europe. and finally, commissioner, tobacco is not being financed per se, it is being financed because it creates a lot of jobs. and not just among tobacco growers, but in all counties. even many tobacco growers want to quit because they will earn more without working. but our regions are going to sink, thousands of jobs for women, for immigrants, are going to be lost, as has already happened in other parts of europe. all they ask is for time, time to do a reordering of their culture. commissioner, thank you very much for your patience and i hope you will lend a hand, not to mr berlato, but to the workers who are looking to this house hoping that there will not be so much double standards and that there will not be people who confuse their wishes with reality and their interests with the interests of the humblest people.
madam president, aid to the tobacco sector will be cut by 50% in 2010 as a result of the latest reform. i believe that this is an unprecedented measure, which places tobacco producers at a clear disadvantage compared with the rest of the community's agricultural producers. no other agricultural sector has suffered such a drastic cut, and to this must be added the reductions resulting from the modulation of direct aids which the council of ministers will agree to tomorrow. i think it is worth recalling some figures on the characteristics of this sector. at least 80% of european tobacco is produced in less-favoured regions. in extremadura, spain, where the bulk of spanish production is concentrated, the reform affects 20 000 families, with an annual turnover representing 26% of the total value of the final agricultural production of the extremadura region. in spain, tobacco is also concentrated in small farms, with a high level of female employment in both the countryside and industry. it should also be borne in mind that the european union produces only 5% of the world's tobacco and imports 70% of the tobacco it consumes, so the disappearance of community tobacco production is far from a guarantee of reducing consumption. the so-called cap health check is an ideal time to reflect on the consequences that this decision could have in regions such as extremadura, where an important social and economic fabric has developed around this crop and where there are hardly any solutions for a change in the crop. the reform of this sector is also contrary to the expectations of the community agricultural sectors as a whole, which have been given guarantees of stability at the end of the current financial perspective in 2013. the report adopted by the committee on agriculture, which favours an extension of the community tobacco fund, takes account of the interests of consumers while at the same time calling into question the validity of the decision to cut aid to farmers, because the fund is financed by a deduction from direct subsidies.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank mrs sudre again for the work on this report and for the possibility of reaching a majority consensus in the committee on regional policy on the policy for the outermost regions which we share. it must be a policy based on three fundamental pillars: reducing the accessibility deficit, improving competitiveness and strengthening regional integration. the contribution of the structural funds to the development of these regions has been very important and will continue to be so in the future in order to maintain the level of cohesion achieved and to make further progress in reducing disparities. the commission must therefore show greater flexibility. the management of the erdf fund for the outermost regions should be facilitated by a sufficiently broad definition of its scope to allow the fund to be absorbed in its entirety. another key challenge is to improve accessibility and it is therefore important that they receive differentiated treatment in the field of transport. the fourth cohesion report addresses the new challenges and we certainly hope that the commission will take into account that these challenges are also important in the outermost regions.
mr president, some of the speeches this afternoon do not seem to take account of the fact that there is a different reality in the outermost regions. it's not that they're poor regions. we are talking about small, isolated island territories, thousands of kilometres from the territory of the european union, with a total population of 4.5 million. the european union could leave these territories to their fate, which means condemning them to misery or forcing their inhabitants to emigrate to the territory of the european union, which would mean accepting another 4.5 million immigrants. the european commission has fortunately understood the situation in these territories and has long since prepared a special scheme. the commission is now asking us to consult it. mrs sudre has produced a valuable report in which she responds to this consultation, stressing certain points, such as the maintenance of the rup unit or very specific proposals on the maintenance of public services, the development of innovation and the bridging of the digital divide. i think that parliament should approve mrs sudre's report in the terms she has put forward.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the main virtues of the work that has been done are the basic consensus on the diagnosis of the situation and the therapies that, at national level, must be applied to achieve the employment objectives of the lisbon strategy. the union needs extraordinary economic strength to make political progress without abandoning the social model that is in its genes. the best social policy is to allow people to integrate and progress through work. in these eight guidelines we have the roadmap for the reforms to be undertaken up to 2010. more than enough to get national reform programmes off the ground. but there are very decisive elements that need to be worked on in a unique way. the first is to achieve a level of mobility that opens up job opportunities, particularly for young people. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of electrical equipment is a welcome one. the second is to modernise labour rules to move towards a gradual and flexible retirement. this would prevent the deterioration of labour incomes and situations of future poverty. and the third is to increase the language proficiency of the general population. because globalization, ladies and gentlemen, has its rules. whoever adapts wins. the others lose. if we want higher productivity, quality jobs and more competition, we need to continue the momentum of the reforms outlined in the lisbon strategy. it is true that progress has been made, but if the pending reforms are neglected, everything will fall apart. this is why the dialogue-based implementation of initiatives such as 'flexicurity' is essential.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as a european citizen of galicia, a maritime region par excellence, i am proud of the excellent work of the rapporteur, my friend willi piecyk, and i thank him and the other political groups for supporting my amendments on the increase in piracy at sea, which has sadly become more of an issue after the two recent kidnappings. it is good that our concern is reflected in the resolution, because we are facing a serious problem of international security that needs to be addressed. in the course of the last ten years 3 200 seamen have been kidnapped, 500 injured and 160 killed in such attacks. we are asking for something very simple: a mechanism to allow a warship of any community country in international waters to give aid to community vessels, whether fishing or merchant. we also call on europe to support the initiative at the united nations to extend the law of the sea. ladies and gentlemen, happy european day of the sea!
in writing. - a vote in itre did not allow me to take part in the debate, so i would like to justify my affirmative vote. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'climate change' in the definition of the term 'climate change'. because the experience gained in the processing of the previous four itcs has been of great help in giving this regulation a good shape: the commission was already aware of our concerns regarding these new instruments: in terms of financing, rules for participation, transparency, openness, conditions for their continuity, etc. for the rapporteur's good work. the proposed amendments: to put the eu at the forefront of these technologies, to ensure priority support for long-term research, to support the alignment of the rules for use and dissemination with those for participation in fp7, to strengthen the role of the scientific committee in setting scientific priorities and to avoid the regulation requiring the consortium coordinator to come from an industrial group, are issues that reinforce the commission's proposal. ict is a good tool to improve our r & d capacity, provided it is developed in accordance with the objectives for which it was created. it is our duty to see to it.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on fraudulent directory companies (e.g. european city guides) by arlene mccarthy, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (o-0078/2008 - b6-0152/2008).
the chairman of the council. - thank you, mr president, for your time. i also thank all the members who took part in this debate. let's get one thing straight first. no one in the council, neither the presidency nor any member state, is in favour of fraud continuing or even emerging in the common market represented by the european union. on the contrary, and it is in this sense that this debate is welcome and i welcome it on behalf of the presidency. secondly, the presidency has heard very well the calls, the unanimous calls for greater activity and immediate action. you can be sure we'll be passing these calls on to our partners in the council. thirdly, i am pleased that the committee on petitions has decided to draw up a special report and we look forward to that report from mr busuttil. this will be additional, this will be able to give additional impetus to the formulation of appropriate action at european level. however, let me make a few points. you mentioned, mr mccarthy, the austrian example. they certainly set a good example for others to follow. and i think, i hope, this discussion will contribute to that. but i would like to stress the fact that the commission is responsible for implementing the directives. we have already mentioned, and you also stated in your question, that this question relates to two directives. one thing is clear, the unfair commercial practices directive is clear that it does not cover this segment. the solution may lie either in redefining the concept of consumer or in extending the scope of the directive. these are all options that i believe will be on the table when these matters are decided. we are aware that this directive on unfair commercial practices is not old. it was only introduced in december and i think we will soon have to assess how it is being used. secondly, as regards the misleading advertising directive, i would like to reiterate that this directive covers this area. certainly, this kind of deception, this kind of fraud, is misleading advertising, so certain remedies are available, they are already available. however, i would like to conclude by reiterating that i have listened very carefully to the debate and that the presidency will inform the members of the council of the mood in this chamber.
the council's intervention closes this debate. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by silvia-adriana ţicău, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules concerning the conditions to be met by road haulage operators (com (2007) 263 - c6-0145/2007 - 2007/0098 (cod)) (a6-0087/2008), - the report by mathieu grosch, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for access to the market in coach and bus services (recast) (com (2007) 264 - c6-0147/2007 - 2007/0097 (cod)) (a6-0037/2008), and the report by mathieu grosch, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for access to the market in international road haulage services (com (2007) 0146 - c6-0997 (cod)) (a6-0038/2008)).
mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues silvia ţicău and mathieu grosch in particular for their patience and ability to put all the alternative rapporteurs together on proposals which are sometimes better supported and sometimes more conflicting. the truth is that parliament has taken the opportunity of the recasting of these texts on road transport to try to improve the legislation and to move towards greater openness in the case of cabotage, for reasons, in principle, of convenience, such as those we are working on in other dossiers, to promote freedom of movement and, of course, to avoid empty trips. we have therefore proposed the possibility of introducing a clause to prevent market disturbances in the event of an opening. i would like to emphasize that the main reasons should be social dumping, and for that reason we are also setting the date of 2014 for this freedom of cabotage to be fully achieved. it is worth saying that this text will also, in a certain sense, be more credible, because we have focused essentially on serious infringements, since they are the ones that can really be controlled. and we certainly reject the idea of specific and privileged bilateral cabotage between neighbours, because, as one of my colleagues has rightly said, it further fragmentates the market. as regards the text on buses, we inform you that the socialist group will ask, or rather has already asked, for the vote on this legislative text to be postponed, because we consider that if there is, as we have already been informed, an agreement between employers and the representatives of the workers and the trade unions for the revision of, say, the twelve-day rule, we must recognize - even if some of my colleagues do not want to do so - that, in a way, it opens, through the back door, a revision that has not been sufficiently explained or clarified and that, therefore, needs that guarantee of the agreement between employers and the trade unions. otherwise the citizens will not understand that we are voting tomorrow on a text which is already useless because there is an agreement outside this parliament.
mr president, i shall begin with mrs ţicău's report. this proposal is key to the modernisation of the transport profession, through the uniform application of common rules in all member states to authorise access to the profession. i welcome and applaud the commission's proposal in this respect. however, i would like to echo a question i raised at the time during the debate on this report in the committee on transport. this is the term 'honorability', which i introduced and then, for the sake of consensus, withdrew and proposed replacing it with 'ethical conditions'. i do not at all dispute this requirement; on the contrary, i agree that it should be required that the transport manager has not been the subject of serious criminal convictions or serious sanctions for committing infringements of community rules on road transport. i am now advocating a change of terminology, because we are making a profession of bad practices, when it is a key sector in the european economy, which generates wealth, creates jobs and ensures the mobility of people and goods. we should think twice before we impose on someone who is not honorable enough to practice a profession until he proves it. secondly, i would like to stress the importance of mr grosch's report in relation to the establishment of common rules for access to the freight transport market. the proposal for a regulation defines and delimits cabotage operations, putting an end to the current legal uncertainty. it allows up to three successive transport operations for an international journey of seven days. however, we must go further to lift any restrictions on cabotage and achieve greater openness of national markets. finally, i welcome the reduction in red tape that this new proposal for a regulation brings with it, with regard to the new simplified formats of the community licence, the authentic copies and the driver's certificates, which will help to reduce the delays that occur every time a road check takes place. we must make the road transport sector more efficient and more competitive.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank commissioner špidla for the clarity of his speech and the speed with which the commission has reacted, and will you allow me, madam president, to lend my voice to a former member of this house, the first spanish gypsy member of parliament elected 15 years ago, juan de dios ramírez heredia, who has sent me a letter which reads as follows: 'you are well aware of the sad events which in recent days have caused pain to hundreds of innocent gypsy families who have been victims of racist violence. the romanian union wants this debate so that no one can ignore the defence of human rights that we must make at all costs and the primacy that law must always have over political passions. we, the european gypsies, believe in europe. no one has defended europe without frontiers better than the gypsies. we therefore believe that arbitrary limits on the free movement of persons within the european territory would be a serious step backwards in the construction of the europe we so much dream of. let me conclude, madam president, by addressing commissioner špidla, who, together with vice-president frattini, presented here three years ago a plan, a road map, an itinerary for legal emigration. i think that vice-president frattini has done a good job as commissioner and i hope that he will also help to bring this situation back to italy.
vice-president of the commission. − this is always the most difficult thing: saying what happens if we do not do this or do that. we would like to present proactively the advantage, why we think that a new treaty is needed. how can we be more effective? we have tried, on the commission’s side, to designate and formulate questions and answers, our different background materials and what we have put on the internet in such a way that we argue proactively, on the offensive, as to why we need a new treaty and what problems need to be solved. that has been our starting point but we have engaged, on the commission’s side, as well in trying to explain what the price would be of not agreeing, because i think it will also influence people’s confidence and trust in whether we can really address the big problems and challenges that we see in front of us.
member of the commission. − a number of cases coming before the community courts have confirmed applicability of ec rules to the sports sector. in the walrave and donà judgments, for example, the european court of justice confirmed that regulations based on nationality which limit the mobility of sportsmen do not conform with the principle of free movement of persons. in the bosman judgment the court examined two types of restrictions which it found to be incompatible with the free movement of persons. firstly, it prohibits, on grounds of discrimination as to nationality, a uefa rule which restricted the number of foreign players from eu member states allowed to participate in national football championships. secondly, it condemned as an obstacle to the free movement of persons the fifa transfer rule requiring the payment of end-of-contract transfer fees in respect of intra-eu transfers of players who are nationals of an eu member state. the piau and meca medina cases were the first court judgments to apply ec competition rules to the sector. since then the commission has followed the methodological approach of that case-law in assessing whether a rule adopted by a sports federation or association infringes articles 81 and 82. therefore any sports rule which is capable of producing restrictive effects on competition has to be examined on a case-by-case basis in order to determine whether it pursues a legitimate objective. at the same time the commission must be satisfied that any anti-competitive effects resulting from such a rule are inherent to the pursuit of its objective and are proportionate to its achievement. the commission looked at the issue of international football transfers when it investigated the legality of fifa rules on transfer fees for players who were still under contract. that investigation was closed in 2002 after fifa committed itself to modifying its transfer rules on the basis of certain principles which aimed at facilitating transfers. in the commission’s white paper on sport, which was adopted on 11 july 2007, issues such as free movement of sportspersons were also exhaustively addressed, especially in the accompanying document entitled ‘the eu and sport: background and context’. in the same legislative package the commission adopted the pierre de coubertin action plan which advocates sport-related action to be taken at eu level and contains a number of proposals to be implemented and/or supported by the commission in numerous areas of sport. one such area concerns the free movement of persons, with the goal being to combat discrimination based on nationality in all sports. this goal shall be achieved through political dialogue, through recommendations, structured dialogue with stakeholders and, when appropriate, through infringement procedures initiated by the commission against member states. in addition, the commission applies ec competition rules to sport organisations in so far as those organisations regulate economic activities. in doing so the commission takes into account the specificity of sport.
madam president, thank you very much, commissioner, for your full and very complete answer to my question. i simply take the view, as a supplementary observation to the commissioner's statement, that the commission does not intend to adopt any legislative measures at this stage, since it considers that the existing legislation, including the treaties and the development of case law, is sufficient and that, therefore, the way forward will be through informal agreements with the federations, codes of conduct and so on. the commission does not believe that any additional measures are necessary at this stage, since it is sufficient simply to apply the existing legislation.
member of the commission. - the mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr papadimoulis, for his excellent contribution to the work on the mercury export ban regulation, and the members of the committee on the environment for their positive and constructive contribution. this regulation implements two of the actions referred to by the commission in its 2005 communication to the council and the european parliament on a community strategy on mercury. the adoption of this regulation will be a milestone in the implementation of the above strategy, since it will prohibit exports of metallic mercury from the community, which represent at least 25% of the world supply. the main objective of the proposed regulation is to restrict the global supply of mercury by prohibiting exports of metallic mercury from the european union and its safe storage. the regulation concerns mainly 12 000 tonnes of mercury which will become surplus in the coming years due to the gradual abandonment of mercury electrolytic cell technology in the chloride alkali industry. the regulation will prevent exports of surplus mercury to third countries and its diversion to illegal activities such as gold mining, which contribute significantly to the accumulation of mercury in the environment. parliament's efforts to further increase the scope and improve the wording of this legislative initiative have paid off and ensured that the regulation - in the form agreed - will become an effective means of protecting the health of our citizens and the environment. i would like to thank the institutions and all those involved in the process for the possible agreement at second reading. the european parliament has played a constructive role in the formulation of this satisfactory agreement. in some important respects, parliament insisted on going beyond the scope of the commission's original proposal. in particular, i would like to stress three points which have been at the heart of the negotiations: - the scope of the export ban. - the date of its entry into force. - the safe and cost-effective disposal of the metallic mercury. the commission understands parliament's desire to ensure ambitious targets in these fundamental areas and is able to accept the proposed changes. it is understood that the commission will monitor the proper application and compliance with all the provisions of the regulation and will also review the need for further measures. this proposal makes a significant contribution to the objective of reducing exposure to mercury and lays the groundwork for further action at international, global level. international negotiations are also under way within the framework of the united nations environment programme and the adoption of this regulation will send a strong message to the european union's efforts to tackle the problem. in addition to the amendments already agreed, nos 42 to 63, five new amendments tabled concern the use of the almadén area in spain as a priority area for the safe storage of metallic mercury. the commission is aware of the potential economic impact of the mercury mine closure on the area. a research project coordinated by the municipality of mayassa, which owns the site, is being funded with more than €2 million from the life financial instrument. the programme examines ways of safely disposing of metallic mercury and its conclusions will be useful in establishing acceptance criteria for the final disposal of mercury as provided for in amendment 56 to the proposed regulation. it is clear that the almaden area could be considered for the safe storage of mercury, provided that it meets the criteria to be set and that it has the necessary permits. the commission cannot, however, justify the proposed priority of a single region in amendments nos 37 to 41 and therefore cannot accept them. in conclusion, the european commission can accept the compromise package as agreed in the trilogue, namely amendments nos 42 to 63, and is satisfied with the agreement on the regulation at second reading. however, amendments nos 37 to 41 have not been agreed and cannot be accepted.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the spanish socialists are going to vote in solidarity and coherence with the region of almadén in spain, which is going to be seriously affected by the text we are discussing here and we will vote on it tomorrow. the region of almadén and its people, my countrymen, have lived for centuries on the mercury extracted from its mines, the most important of this metal in europe and the world. in recent years they have suffered a marked economic and social recession as mercury exploitation has been reduced for various reasons. we are currently deciding on the ban on exporting it. we have not only not opposed this whole process, but, understanding the health reasons that drove it, we have focused our efforts, on the one hand, on raising awareness among the population of the need to take on the new situation and, on the other, on articulating mechanisms so that almadén and its region could move forward by reconverting their activities on the basis of the experience and working capacity of their people and taking advantage of a privileged nature. in almadén we have been talking about the european union as a framework for solidarity. we have explained to the people that the community institutions will continue to take care of their situation, that they will be helped to carry on with the efforts they are making with the help of the spanish government, the government of castilla la mancha and the provincial council of ciudad real itself; and this commitment has been confirmed in all the statements of our parliament. on the one hand, it has always been recommended that the european union and its commission should provide resources and mechanisms to support almadén in converting its activity, so that people do not suffer from the closure of its traditional mining industry. it was also recommended that almadén should be given priority when it comes to locating the mercury storage facility provided for in the directive for all the metal that is or will be produced in europe. the logic was based both on the experience accumulated here in the handling of mercury and on the elementary fact that in almadén most of the mercury in europe is already stored with complete safety. that is something which was decided on the day and which is not altered at all by what we shall be approving tomorrow, and, without mentioning almadén by name, the consensus amendment which the parliamentary groups have reached - and which also seems to have the agreement of the council and the commission - leaves the previous commitments fully in force. although we would have preferred a more specific quote - and we will vote in favour of the amendments which contain that quote - we believe that the text which will be adopted is sufficiently committed and we will continue to promote the interpretation of it which will enable the region of almadén to consolidate a socioeconomic revival which is already under way.
mr president, commissioner, the ppe group has taken up amendments concerning almadén, the largest and oldest mine in the world, which were approved by a majority at first reading. the almadén mine has been closed since 2003. however, almadén is the main exporter of mercury to the european union and still maintains a significant economic activity linked to mercury, because it markets it through contracts signed by the company mayasa with others in the chloroalkali sector. and these contracts are valid until may 2011. almadén should be specifically mentioned in the regulation because it is the only area in the european union directly and negatively affected by the effects of the export ban and because the best technicians and experts in mercury management are concentrated there. moreover, the mine has the capacity to store all the liquid mercury in the european union, at a depth of 200 metres, in an enclave of highly waterproofed quartzite and volcanic rock, as was confirmed by the director for sustainable development and integration of the european commission's dg environment, mr mäkelä, and the slovenian minister for the environment, who visited the area in march 2007.
member of the commission. - the mr president, about a year ago the commission adopted the green paper on shipbreaking. since then, there have been several developments, notably in the international maritime organisation, where a draft convention on ship recycling is being prepared, which is expected to be adopted in may 2009. however, recent media reports have again brought to light the grim reality of shipbreaking practices in some parts of south asia. i am therefore very pleased that the european parliament is supporting the commission's initiative to improve shipbreaking practices. some 90% of all large ships withdrawn worldwide in 2007 were scrapped off the coast of south asia, mainly in india and bangladesh. many of these vessels were from the european union. we estimate that a quarter of the world fleet is flying the flags of the member states of the european union and that about 40% of all vessels are owned by companies based in the european union. the dismantling of ships on these shores is often carried out in appalling conditions, with no protection against pollution and with the lives of workers at risk. very few ships are cleared of hazardous materials before they reach the smelters. what mr blokland said earlier is very important in relation to the cleaning of the ship in the netherlands. when ships arrive at their destination, this waste is disposed of in a dangerous and environmentally harmful way. international rules and community legislation already exist to deal with this situation. however, the basel convention and the community regulation on shipments of waste are very often violated on the pretext that this is the last voyage of the vessel and are rarely respected by the countries of destination. the number of ships reaching the end of their life is increasing steadily, and the rules should therefore be adapted accordingly. the international maritime organisation's draft convention on ship recycling is making progress in this respect. it may be adopted in 2009 and we will do our best to make this convention strong and effective. however, it will not apply to warships and state vessels as well as other vessels for public use. it may also take 5 or 6 years to come into force. the convention will also be effective only if it is accompanied by measures at national and regional level. the commission has already taken action in the member states, as mr blokland said, but many others have not yet drawn up a strategy. for these reasons, it is necessary to take timely action at community level. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you again for your report and for your support for the commission and the measures proposed. the report contains interesting and useful ideas which we will consider carefully in the formulation of our strategy. in particular, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr blokland, for his efforts, and mr hammerstein and mr evans and the other honourable members of the committees on the environment, industry and transport for their contributions.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, thank you, commissioner dimas, and thank you, mr blokland, for this very relevant and very necessary report, because although the international maritime organisation has been preparing new legislation for ship scrapping for some time now, so that it is more environmentally friendly and causes fewer health problems for workers in the third world, in the south, it may take years for such legislation to be ratified and implemented at world level. in the meantime, ship scrapping may reach peak levels over the next ten years, precisely because of the new rules on the ban on single-hull vessels. there's going to be more and more ships for scrapping. the european union cannot wait for a change in international rules, it must act now, lead the change, strengthen green ship scrapping audits and create an economic fund with industry to internalize the environmental costs and also to help the southern communities, who have already suffered a lot from the environmental and health costs of this problem. in addition, a precautionary policy should be implemented through the principle of compulsory replacement of dangerous substances on board ships. because the ships that leave for their scrapping in asia are not a means of transport. no, they are hazardous waste and we are exporting that hazardous waste, which is prohibited by european legislation. it is time for responsibility and for ethical and moral action.
mr president, i would like to thank karl-heinz florenz and the whole working group for the level of scientists they have brought to work. i think this is the first time that scientists and politicians have worked together in parliament. that is a value that should not be concluded, because it is clear, and so say the scientists, that climate change is a great uncertainty that we have in front of us, that is, that science is advancing and changing its opinions as it walks, so we cannot turn science into absolute truths. what does this mean? it means that if, in diagnostics, science is constantly revising what it is discovering, and we are going behind them, we too must be flexible and adapt our solutions to the changing knowledge in diagnostics. this symmetry between increased knowledge and flexibility on our part must be important. so one of the things that worries me is the enormous self-confidence that we europeans have. doubt and uncertainty are the basis of science and success in this case. i think we have to be aware that there may be other countries, which we are criticizing, that do some good. i say this, and i insist on supporting this project, because i believe that the concept of complexity and impact must be considered; and the proof of this is what has happened to us with biofuels. we have to apply to ourselves an absolute discipline for the environmental impact, the economic impact and the feasibility of the solutions. but as this document is not about solutions, i continue to support it. now, i also say: we must apply a combined policy, and in this respect the document must take a further step in the second part, with decisions taken from above, from the states, but without forgetting that the issue of climate change has to be solved by adaptation in the territories. so we have to start opening up to a policy of high climate change awareness from above, combined with a policy from below, from industry, from sectors, from agriculture, from the territory, so that each country can make its own project adapted to the general.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the next item is the report by mrs ria oomen-ruijten, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the 2007 progress report on turkey as a candidate country (2007/2269 (ini)) (a6-0168/2008).
madam president, the oomen-ruijten report which we are going to adopt today is a serious report, balanced in its broad outlines and demanding. it takes stock of progress made, but also highlights the reforms still to be carried out. we all welcome the fact that the turkish authorities are considering 2008 as the year of reforms, because we know that the accession negotiations require them. moreover, these changes will be good in themselves for turkey. given the large majority of the turkish government in parliament, reforms must not be delayed. the adoption of the agreement would also enable the citizens of the european union to verify the solidity of turkey's commitment to membership of the union and its values, including respect for rights and freedoms. the report stresses our firm desire that events not seriously disturb the democratic political life of the country. ladies and gentlemen, reforms yes. and also commitment. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. and another very important issue for the union is immigration control. it is therefore necessary to prevent the flows of illegal immigration, which sometimes have a transit point in turkey, and to fight the mafias that profit from these flows. we must control the external borders and facilitate the return of illegal immigrants. turkey's cooperation is needed in this area and i regret that a readmission agreement has not yet been reached. ladies and gentlemen, terrorism is also a real threat in turkey and in the european union. we must intensify our cooperation to combat this scourge more effectively. and i'm going to finish. there is another broad area, such as foreign policy, in which the european union and turkey must agree more on their positions. i am referring, for example, to the mediterranean or central asia. we also have many overlapping interests in the field of energy security, one of the great challenges of our time. in short, ladies and gentlemen, turkey and the european union need each other and we must continue to work on this awareness.
madam president, violent islamic fundamentalism, which is aimed at harming the west but which also harms islam, is on the rise in the middle east and the maghreb. radical islamic fundamentalism, though not violent, is also on the rise in several countries. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. it can do so in its capacity as an officially secular country, but obviously with muslim roots and culture, which is an asset for relations between the european union and that world. that is why my group has tabled two amendments to congratulate turkey, which is co-sponsoring the alliance of civilizations with spain, a project officially sponsored by the united nations.
in writing. - as i am unable to attend and participate in the debate for health reasons, i would like to justify my vote in favour of this report, as it is an excellent, very comprehensive work, which addresses all the important issues for achieving a balanced presence of women and men in the scientific and technological fields. and it is also timely, because if the eu needs 700 000 new researchers to meet its 2010 targets, it is the right time for the commission and the member states to put in place the specific measures outlined in this report to correct this dysfunction. the training and the merits are equally divided between men and women. moreover, there are more women than men in our universities at the moment, and the results are even better for women. there is objective data on all this. and, furthermore, governments should be the first to take an interest in the increased participation of women in science and technology, as using only half the brains is neither smart nor effective. i am glad that this parliament has finally dealt with this matter in depth.
the chairman of the council. - i have a rather short answer. the issue of passports or travel documents to stateless persons residing permanently in a member state does not fall within the competence of the community. therefore, neither the european commission nor the council has the competence to propose any amendment concerning such passports or other travel documents.
mr president, the president-in-office of the council has given a very clear answer: he does not discuss such matters. perhaps i should put the question in other terms. can the council envisage eventual european union harmonisation on passports and passport identification or does it think that this is a matter which will remain permanently within the competence of the member states?
the chairman of the council. - first, on the question of the honourable member harkin. there will be changes in the conclusion of contracts with third countries and international organisations. this is the subject of article 207 of the future lisbon treaty, but it is precisely this article which lists very clearly the many areas where the member states will retain their veto, since it lists a number of matters and areas where the council will continue to act by consensus. that's the fourth paragraph of article 207. i should mention that there are a lot of these areas. these are the service sectors, the commercial aspects of intellectual property, the field of foreign direct investment, the field of cultural and audiovisual services, social, educational, health services and so on. these are all areas where, after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the principle of unanimity will continue to apply to decisions in the council, which implies the consent of each and every member state. and to mr. allister's question, i would answer as follows. as i said in my first answer to the question posed. ratification of the treaty on european union is a matter for the member states. by signing this treaty last december, the member states undertook to do everything in their power to ratify the signed text in accordance with their internal rules, constitutional and other legal provisions. the presidency has no role to play here. the presidency has done this, for example, by making slovenia, which currently holds the presidency of the european union, one of the first to do so. if there is a failure to ratify, which we hope will not happen, it would be the sole responsibility of the country where it happens. not the presidency, not the council, not anyone. thank you so much.
the chairman of the council. - my answer is a little longer because the question is asked in a rather broad way. negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on membership of the european union have therefore not yet started. the stabilisation and association agreement is currently the main framework for the european path of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia until its accession to the european union. the country's progress towards european union membership, in line with the priorities identified in the accession partnership, shall be assessed in a commission progress report. this report shall be published, as a rule, at the end of october or the beginning of november. the council looks forward to the commission's next assessment in the autumn of this year. in its conclusions of 10 december 2007, the council took note of the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and expressed its regret at the delays in the implementation of reforms. the delay is due to internal political tensions that have distracted the attention of national political institutions from the priorities of european integration. at present, some positive examples can be cited which indicate the efforts of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to address these delays. among the political criteria, the country has made progress in decentralisation, anti-corruption policy, cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, as well as in inter-ethnic relations and implementation of the ohrid agreement. following the publication of the european commission's november progress report, the state adopted the law on public prosecutors, the law on the council of public prosecutors, legislation on the committee on interethnic affairs and the missing member of the judicial council was also appointed. it has also made progress in the areas of document security, border control and migration. the council continues to encourage all political parties to deepen dialogue and cooperation, including between different ethnic groups, in order to move the country forward in the accession process. the council will also continue to encourage both sides to renew their efforts, in a constructive manner, to reach a mutually acceptable solution to the name issue through negotiations under the auspices of the united nations. this would enhance regional cooperation and contribute to good neighbourly relations. the main reforms still to be implemented by the country, in line with the recommendations of the association partnership, are: continue decentralisation under the ohrid agreement, two thirds of municipalities are already in the second stage of fiscal decentralisation, improve equal representation of minorities in public administration, with the field of internal affairs being a good example. police reform, judicial reform and the main outstanding issues from the so-called may agreement that require a wider political consensus are: the law on languages and the 2001 agreement on the settlement of the status of victims of conflict. on 18 february 2008, the council adopted a decision on the principles, priorities and conditions contained in the accession partnership with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the council updated the current partnership by identifying renewed priorities for further work on the basis of the findings of the commission's 2007 progress report.
the chairman of the council. - as is known, elections are due to be held in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on 1 june. we hope that this period will not cause a backlog in the implementation of the necessary reforms. we also hope that these reforms will continue in the run-up to and after the elections. the presidency is obviously keen to make progress in the integration of the western balkan countries, including the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, on their path towards membership of the european union. they would like to see this progress achieved as soon as possible, including by giving the country a date for the opening of accession negotiations. but this depends first and foremost on the commission itself, of course, and on the speed and quality of the reforms that still need to be carried out, which i mentioned in my reply.
the chairman of the council. − as is known, the european council in june 2007 invited the secretary-general, high representative javier solana and the european commission to present a joint document on the impact of climate change on international security. this joint report was presented to the european council in march this year. it identifies potential threats and forms of conflict that could arise in different parts of the world as a result of climate change. to name a few: disputes over the scarcity of resources, especially when access to resources is exploited for political purposes; increased migration resulting in additional pressure on transit and destination countries, which could lead to political and ethnic tensions; and likely political tensions due to changes in coastal areas, the disappearance of islands or access to new transport routes and resources. the report also contains a number of recommendations which should be supplemented by further research and then implemented in line with the european union action plans. the european council therefore invited the council to examine the joint document and to make recommendations on appropriate follow-up by december this year at the latest. these measures would, inter alia, aim at strengthening cooperation with third countries and regions in the light of climate change and international security. i would like to stress that this document does not take the european union away from the common approach to climate change that we all know. on the contrary, it highlights a new and extremely important aspect of climate change which will be inevitable in future discussions at different levels. as the honourable member will be aware, the european council at its spring 2007 meeting endorsed the european union's 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. this is intended to be the union's contribution to the global and comprehensive agreement for the period after 2012. the european council also underlined the european union's commitment to transforming europe into an energy-efficient and low-greenhouse-gas-emitting economy. it decided that, pending the conclusion of a global and comprehensive agreement for the period after 2012, the european union would seek to reduce its own greenhouse gas emissions unilaterally by at least 20% by 2020 compared to 1990. in the context of the climate and energy package, the parliament and the council are currently discussing the contribution of each member state to the achievement of the above-mentioned community objective. in addition to mitigating the effects of climate change, international climate negotiations will also focus on adaptation to change, new technologies and the provision of financial resources. in june 2007, the european commission published a green paper entitled 'adapting to climate change in europe - the possibilities for european union action'. this year, after intensive consultation with all stakeholders, it will also present its white paper on adaptation, which will provide a basis for further discussions on european union policy in this area. thank you so much.
the chairman of the council. − i can assure you that the secretary-general, high representative for the common foreign and security policy, is certainly in the same position as the council. he drew up his recommendation at the request of the council. the council welcomed this report and found no disagreement or objection with respect to other council decisions, including those in the field of climate protection and energy policy. so i do not think that there is any discrepancy between the high representative's actions and the council's decisions or ambitions.
mr president, i would like to take advantage of the council's reply to our colleague's question to suggest that, precisely in the framework of the union for the mediterranean, we should also tackle the question of climate change. one of the proposals in the communication presented by the european commission is to strengthen the horizon 2020 initiative to clean up the mediterranean region, which is both a victim and a cause of climate change, and this proposal is undoubtedly a very pragmatic way of acting. does the council not consider that this is a regional priority in the fight against climate change within the framework of the overall agenda that the european union has set itself?
member of the commission. − mr president, i very much welcome the positive and supportive reaction of parliament to the new animal health strategy. we all recognise that animal disease outbreaks can have devastating consequences: they can pose a serious risk to public health; they can damage public confidence in farming in general and in animal products in particular; they can trigger heavy economic costs – just remember that in 2001 the foot-and-mouth crisis cost over eur 13 billion in the uk alone – and animal disease outbreaks can also lead to animal welfare and environmental problems. the strategy responds to a range of challenges taking into account feedback from our extensive stakeholder consultations. the european union of today – with its 27 member states – looks very different to the embryonic community of many years ago, when our current animal health framework was taking shape. new challenges have arisen, such as avian influenza and the spread of vector-borne diseases like bluetongue, and more are likely to emerge in the years to come. trading conditions have changed greatly, with a massive increase in the volume of trade in and imports of animals and animal products. the new strategy recognises and reflects the broad social and economic impacts that animal-related threats can cause – in other words, it is not just about the control of certain communicable animal diseases. it features a strong focus on animal-health-related aspects of public health, food safety, animal welfare, agriculture, trade, sustainable development and research. the key principle of the strategy is prevention is better than cure. recent experiences have shown the value and effectiveness of a pre-emptive or preventative approach. we need to invest more in effective measures to prevent outbreaks, thus minimising the subsequent spread of diseases and hence eliminating or at least reducing their impacts. biosecurity on farms needs to be improved and financially supported; disease eradication and surveillance need to be stepped up; disease awareness and emergency preparedness need to be reinforced. there should be a stronger emphasis on vaccination and discriminatory testing. the strategy envisages a new legislative framework in the form of a general animal health law to be supplemented by implementing acts of a primarily technical nature. taking a broad holistic view, our legislation needs to be upgraded or developed in a more strategic and coherent manner: clarifying roles and responsibilities; aligning as far as possible with international standards; drawing strongly on scientific advice and the precautionary principle where appropriate. the commission is currently reflecting on the best methodology to define eu priority animal diseases in terms of their impact on human health, society and the economy. a study will be launched this year on the development of an eu harmonised responsibility and cost-sharing scheme to be considered in the context of a review of the currently available financial instruments. we must also work to stimulate innovation through research and development, through sufficiently funded public-private partnerships. finally, i should mention the seventh research framework programme, which runs parallel to new strategy. this will be important in supporting research into animal health and welfare issues. the commission will in the next few weeks finalise an action plan which will take into account the recommendations and opinions of parliament as well as those of the council and the economic and social committee. the commission would be happy to receive further input from parliament in this regard, notably in the context of the mid-term budget review of 2009. thank you once again for the interest and enthusiasm you have shown for this initiative. i look forward to meeting many of the members of parliament at the veterinary week, an event the commission is organising with your support as an early step to turn the strategy from words into action.
on behalf of the pse group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are faced, it must be said, with the most important and ambitious programme ever presented on this subject, and i congratulate you on it. but i must say that i am surprised that such ambition in the approaches is not accompanied by the necessary budgetary provision, because it is clear that the current allocation of the veterinary fund will not be sufficient to tackle the new and much needed prevention policies. commissioner, we have just received mrs fischer boel's proposal for a medical check-up of the cap and neither health nor animal welfare are among the recipients of the funds which rural development will have to rely on to meet the new challenges, contrary to what it seems, or i have been told, that its own services were expecting. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. commissioner, a budget without policy is useless, but a policy without a budget can be totally sterile. if we are to achieve the objectives we are setting ourselves, the budgetary debate should take account of the future implementation of this strategy. it is clear that the timetable, 2007-13, which is the subject of this communication, will also be very difficult to meet. and in this connection i would like to ask you if you could announce when the action plan will be ready and when you think the first regulations will be adopted. as regards the amendments, my group has tabled a small correction to paragraph 29. when the appropriate measures are not applied, problems arise independently of the system of livestock production in force in each member state. the important thing is to do things right. we are in favour of developing legislative measures to control domestic animals, but we think that funding should be reserved for farm animals. nor will we support amendment no 29 by the epp, which seeks to re-introduce a debate that is not appropriate here. it was the council, four years ago, which postponed the decision on the transport of animals until 2011 in order to reach agreement on very important matters. moreover, this is a controversial issue requiring impact studies and a sound scientific basis, so, i repeat, this amendment is totally out of place and my group will of course vote against it.
mr president, with this new animal health strategy the commission is proposing to simplify legislation by establishing a general law covering all diseases. simplification is always good, if it does not come at the expense of effectiveness. but when the commission proposes that all the sectors concerned should share veterinary expenditure and that the system of community co-financing of veterinary measures should be revised, establishing a hierarchy of diseases according to their severity, the commission gives the impression that it is more concerned with saving the community budget than with making real improvements in the eradication of animal diseases. the commission must ensure that there is border control and that the veterinary fund is properly endowed, because animal health, as has been shown in the recent past, is a real problem which causes economic damage to the states and to the farmers. and as far as the animal welfare of animals in transport is concerned, i think that what is really important is the condition of the vehicles rather than the length of the journeys. and in this respect, community legislation already imposes certain requirements for ventilation, temperature, maximum density and resting times, among other measures, which ensure adequate transport conditions, minimizing the level of stress of the animals. but in any case, if we are talking about the conditions and duration of transport, we have to take all the animals into account, not just those that are going to be slaughtered at the end of the journey, and apply the same rules to all of them. finally, i want to express my disagreement with the cloning of animals for meat. cloning is something which, at present, must remain a practice confined to the field of research and experimentation.
mr president, i do not know exactly what rule in the rules of procedure prevents us from having a dialogue. the commissioner is here and certainly deserves our respect. i think all the members present are ready for the debate. i understand and respect very much mr ouzký's preferences and priorities, but at this stage, unless the rules of procedure explicitly prevent us from having this debate, i think that out of respect for the commissioner and the colleagues here, we should be able to have this debate.
mr president, now that the paris declaration is being reviewed, we have noticed that the words 'intentions' have remained in words. although the commission is working well on implementing initiatives to ensure that aid reaches its destination, if the member states do not contribute their promised share, we cannot go on. we therefore know that we as donors and partner countries are responsible for making aid more effective, but our greatest responsibility is to ensure that aid actually contributes to managing the great challenges facing developing countries. we have to make sure that we keep our end of the bargain, so that we don't have to be ashamed of what we promised to do and aren't doing. ideally, aid has a positive effect on development processes and good governance, but if it is poorly distributed, that aid can do a lot of harm. that is why it is necessary for developing countries to take the lead in making their own policy decisions, and we donors must respect that, and give them the support and the space to do so, because often donors finance their own priorities. finally, i would like to stress the need to ensure the consistency of our own policies. all development efforts are doomed if the objectives of other policies, such as trade, monetary affairs, etc., undermine or contradict them. if we are to preach by example, we are not on the right track.
mr president, if we talk so much about efficiency, it is because we are convinced that we have a serious problem of efficiency. and the first condition for ensuring an increase in this variable is probably to provide for fixed and binding timetables for aid flows. it is very difficult to do anything effectively if you do not know with a minimum of certainty what resources will be available. this links quantity with quality and, like other colleagues, i must deplore the fall in the resources allocated by the europeans to development aid, with some notable exceptions, let me say, that of my country, spain, which is ranked first in terms of the increase in development aid, by 33% last year. we have an opportunity perhaps in accra and we should work, commissioner, to make that 20% dedicated to education, health, access to water and sanitation infrastructure a reality. i would also like to assure you of the support of the committee on development for your work of coordination between the various actors. there are few resources and they are divided, as you have said many times, among many, many agents, and the efficiency is continually decreasing in line with this dilution of effort. i would also like to point out, as the report does, the need to simplify the procedures for granting aid. everywhere we have been we have encountered the same problem: from the moment when we say that something is going to be done until that something is done, a time passes that, if any doubt, exceeds any parameter of efficiency in resource management.
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank you for your support for the major themes and trends in our policies. i would perhaps like to go back on a number of points and answer them briefly. firstly, as regards food aid and the problem of the increase in cereal prices, in particular, and the question of agricultural programmes, you should know that we have just finalised a communication on the european strategy for responding to the food crisis at the development level. you will therefore receive information on this document in a short time. secondly, i would like to correct things that are sometimes said and i cannot understand why they are being repeated. when the common agricultural policy of the european union is attacked unilaterally, and with very few arguments that can be verified, i believe that the european union is being wronged. we are spreading false information and letting our partners believe that the common agricultural policy is the cause of all their problems. that's not true! i've said it before and i'll say it again. the dismantling of the agricultural subsidy system has been under way since 1996 and the effects of our common agricultural policy cannot now be considered to be the cause of the misery of the developing countries. i am prepared to go into detail on this at another meeting because it is being repeated as a sort of anti-rhyme, a refrain, as if it were true. we're conveying things that aren't fair. europe has put a lot of order into this issue. there are still some things to be settled and i can accept that the coherence of our development policies is being called into question. but in agriculture, if there is one area where we have made significant progress, it is this. i find it a little unfair to tarnish our own image without foundation, i dare say. i have heard the proposal, i suppose it is the suggestion of a world fund, i know that mr geoffrey sachs, who is a remarkable man, is fighting a lot and campaigning for a world food fund. i'm not in favor of it. i am extremely reluctant to compare this and the other fund, which you seem to say has been the panacea took a long time before it operated in transparency and efficiency. why create a fund when there are tools such as wfp, fao and others? you know, inventing tools and instruments to address global policy deficiencies is probably not the right answer. the tools are there. they just need to be supported financially. wfp needs reform. what reform? the wfp must have a predictable budget annually and not function financially as it should now. i mentioned it in a recent interview. this is a big problem. so it is not wise to invent wrong answers to right questions. i do not think i am in favour of creating a new fund, because all this will involve a lot of bureaucracy, a lot of procedures. and to get to the procedures, i'm going to say a few words right away. as far as agriculture is concerned, you should know that we are going from 650 million euros in the ninth edf to 1 250 billion in the tenth edf. but i agree that in percentage terms, in quantitative terms, it is obviously important, but in percentage terms in the context of the edf, it is not a real increase. the positive aspect is that we are talking about four countries which had chosen agriculture as their focal sector, compared with 24 countries, i.e. about one third. so there is an evolution, an awareness, however, i remind you, because it is still important, that the principle of choosing the focus sectors is based on ownership: it is our partners who decide in which sector they want us to put our resources. it's important to remember that. the next interesting question was, "what are you going to do with the unused money from agriculture?" we are going to recover a large part of these funds and use them to deal with the question of price increases and the food crisis. i prefer to talk about a food crisis, rather than a price increase. i proposed at the last commission meeting last week - and it was very well received - that efforts should be made to channel these financial resources to enable small farmers in poor countries to have access to seeds and fertilisers, because this is a big problem for them, and today it is one of the major problems. if they are to become self-sufficient, they must necessarily have better access to these seeds and fertilisers, which would allow them to become progressively food independent. i am particularly in favour of a maximum reduction in the period during which distribution is made. i think it is much more important to give them the means to produce. we all agree, i said it in my initial presentation and i won't go back: accra is a political meeting and i ask you, i know you are all aware that this must be done, to mobilise our member states so that they respect their commitments and agree to be included in a timetable which demonstrates that their political will - i believe mr borrell alluded to this - is really real and that we will achieve what we have promised. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. i must confess that i am really helpless in this area. the procedures are there and i have to follow them. i can't do otherwise. i can make some proposals to ease them, yes. but you know very well that it will take years for that to happen. i am also planning to present - who knows - at the end of my term of office a whole series of lessons i have learned, particularly in the area of procedures, because i hear mrs martens say: 'we need more transparency'. i am prepared for all the transparency that is required, 'but we also need more efficiency'. well, i say to you, no matter how impertinent and shocking you may be: if you want even more transparency and that means even more checks, even more audits, even more consultations and all sorts of things, you will be less effective. i want to tell you. if you don't understand that, you can just kick me out, but i'm convinced of that. we have wanted transparency so much that today the commission is a giant in chains. it's gulliver in chains, that's all. i am personally prepared to speak, there is a way to make transparency effective, but finally, i beg you, stop always talking about "transparency", "control", "it must be more than this", ... okay, but in fact... you know, i'd love the opportunity to come by and plot a case. i can tell you it's not sad. i myself sometimes do not understand anything about this traceability process, and we have to take into account the inter-services, everyone is involved. it's extremely complicated. i don't want to be caricaturing, but i have to tell you that this is a real problem. so i think mr hutchinson was talking about coordination, coherence and complementarity. you're absolutely right. i believe that we could increase the effectiveness of our aid enormously if we did a better division of labour, if we were more coherent, if we were better coordinated and if we could cut down on just a few intermediate checks, which are very often totally unnecessary. i quoted the figures earlier: tanzania has to conduct 8,000 audit reports! i don't know if we can measure what this means for a country like tanzania, which is a country with a capacity for governance. at some point, surrealism reaches madness. there are limits. i have nothing against procedure, but i'm sick of it. the procedure, i'm not asking for any more. the division of labour, mr hutchinson, you did well to emphasise the diasporas. we are trying to work with them, but the procedures are preventing us from doing so. here's another example! the honourable member was asking whether there are any plans to encourage young people to go and work in developing countries. no, sir, i can't do that, the procedures don't allow me to do that. i'm told, for example, that there are certain ngos that you can't work with. indeed, with some ngos, i cannot work because the procedures do not allow me to work. our new member states can be frustrated, and rightly so, because in most cases their ngos, which are as good as the others, cannot work because they do not meet the standards that have been invented by commission procedures. so they are, in a way, largely excluded from our collaboration and contribution, and that is not fair. we're working on it, but it's gonna take a long time to get there. i also agree that we need extra. mr buzek spoke of the fight against climate change. it's obvious that if you requalify amounts in development to work on climate change, you're obviously going to mortgage everything that you've done or everything that you planned to do in conventional development. new and additional means are therefore needed to tackle climate change. i refer to the idea we had with mr borrell of launching a global loan linked to co2 emission quotas. this project is going very well. technically, it's perfectly fine. we have done this with the world bank and i shall have the opportunity to return to this subject, because it might perhaps also partly resolve the question of increased financing, because it could help the member states to meet their objectives and commitments in a way that is, let us say, less painful for them in the long term from a budgetary point of view. i am of course in agreement with mr borrell in congratulating spain first, because it is true that in a certain way it is very unfair. some countries made real efforts and made very substantial budgetary increases: in the spanish gdp scale, this is indeed an extremely important effort at the same time, others were really in free fall and therefore concealed, in a certain way, the voluntarism of some. i have to say that this is an important question that comes up every time, it's 20 percent for education, health, water, etc. the answer is, you know. first of all, i already answered. although i agree with the objective, i have nevertheless asked that we try to see what the expenditure on budgetary aid corresponds to because - we spoke of budgetary aid - it is often these sectors that are financed. but i'm trying to figure out the number, which is very difficult. secondly, i would remind you that it is our partner countries that choose the sector of focus, not us. so i cannot impose and say: it is in education that you must act. i can suggest, but i can't impose. i agree with mr mitchell when he says that this is obviously a very hard formula and that our selfishness should lead us to increase aid. that's fair enough. i often bring it up in my lectures. those who do not want to do it out of generosity, let them do it at least out of self-interest. it is obvious that on the subject you are addressing, and i am thinking in particular of africa, there is an extremely large presence of certain emerging countries, and i do not doubt the legitimacy or the merits of this. i am simply saying that europe would do well to see a little more of its own interest in being present on a continent which is the neighbouring continent and in which it can bring great added value and it can also derive added value. there, i think i've gone around the block. i have answered the two questions which were very pertinent, if i may say so, from the last speaker. i am very happy to be in the european parliament, which is certainly the place where there is the greatest dynamism and the greatest willingness to pursue all these policies for which we are deeply convinced.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
, on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i will read out the oral amendment proposed by my group, the pse group:reminds that the main objective of the cap is to ensure market stabilisation, security of supply and reasonable prices for consumers, and underlines the need for the cap after 2013 in order to ensure the sustainability of the eu's food policy while respecting the sustainability, safety and quality of agricultural products;i want to say that we expressly waive the last part of the paragraph, as the ppe group asked us to support this amendment.
mr president, i am not responsible for this report but i would like the colleagues who have been dealing with this issue to note that we are voting today on two reports, one on china and one on burma, dealing with a disaster and the different reactions to it. the report on china starts with a sentence that says that parliament ‘expresses its sincere condolences and solidarity to the people of china and to the numerous victims; expresses sorrow to all those who are suffering the consequences of the earthquake’, but, in the report on burma, there are only political considerations. (the president cut the speaker off.)
i am making an oral amendment which should be accepted or not by the house and which is to express sympathy for the people in the same terms, using exactly the same text as for china. that is the oral amendment: sympathy for the people. (applause) i would like to thank
the oral amendment would be exactly the first point which would read: 'expresses its sincere condolences and solidarity to the people of burma and to the numerous victims; expresses sorrow to all those who are suffering the consequences of the catastrophe;' (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to say that there were speakers, that we were in the chamber. it was rather mr ouzký who was not present, and the bureau and the president decided to annul it. there were prepared speakers, in addition to the commission, which was present.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on effectiveness, although i am not entirely in favour. firstly, because the member states do not keep their word, which makes all the work done by the european institutions useless. nor is there any clear discussion of the role that member states have committed themselves to play (helping partner countries implement aid) and the role they are actually playing (funding only those initiatives which are of priority for their own economies), without paying attention to the social and economic development of the (orphan) countries. secondly, because there is a demand for greater efficiency and transparency in the financing of projects. efficiency: of course it is. but if transparency means more audits, more consultations, more controls - in short, more waste of money and time in bureaucratic matters, which rather than facilitating hinder the work of many people, then transparency plays against efficiency. and i am advocating that transparency is a useful tool for achieving efficiency, and that efficiency should always prevail.
the return of hostilities in burundi is a worrying step backwards in an already fragile process. the tens of thousands of dead and thousands of newly displaced people make it clear that efforts to build peace are, at least for the time being, clearly insufficient. and the responsibilities for that must be shared. firstly, it is obvious that the return of the fnl to arms is regrettable, but it must also be pointed out that there are many complaints of human rights violations by the burundian armed forces and police. it is also clear that instability in burundi can have important and serious regional consequences, particularly in relation to its neighbours, the democratic republic of congo and rwanda. i agree that burundi is experiencing greater stability since the entry into force of a new constitution, which has been followed by general elections, but this reinforces the need to set up a peace and reconciliation commission as a confidence-building measure, which should also have the financial and logistical support of the european union. in this context, and particularly in view of the fact that the european union has chosen burundi as a pilot country for the implementation of a priority action plan to improve the speed and effectiveness of aid, i believe that the content of this resolution deserves special attention. not only by the european commission, but also, and above all, by the member states. and more specifically in two of the proposals that are being made. first, to increase the financial resources granted by the european union to burundi, especially on the occasion of the mid-term review of the 10th edf. secondly, that in the framework of the much-needed action plan, special attention be paid to programmes for better governance and management of the democratic situation, to health policies through the creation of health centres and the improvement of hospitals, to the decision of the burundian government to make primary education free of charge and to the continuing efforts to improve the country's infrastructure.
we are pleased to welcome the parliamentary delegations from armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, moldova and ukraine, as well as representatives of the democratic opposition in belarus, to the official tribune. the georgian delegation is led by the president of the parliament, mrs burjanadze. these delegations have come to brussels to take part in the conference on european neighbourhood policy which is being held in the european parliament today and tomorrow. we welcome you warmly and we are pleased to have you in this joint debate. (applause) i would like to thank
we continue the joint debate on the report by jacek saryusz-wolski on the 2006 annual report on the cfsp (a6-0189/2008) and the report by helmut kuhne on the implementation of the european security strategy and the esdp (a6-0186/2008).
mr president, mr el baradei - a personality who cannot be accused of being radical - said at the last munich conference on security policy that a 1% reduction in arms spending could solve the problem of hunger in the world. the european union's contribution to this challenge is to ask the member states to increase military spending, so that we have reached the immorality in this civilization that 2006 ended with the highest figure in the world in arms spending, more than in the midst of the cold war: 17 times more than we spend on international cooperation. i think we're going the wrong way. the militarization of security has created a more unjust, more violent world. remember, we were told that with the invasion of iraq, with this immorality, the problem of the middle east would be solved and the price of oil would be lowered. the facts are overwhelming. i think, your honours, we're going the wrong way. we must demilitarise security and recover the old values of europe, when, in the midst of the cold war, personalities like willy brandt and olaf palme proposed the goal of zero arms in foreign policy. as to the relationship of our ties to american security, it depends on the administration concerned. or have our principles and values been the same as those of the bush administration? remember the cia flights, the torture at guantanamo, the death penalty, the systematic violation of human rights around the world? no, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that we must move towards an autonomous, denuclearised security and a system which generates sufficient security to solve the fundamental problems which, in addition to terrorism, are hunger, poverty and discrimination.
mr president, cooperation between parliament and the council has improved considerably in recent years - and this is acknowledged in mr saryusz-wolski's report - thanks in particular to the establishment of flexible mechanisms and the presence of the council presidency, the high representative and the special envoys. but the report also says - and the chairman of my group has also said this - that this cooperation between parliament and the council can be improved, particularly in the area of programming. the report by mr saryusz-wolski, whom i congratulate on his work, contains a concrete initiative: the establishment of an interinstitutional agreement, starting at the beginning of next year, to establish, on the basis of the guidelines of the new treaty, criteria for cooperation which are already stable and dynamic. i would like to know, mr high representative, what your views are on this proposal in the report. secondly, i would also like to congratulate the other rapporteur, mr kuhne, on his report on the european security strategy. i think what we need here is a long-term strategy to deal with the new configuration of threats, one that can be revised as circumstances change and, in any case, every five years, coinciding with the legislative periods of our parliament. there have been some very particular interventions. i do not think we should spend more, but as long as we have three parallel satellite systems - mr von wogau mentioned this today - five telecommunications systems, 23 armoured vehicle systems, 87 different weapons programmes, we cannot continue to move forward in the direction we want. the european union has, with its 27 member states, approximately two million soldiers, ten thousand tanks, three thousand fighter planes. i think it's a force big enough to do things seriously. however, we have additional difficulties in sending a battalion into conflicts as in the case of chad, where it is not a question of making war but of preserving crisis situations and mediating conflict situations. i therefore believe, mr president, that we must put all our resources to work so that the european union, with all its capacity, does not remain irrelevant on the international scene.
i am pleased to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that a delegation from the japanese parliament has taken its seat in the official court. we give you the warmest welcome. they are taking part in the 29th european parliament-japan interparliamentary meeting, taking place in brussels and vienna from 2 to 6 june. the japanese delegation is headed by mr nakayama taro, a great friend of europe, and is made up of seven members of the house of representatives and two members of the house of foreign ministers. this interparliamentary meeting has placed an emphasis on climate change in order to push for a common approach to the implementation of the kyoto protocol and what comes next. we are very pleased with this fruitful, stable and continuous cooperation with japan, a country with which we share the basic values of democracy, respect for human rights and the principle of multilateral cooperation. so welcome to our japanese friends! (applause) i would like to thank
we continue the joint debate on the report by jacek saryusz-wolski on the 2006 annual report on the cfsp (a6-0189/2008) and the report by helmut kuhne on the implementation of the european security strategy and the esdp (a6-0186/2008).
mr president, the saryusz-wolski report, which we shall be adopting tomorrow, is a very comprehensive report covering in a balanced way virtually all the regions of the world in which the european union's foreign policy is projected. in just two minutes i shall confine myself to some of the so-called horizontal aspects which the report rightly covers. foreign policy today cannot be explained by geographical order alone. there are issues that have a global, horizontal character. these issues are also of such importance that the main actors in the union's external policy must take action on them. i am referring, first of all, to the fight against terrorism and organised crime. these are matters to which the common foreign and security policy must pay very special attention. another very important issue is that of migration flows and the fight against illegal immigration. the cooperation of the countries of origin and transit must be sought and the union's external action must be strongly involved. in short, if we want to build an area of security, freedom and justice in the european union, the external dimension is essential, as the saryusz-wolski report points out. it is a matter which cannot be left to the home ministers or the commissioner for justice alone. another priority horizontal aspect is energy security. given the high external dependence of the member states, it is necessary to move towards a common external energy policy of the union. in addition, the obvious global nature of climate change requires the union to step up its external action to achieve an effective response to this threat. i believe that it is essential to make progress on all these issues and to involve the union's foreign policy in this. these are issues which concern the citizens and they believe that the european union must contribute to promoting them effectively, since state sovereignty is shared precisely to meet the challenges that are greater than those faced by individual states, that is, global challenges. progress in these areas will therefore enable the european union to better justify its raison d'être and thus strengthen its legitimacy in the eyes of public opinion and citizens.
mr president, we are currently facing a very serious fisheries crisis in the european union as a whole, which will require a rapid response from the european institutions. i think it is essential to set up a tripartite bureau, in which the public administrations, the trade unions and the shipowners are present. to tackle the crisis once and for all, we cannot just patch things up; we must formulate a structural, comprehensive proposal that addresses the whole of the crisis in the sector. we are naturally committed to responsible fishing; we must solve the problem of the marketing of the product; we must tackle the lack of crew in the fleets, guarantee fair labour relations and get workers out of precariousness. i think it is very important at this time to support, from the european parliament, a way out of this crisis, because it also affects quality employment, and we have to rise to the occasion.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to reiterate the importance of the generalized system of preferences (gsp) for the economic and commercial development of the beneficiary countries. parliament's amendments have considerably improved the proposal for a regulation covering the period 2009-2011 and have focused on aspects that can enhance the conditions for the use of the system by these beneficiary countries, such as the provision by the european union of technical assistance, which is essential for better exploitation of the trade advantages provided by the gsp. it is also worth noting that countries can apply for inclusion in the special scheme for stimulating sustainable development, i.e. the more advantageous gsp+, and, in addition, they can do so every year. however, i think that some of the amendments adopted in the inta committee go too far. amendment no 8, which refers to the possibility for countries which are not the final recipients of exports to be able to benefit from the more favourable gsp+ and 'all but arms' schemes, could harm some countries which do indeed deserve to be included in those schemes. in general, it could create more confusion in the application of the gsp and the rules of origin. this is a question which should be left for the next revision of the rules of origin. i think it is also important, as some of my colleagues have already said, that the european commission should present studies assessing the impact of the gsp on the beneficiary countries. i think, however, that this study should focus on purely commercial aspects and not cover more areas outside the scope of this regulation. finally, i would like to stress, as the chairman of the committee, mr markov, has done, that our amendments strengthen the role of the european parliament in the application of the regulation. what is being considered here is the future role of the european parliament in trade policy once we have adopted the treaty of lisbon, as i wish.
mr president, i would first like to congratulate mr hutchinson on his report, which clearly expresses the work done by the joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) in 2007. the assembly is becoming the strongest pillar of cooperation between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific countries. i would like to stress that this is the only international assembly that regularly brings together elected representatives from different countries in order to promote north-south interdependence. the jpa has led the way in economic partnership agreements, which are instruments in the service of acp countries' development and regional integration policy and a means of their progressive inclusion in the global economy in a sustainable way. however, economic association agreements (eaa) cannot be negotiated as simple free trade agreements. my group insists that these agreements should include the possibility of renegotiating issues such as services, intellectual property and the so-called 'singapore issues': investment, competition and public markets, as well as labour and social standards and other issues relating to sustainable development.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is a real pleasure for me to join you here today to talk about the commission’s review of, and views on, the pitella report. but first let me congratulate both mr pitella and mr karas on a wonderful job and thank parliament for its interest in this issue. we share many views on this issue, and that is a good starting point. along with my dear colleague charlie mccreevy and the internal market and services dg, my services and i have put much effort into being students of retail banking and, like you, we are asking ourselves what could be improved. it would of course be stupid to say that everything is perfect, so ‘what could be better?’ is our main line of approach to this issue. in our sector inquiry the eur 1 350 billion a year card-payment-systems market gained much of our attention. that is not coffee money – eur 1 350 billion on a yearly basis. we also looked at improving credit registers, helpful and unhelpful cooperation between banks, and bank fees. in response specifically to a key point in the pittella report, i may conclude that we have many points of agreement and one point of difference. on customer mobility: the ball is now in the industry’s court. it needs to develop a code of conduct, and it may face legislation if it does not take this opportunity and this challenge. on consumer information and transparency: price comparison and product disclosure information is critical for consumers. but industry heavily contests suggestions for change so i fear that there might not be any progress. my colleague commissioner kuneva is collecting evidence on retail banking fees as part of one of her consumer market scoreboard follow-ups. she will certainly be able to assess the diversity and transparency of banking fees and the corresponding level of consumer awareness. this fact-gathering is the first step for change. on credit registers i have good news. the first meeting of the expert group on credit histories is planned in september 2008, which is not long now. experts should present their recommendations to the commission by 1 may 2009. credit intermediaries, such as mortgage brokers, are a growth industry with many vulnerable customers, so the commission’s study of them will be of great interest. the results of that study are expected to be available in october 2008. concerning cooperation between banks, the competition dg is still doing further fact-finding for our sector inquiry, so it is too early for me to make detailed comments on this matter at this stage. sepa is still new, and competition is needed for it to function fully: i particularly agree with parliament on this. but i am confident it is working as well as we could expect at this point. the area where there seems to be disagreement – as mentioned earlier – is the request to the commission to issue guidelines on multilateral interchange fees (mifs). i have to be honest with you and say that i am not convinced that creating guidelines would be the right move at this stage and, based on our experience in this matter, i shall try to explain why. the call for guidelines and ‘clarity’ from the commission – and i understand the question of the rapporteur and his team – is a predictable follow-on from our mastercard case. however, that decision – the mastercard decision – was based solely on the specific facts of that case. with only one case to base such guidelines on, we would risk making bad guidelines that undermine our efforts to help consumers (that is again something we have in common: we – parliament and the commission – want to help consumers). one case is not the basis of a magic solution. other reasons guidelines might not work are because there are payment card systems in the eu that operate with a mif, and others without a mif. decisions about a card scheme’s business model and financing mechanisms should be taken by the schemes themselves. obviously, the commission cannot prescribe specific business models. the assessment of the mif of a developed system like mastercard and the assessment of a mif which new entrants in the market may wish to apply in order to start competing are not necessarily the same. at this stage the commission has only assessed the mif in systems like visa and mastercard. in the new framework laid down by regulation (ec) no 1/2003, it is the responsibility of the parties to assess the legality of their behaviour under ec competition rules. a non-confidential version of the mastercard decision is published on our website, so we are transparent and we are clear. the commission’s assessment of the mastercard mif can be used by other payment card systems as guidance, even if the assessment in the decision relates to mastercard’s mif and not to all possible mifs. but there is a suggestion i make to assist the market as this issue develops – that is a gesture from my side. my services stand ready to further discuss with market participants and all stakeholders, and indeed they are already in close contact with the payment industry on this matter. but allow me conclude in a positive way. the commission very much welcomes parliament’s clear support for the need for measures to improve the level of efficiency and functioning of the retail banking sector, which remains fragmented along national lines. i am committed to working with you to address the issue of the mifs. i hope that we can just conclude that the future is ours.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me congratulate the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and in particular mr karas and mr schmidt, for their excellent work in producing a thorough and consistent report. i wholeheartedly welcome your broad support for our strategy on retail financial services, as well as the significant contribution you have made towards deliberations on a wide range of issues. it is not possible in the time allotted to provide our views on all of the issues covered in this extensive report. i would therefore like to focus on two issues of particular importance in the retail area, our consideration of the framework for retail investment products, and our work on bank account mobility. turning first to retail investment products. i am grateful for your support for our ongoing work to ensure that the regulatory framework for the sale of retail investment products delivers a consistently high level of investor protection. i am convinced that competition between retail investment products can deliver real benefits for consumers. however, we need to be confident that the sale of all investment products is accompanied by a high level of product disclosure and a point-of-sale discipline. only this will ensure that consumers are treated fairly and can take decisions on an informed basis. i welcome the clear position you have taken in your report on these issues. however, as you well know, i am not one to make decisions without first being fully convinced of the need for change. harmonisation or streamlining of disclosure and distribution rules would be a costly and disruptive process. there may be objective reasons why some differentiation is needed between product types or distribution channels. for these reasons, i believe it is far too early to conclude that there are deficiencies in existing investor protection regimes which call for new cross-cutting legislation. later this year i will come forward with a communication consolidating the evidence gathered in our research. we will identify areas for further work, to examine, and address clearly, evidenced shortcomings in existing regulatory protections. turning now to bank account mobility. creating a competitive and efficient market for bank accounts is a core element in our retail financial services strategy. many consumers regularly face obstacles in trying to switch from one provider to another. this situation cannot be allowed to continue and we are therefore pleased to receive your support on this point. i welcome your call for the financial services industry to work towards the aims of the green paper by self-regulation and thus reduce the need for binding legal acts. this reflects our commitment reiterated in the single market review to use, where appropriate or where they can deliver the desired outcome, self-regulatory measures rather than resort to legislation. in this context, in november last year we invited the european banking industry to develop a european code of conduct by mid-2008. this code should contain a fully-fledged domestic switching service which should be made available to customers when they switch bank. the banking industry does not need to start from scratch. rather, they should draw on existing best practices in some member states. finally, delivery of a high quality code of conduct by the banking industry will be decisive in proving the merits of self-regulation. let me be clear today. should the code fail to meet the commission’s expectations, alternatives, such as a legislative proposal, would have to be considered.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner kroes, commissioner mccreevy, ladies and gentlemen, retail banking plays an essential role in the daily lives of families and the vast majority of european businesses. it is of great economic importance, generates around 2% of community gdp, provides more than 3 million jobs and is part of the largest banking sector with gross revenues exceeding 50% of the total of the european union. to appreciate its importance, we can take into account that one of its characteristic services - housing loans - is the main financial risk for european citizens, with a surplus of almost 50% of the european union's gdp, and that the volume of investment funds in the member states is between 4 and 24% of the domestic economy. despite progress in regulating the sector and the improvement achieved by the introduction of the euro, the integration of community financial services markets and the promotion of competition in the sector do not appear to have reached their full potential. only 1% of consumers in the european union purchase crossborder financial services; there are large price variations between entities; there is limited choice; structural barriers remain which make it difficult to provide and operate services between different countries. the levels of profitability of retail banking vary widely, with the nordic countries, spain and ireland above average. all these issues are dealt with in a reasonably balanced way in these reports. i congratulate the rapporteurs, mr pittella and mr karas, and express my satisfaction at the final incorporation of aspects such as the recognition of the role of retail banking in the proper transmission of monetary policy conditions in the market, the value that the plurality and diversity of business models with banks, cooperatives and savings banks brings to european retail banking, the existence of a pro-competitive cooperation area between independent entities, the need for an appropriate framework for financial intermediaries and other comparability of financial products. improving the functioning of this bank will bring more efficiency, contribute to the development of the endogenous potential in all european regions and facilitate access to financial services as well as greater satisfaction in the coverage conditions of our citizens.
opinion of the committee on international trade and development - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is taking place at a time of the most serious crisis in the community fisheries sector in recorded history. there are a number of reasons why this sector does not cover costs and why it is not profitable to go fishing today. fish imports and the entry of illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing into the european union are among these causes. we therefore support the proposal and the report, but they are not enough. i would like to take this opportunity to raise my voice in the european parliament to ask the commission and the council to do something urgently, to prevent this sector from dying, otherwise it will go bankrupt. i call on the commissioner and the council to prepare and adopt a joint emergency programme of action, which also includes measures for the medium and long term. france is leading this fight and the forthcoming french presidency is a golden opportunity to carry it out. the commission must exercise its power of initiative more actively - aid, compensation, restructuring, innovation - to alleviate the costs the sector is suffering and to curb unfair competition in imports. time is of the essence. we wanted the committee on international trade to be present in this debate, because it is of little use to ban iuu fishing if the european union then opens its markets to it. is it too much to ask that only legal fish be sold in the european union? we need more controls, more traceability, more and better labelling, in short more guarantees for what is coming into the european union. it is not just the european union that must do this, but the world at large, multilaterally and bilaterally. the association agreements should also be an instrument for this, with the appropriate technical assistance and training, so as not to raise new barriers to trade, but effective measures for all parties involved. the future of an entire economic sector is at stake, one which is highly concentrated in the european union in regions which are very dependent on it and therefore have enormous social repercussions. and so is the sustainability of fisheries resources, the primary source of healthy food, in a time of food crisis.
madam president, i would like to thank mrs aubert for her report. i think it shows clearly the political will of this parliament to support whatever action is necessary to eradicate illegal fishing in all areas and, starting with ourselves, to close the community territory to imports and trade in products of illegal fishing. however, the responsibility which this proposal places on the port state and on the commission itself cannot be ignored. we are talking about a very ambitious regulation which will force the member states to be extremely vigilant and spare no means, either material or human - one of the weak points of the whole control policy - in order to turn the letter into fact. and unfortunately, that means, once again, that it is necessary to bring into play political wills other than our own. the damage caused by illegal fishing, not only to biological resources but also to legal fishermen, has been felt every day for years. we have a large part of the sector in a state of revolt right now in the face of a new peak in the fall in profitability, one of the most serious causes of which, of course, is the rise in diesel prices. but there are other factors which are added to the chapter on losses, among which the massive entry at our frontiers of low-priced imports of dubious origin is, in these circumstances, especially bloody. for example, in the last five months of the year in spain alone, the price of diesel has risen by 38%, while the price of swordfish - the quintessential imported species - has fallen by 40%. no company in any sector can survive in such an economic environment, and yet it is a proven fact that when there is the political will to keep a close eye on imports, as has happened in the past, and i can vouch for that, the prices paid to community producers recover immediately. i therefore ask you, commissioner, and the member states to implement this regulation as quickly as possible.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. madam president, it is clear that we are all in favour of protecting vulnerable marine ecosystems against destructive fishing practices. in fact, i am so in favour that i would even advocate protecting them against all destructive practices, including non-fishing. but we know that in these cases it is the fisheries sector which has to break through and set an example. as i said in connection with mrs miguélez's report on deep-sea species, i believe that our main concern should be to protect all vulnerable ecosystems that have been identified as such, wherever they are, and not just those that are fortunate enough to be found below a thousand metres. as mr freitas has already said, the united nations food and agriculture organisation (fao) has dismissed the bathymetric criterion as arbitrary and unscientific, and the regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos), including the northwest atlantic fisheries organisation (nafo), have even dismissed the 2000 metre rule - it was not even a 1000 metre limit - because, in their view, there was no point in such a limit, so they have removed it. but my question, commissioner, is this: you have said that this will apply to the fleets operating on the patagonian shelf. recently, representatives of the oceanographic institute were here presenting evaluation studies where they have not detected vulnerable marine ecosystems in this area. i therefore ask you whether you will continue to insist on applying this proposal to the community fleet operating in this area. finally, i would like to speak about the issue of observers, on which i think that a considerable amount of thought has been put into mr freitas' report. i think - and i agree with the report - that it is important to have observers who are scientists, because they are meant to assess vulnerable marine ecosystems and that cannot be done by just any observer. however, as the scientists themselves say, it seems absurd to have one per vessel, because, apart from emptying our oceanographic institutes, it would be useless to have one per vessel, since it is much more important to have planned and organised sampling campaigns and, of course, maintained over time, which is what will give us a good view of monitoring these fisheries. i would therefore be grateful if you would answer my questions and i would ask you to support mr freitas' report.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, colleagues, we all share the need to take action to eliminate destructive fishing practices that threaten vulnerable marine ecosystems. in this respect, we share the view that union vessels operating in high seas areas not subject to any regional fisheries organization or convention should be subject to a community regulation governing the conditions to be met for obtaining the appropriate special permits on those seabeds and specifying the subsequent conduct they must observe, the information they must transmit, etc. we do not agree with the restrictions proposed by the commission in article 6, which sets a maximum depth of 1 000 metres as a reasonable option for drilling of bottom trawls, because we believe that this limit provides an appropriate level of protection, because the latter is not supported by any established data. and the fact is, there's no scientific study that proves that vulnerable ecosystems are below or above those 1,000 meters. we believe that we need to go further and better document the seabed in each area, identifying where the vulnerabilities are, before we point out any maximum depths. we think it is right that if there is a chance encounter with a potentially vulnerable marine ecosystem, the vessel should stop fishing and inform the competent authorities. in this connection, we support the proposal that a representative sample of vessels to which each member state has issued a special fishing licence should be provided with a scientific observer, ensuring that there is an appropriate rotation between all vessels in successive fishing seasons. finally, we also agree that in the event of technical failure of the satellite tracking device which each vessel must carry, the master must report the geographical position at two-hour intervals and that, on returning to port, he cannot go back to sea until the tracker can be shown to be working properly. all this is done not only to ensure the sustainability of the marine environment, but also to safeguard the fishing activities necessary for our food.
madam president, as there is life outside the european parliament, i suppose that on weekends we have occasion sometimes to go to the cinema. i did this last sunday and i saw a film that i highly recommend i have no financial interest in the production and distribution of it, it is the jacobian building, which talks about the political, economic, social and cultural problems that a great mediterranean country like egypt is experiencing. at no point in the film, which is almost two and a half hours long, is there any mention of the european union, of our presence, or of the barcelona process. is that why the barcelona process does not exist, has it not been successful? no, we're not confusing things. it has not had enough visibility, but it has had a content that has benefited citizens and that has become today a point of reference for what a different foreign policy should be based on cooperation and based on equality. the barcelona process is the exact opposite of what the relationship between europe and the southern mediterranean has historically been. this is not a neo-colonial process, this is not an imposing process, it is a partnership process, an association process, let us not forget that. this process has not been able to change the great dynamics of the mediterranean, but how do we want to change in ten years, a little more, dynamics of hundreds of years? it has, however, served to reorient some of those dynamics. so what we have to do is to strengthen it politically and institutionally, with programmes, with funding. that is the union for the mediterranean. the european commission is right in saying so in its communication, and that is why this parliament is going to support that communication today and is going to support what the vast majority of european governments want: more of the barcelona process, more of the barcelona process, more of the barcelona process. that is the union for the mediterranean: not more structures but the possibility for people to live better thanks to cooperation between equals. i would like to say that in that case the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly must be the legislative body that gives democratic legitimacy to this process. it is no coincidence that you, mrs rothe, member of the euro-mediterranean parliamentary assembly, are chairing this sitting today.
madam president, the mediterranean is much deeper in its history than in its geography. it is not necessary to be from this region to understand, as the commissioner has rightly pointed out, the major problems that arise in this region: the problem of migration, the problem of the human trafficking mafias, which unfortunately is not included in the draft resolution of the transaction, the drug problem, the problem of the economic gap between the two banks and, of course, radical islamic fundamentalism, which is one of the great black holes of international politics. the situation in the mediterranean is therefore of great importance for the stability and security of our own political project. we therefore welcome this communication from the commission, for its diligence in swiftly implementing a mandate from the european council, for its realism in putting things in their place and for its common sense in underlining the additionality and also the multilateral nature of the initiatives which are reflected in this new initiative which is indeed intended to give a new impetus to the barcelona process. i would like to say, madam president, that i do not agree with some of the criticisms that have been made in this debate. i believe that the european union and the commission put figures at the service of ideals when necessary, and it is clear that the european union, in its external action, always tries to defend the principles in which we believe. but it is also true, madam president, that we often have to move from bliss and great principles to books of accounts in order to give credibility and realism, and to move from words to deeds in the policies we want to promote. it is therefore very easy, madam president, to criticize and to take initiatives, but these initiatives must be contrasted with the budgetary resources which the member states must make available to the european union in order to implement policies properly. that is why, madam president, under the current financial perspective, we have what we have and, if we do not have the means, we will not be able to achieve the ambitions we are setting out for ourselves as the european union.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall continue in french. perhaps mr schulz does not agree, but i still believe that it was president sarkosy who gave the impetus to the union for the mediterranean. that is why i think that for once i will continue to speak in this language. first of all, ladies and gentlemen, i see that this debate or this question leaves no one indifferent. they both have their say. i think that's already very, very important. it is true, i believe, that peace could perhaps be at stake in the mediterranean. it is also true that there is still a gap between the two banks, which is narrowing on the one hand, but which is still there. we must also take account of the progress that has been made: macroeconomic stability, lower inflation, human rights much better than before. of course, much remains to be done. on the other hand, there is a huge need for reforms, and these need to be faster, deeper. the question of trade and investment is also absolutely crucial. i do not believe, as mr wurtz has said, that the 'barcelona process' is dead. no, i have always said, i think it has been very difficult to implement because of the existing political problems, and it is true. when we talked about political problems, we know it was about the 'barcelona process'. unfortunately, these problems will remain, even if we try - and here i agree - to overcome these problems with absolutely concrete projects. i am therefore convinced that this is a good idea and i believe that we have carried it out in a pragmatic and practical way, and, of course, by including absolutely everyone. as regards free trade and free trade agreements, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that, because of the excessively long transition periods, 2010 is the first year in which these agreements can be implemented. we do not yet have free trade agreements. as far as agriculture is concerned, we are negotiating, but it is very complicated, for the other side as well, because it is not just a matter of giving, but also of receiving. these negotiations are always difficult. free trade agreements with tunisia and israel will be in force until 2010. a similar agreement with morocco is being finalised, but much remains to be done. the last country to be affected will be egypt. so you can see that things are very slow, and it's not because of the process, but because of the countries themselves, who don't want to go faster. i think it's worth pointing out. nevertheless, this new idea is a good idea, an opportunity, and i hope that the partners will take advantage of it. it is also true, mrs isler-béguin, that it is clear that the partners must want to dance. that is why the commission has discussed with each of them to ensure that its proposals reflect their concerns and views. as regards human rights, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that i too would not have done anything without human rights. but the "barcelona process" remains, please. that's the idea. institutions are also involved. in principle, the institutions are involved. that goes for anna lindt, too. of course anna lindt is here. and with a new presidency and a new director, all of that should now be strengthened. these things are not lost. the neighbourhood policy i mentioned, the bilateral policy, naturally also remains. because it is this policy which, through its action plans, is really trying to strengthen and promote reforms. so don't think that it's not there. this is the real added value of the projects we have actually carried out and highlighted. the university of the mediterranean in portoroz. first of all, i think it is an excellent idea of the slovenian presidency. i will personally attend the inauguration, to which i have been invited and i want to be there. as for the funding, first of all, since it is a slovenian idea, i think it is normal that the slovenians also contribute something - which they will do by giving 1 million euros. i was also asked to do something. so i tried to find something in funds that are, in principle, already programmed. it's not that easy. i found a million dollars, which i'm going to add to this project. but there are other instruments and i have informed the presidency of them. firstly, there are the structural and cohesion funds, for which we simply have to revise the allocation and which are intended for slovenia, and secondly, there are also funds for research and education. so there's funds. and you know that the erasmus grants are still valid. this is something new that we're going to be reinforcing. i would also like to speak briefly about culture. i think it has been said that robert schuman said that if we were to start the european union over again, we should have started with culture. that is true, but since there is so much poverty, so much illiteracy and so on, something else must also be done, and i can repeat what i said about human rights: all the cultural programmes remain and we have many of them. i shall say a word about the secretariat, because it was a very specific question. in the light of the various views expressed, we have come to the conclusion that, as we stated in our communication, the secretariat should be asked to fulfil its role of formulating proposals for joint initiatives which should then be adopted by political bodies and of ensuring the necessary follow-up of the decisions on projects taken by the heads of state and government. the secretariat could also have a separate legal personality and an autonomous status. the details are yet to be defined. finally, i would also like to say a word on the nuclear question. the memorandum of understanding, madam president, that our president signed with the iaea, the international atomic energy agency in vienna, is about safety and security. i personally agree and everyone should agree, because we cannot let the member states choose their own energy sources. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on energy, research and technology. but we must at least give other countries the opportunity to do what they want. in this case, safety and security are paramount. this is the question on which the memorandum is based. i am sorry, mr president, but as i said at the beginning, this debate has not left anyone indifferent.
six motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate, pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the following is the report by horst schnellhardt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation no 11 on the elimination of discrimination in respect of transport prices and conditions, in application of article 79 (3) of the treaty establishing the european economic community, and regulation (ec) no 852/2004 of the european parliament and of the council on the hygiene of foodstuffs (com (2007) 0090 - c6-0211/2007 - 2007/0037b (cod)) (a6-0143/2008).
mr. schnellhardt, congratulations on your excellent work. the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11 a.m. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the european parliament has been consulted on this matter. mr president, the treaty of lisbon and what has happened in ireland is very important, but it must not be to the detriment of a matter such as fisheries. i must say that many members are not very interested in fisheries, but if there has ever been a real crisis in the fisheries sector, it is the one we are now experiencing. on 23 december the council of fisheries ministers of the european union will take a series of decisions on the crisis in the fisheries sector, which is cyclical and structural. i think the fisheries sector in the european union would not understand that this parliament has no time to look at this issue and take no position on it. i therefore ask the political groups to show sensitivity and to hold a good debate on the crisis in the fisheries sector once and for all.
mr president, although there was no time for my speech in the last plenary session and a month has now passed, i would like to remind you that 12 may was world fibromyalgia day and chronic fatigue syndrome day, two diseases which affect women in the majority. these are two gender-specific diseases, which are difficult to diagnose, with few resources for research and treatment, and which often cause problems at work because of the lack of recognition of the disabilities they cause. we should take note of this reality. it is urgent to know its causes, to investigate treatments and to compare the results, and to raise social awareness and to obtain more information on its social, legal and employment implications. the people affected should not feel unprotected. this is our duty to the citizens.
mr president, in the early hours of 8 june, the terrorist group eta attacked the newspaper el correo when 50 people were still inside preparing the sunday edition. fortunately, there were no personal misfortunes, but there was considerable material damage. i am grateful to you for issuing a statement of solidarity, but i would like to remind this house - and to make it clear - of the urgency of eradicating the terrorist violence of eta against the media, and thus guaranteeing the full exercise of freedom of expression. that is why we europeans should also support the ratification of the treaty of lisbon, which will make it possible for justice, security and the fight against terrorism to be a common policy and not just bilateral or intergovernmental cooperation. it is therefore one reason why our solidarity also supports the ratification of the treaty of lisbon.
mr president, i would like to congratulate and applaud mrs laperrouze, who has worked extraordinarily hard with my colleagues in the group and with the whole of parliament to reach agreement and consensus. i am also very pleased about this directive, because there are a number of aspects which i think are important. firstly, as mrs lienemann has said before, sustainability is a process, and water treatment, improving its quality, water policy, is a process that we have embarked on for many years. but above all, it is a process that must be realistic, because it must be put into practice. it's much easier to legislate than to implement. it is much cheaper to legislate - it costs us nothing to ask for everything to be banned - than to enforce it, because enforcement means that it has to be done by industries, farmers and municipalities, which is not always an easy policy. and in that sense i think this is an important step forward, but it has to be realistic, because, as we saw, for example, yesterday in the referendum, sometimes it is not easy to be european, it costs money and effort and that is something that is being done at the moment, especially considering that it is a policy that applies to the territory. the whole of water policy requires that it be applied to the territory and we are therefore entering into extremely complex areas, with numerous factors, including geophysical factors, which are extremely important. i would like to add two aspects which i consider to be a conquest of this directive: firstly, it requires much more transparency from governments. water has always been somewhat opaque. at the european water forum, one of our objectives is transparency in information to citizens, and here we are starting to work seriously on the commitment to transparency in information to citizens. i would also like to say the same about indicators, including molluscs, and i would like to stress the importance of quality analysis for health.
mr president, i welcome the initiative of the committee on the environment, which joins many others of the committee on regional development in this parliament, which are not always well understood. the truth is that some things that have become known over time, including some decisions in the judicial field, make it clear that our concerns were fully justified. it is sad, however, to see the council's lack of sensitivity and almost no reaction. it is also paradoxical that matters affecting the environment, regional policy and agriculture are in the hands of the finance ministers. the persistence in not reforming the obsolete solidarity fund, despite the efforts of parliament and the commission and the obvious social demand, would require reflection on the part of national governments. i hope that this summer we will not suffer the plague of fires, drought and floods of other years. i hope that the council will not be forced once again to issue empty statements of solidarity in the absence of coordinated civil protection mechanisms and funds to help the people. and then we complain about the indifference and disinterest of the citizens in what the institutions are doing! we have tabled amendments by some members of the committee on regional development to draw the council's attention once again to the need for reforms and initiatives. we shall see whether the council's empty seats will send out any signals this time.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking parliament for its initiative at this time in strengthening the european union's response capacity in the event of disasters, since unfortunately this is a growing reality and must therefore become a fundamental challenge of political initiative and rapid response. we must approach this situation in a broad way, considering elements not only of disaster response but also of prevention and recovery, and it is therefore important that we call on the commission to come forward urgently with proposals on disaster prevention within the european union. we must also take account of the need to recognise the specific nature of natural disasters such as drought and fire in the mediterranean region and to adapt its instruments for prevention, investigation, risk management, civil protection and solidarity. we are aware that at certain times the resources available to the states to fight forest fires, especially by air, are limited, and we therefore ask the commission to propose measures to finance community equipment in order to increase capacity and to be able to supplement national resources. we must not forget in this resolution a strong appeal to the council to adopt a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the solidarity fund, in order to enable a more rapid and effective response to disasters which the member states cannot cope with on their own, without forgetting the victims of these disasters who need immediate help and assistance. we cannot remain indifferent to a reality which year after year, summer after summer, is being suffered in many territories of the european union and we must be able to respond forcefully, to prevent these misfortunes, because behind all of them there are people who suffer, there is an uncertain future and, as the european union, we cannot remain on the sidelines of it.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one.
i would also like to congratulate the commission, and of course the rapporteur, for giving us the opportunity to start this debate, to take the first steps to make 2010 a significant year in the fight against poverty. it is true that it was said in lisbon that this was one of the objectives of the european union and we have said many times and in many councils that by 2010 it should be noticeable that it had decreased, which, unfortunately, is not true. we must therefore make additional efforts to those already made and seize the opportunity to know, once again, that growth and wealth creation do not come to everyone equally. there are categories of the population, there are layers of the population, especially the vulnerable, who need protection and who need above all to prevent poverty from arising, because then it is very difficult to fight it. it must therefore be a horizontal policy that must lead to decent employment, to opportunities in education, not only in the framework of this programme, but in all the policies of the european union, so that solidarity remains at the heart of the union and not just economic policies.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate our rapporteur and the commissioner on this initiative. social exclusion and poverty are two sides of the same coin, that of a society with serious shortcomings, a society with a deficit of social cohesion. progress, ladies and gentlemen, is ultimately a question of ethics. 2010 will be the year of the fight against poverty. we know that eradicating social exclusion and poverty is a complex and long-term task, but if we are able to put every euro earmarked for this programme to good use, if we are able to target the groups that require the most attention, if we are able to raise the awareness of public opinion and citizens, we will have worked towards building european citizenship. and this is the big question. last week, the citizens of ireland rejected the treaty of lisbon. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. that is why we must also make 2010 the year of the fight against poverty, the year of european citizenship.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by gábor harangozó, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the impact of cohesion policy on the integration of vulnerable communities and groups (2007/2191 (ini)) (a6-0212/2008).
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for taking the initiative in drawing up a text which states that one of the main objectives of the european union is to reduce social, economic and territorial disparities between regions. cohesion policy has effectively contributed to reducing these differences, but much remains to be done, as the fourth cohesion report itself points out. in all regions - even the most prosperous - there are vulnerable groups of people at greater risk of social exclusion and absolute poverty. an integrated approach to deficiencies in terms of equal opportunities is needed. it is necessary for member states and regional administrations to develop strategies to revitalize vulnerable areas, developing their infrastructure, stimulating their real development opportunities in accordance with their specific economic potential and maintaining services of general interest through local administrations strengthened by decentralisation of the public sector.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think this was a good discussion and i would like to thank all those who contributed to the debate, which showed that the integrated policy approach is the best way to address effectively the problem of different vulnerable communities and groups. the link between cohesion policy and rural development policy seems particularly important here. i also share members’ concern that, in cases where there is a territorial concentration of problems related to vulnerable groups, a territorial approach to policy is justified. social inclusion should not be dissociated from territorial cohesion. i also appreciate members’ emphasis on intra-regional disparities. as many members have pointed out, developing good-quality, reliable intra-regional statistics would be of much help in this context. as i said in my introductory remarks, the commission intends to invest further in developing such a database. we are now building a rural audit in the same way as we did an urban audit in the past. good cooperation with member states on this issue will be essential and i count very much on parliament’s support in this context.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next and final item is the debate on the report by frithjof schmidt, on behalf of the committee on development, on the coherence of development policy and the effects of the exploitation of certain natural biological resources by the eu on the development of west africa (2007/2183 (ini)) (a6-0137/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur, mr schmidt, on this report. policy coherence for development is an important issue, and let me assure you that reducing the adverse effects and fully exploiting synergies between european policies and development is an integral part of our efforts to achieve the millennium development goals. other policies apart from development policy can in fact contribute significantly to development, and this naturally has a direct impact on the effectiveness of our aid. as you rightly state in your report, tropical deforestation is a matter of concern for us all and i consider that a distinction should be made here between two aspects: deforestation and climate change on the one hand and combating illegal exploitation of forests on the other. in bali, the international community clearly identified the destruction of forests as one of the main causes of climate change. in keeping with the spirit of the un climate change conference the commission intends to contribute eur 5 million in 2008 to the forest carbon partnership facility, which is run by the world bank. an additional eur 60 million will be earmarked up to 2010 to finance the global alliance against climate change, an initiative we launched last year to underpin the efforts of the poorest countries to adapt to climate change. lastly, several countries including ghana, cameroon, mali, sierra leone and cote d’ivoire have also included measures on the management of natural resources and governance of this sector in their national programmes for the 10th european development fund. west africa is also an important partner of the union when it comes to combating the illegal exploitation of forests, as are cameroon, ghana, liberia and cote d’ivoire, which export considerable amounts of timber to europe. two of these countries, cameroon and ghana, are at this very moment finalising a voluntary flegt partnership agreement with the union, and liberia should be embarking on similar negotiations very shortly. in relation to fisheries policy, as you rightly emphasised, the new fisheries partnership agreements have brought about greater coherence between the common fisheries policy and development policy; these new agreements are no longer confined to offering fishing opportunities to community vessels, but also make it possible to embark on a dialogue with other partners in order to help them introduce a real sustainable and responsible fisheries policy in their waters. in addition to the financial compensation granted under the fisheries agreements, which often contribute significantly to our partner countries’ revenue and hence to their macroeconomic stability, these agreements form an essential political and legal basis. this enables the community to facilitate the development of their fisheries policies on the basis of dialogue and in the light of the priorities our partners have established in their fisheries policies. where i cannot agree with you, however, is the statement in the report linking immigration and fisheries agreements. even the countries concerned – take for instance senegal, in the person of its minister of state, mr djibo ka – have publicly rejected the accusations that the presence of community vessels is having a significant impact on resources and on the decline in profitability for non-industrial fishermen who are often the people most affected by illegal immigration. we are indeed working with fishermen, ngos and private partners in europe and in these countries precisely to try and reduce as much as possible all negative interaction and unfair competition between our fishermen and the most vulnerable fishermen in these countries. at the moment there is no european fleet competing with the non-industrial fleets of these countries in west africa, although the same cannot be said of other foreign industrial fleets.
opinion of the committee on fisheries - first of all, i must deplore the unacceptable behaviour of the committee on development, which has allowed itself, as if that committee were not subject to the rules of procedure of the european parliament, to skip the procedure for enhanced cooperation provided for in article 47 and to correct what the committee on fisheries has to say on matters within its strict competence. it has also shown a completely disloyal behaviour from the very beginning of the history of this report, caused by its obsession with wanting to usurp a competence of the fisheries committee, such as fisheries association agreements. while the committee on fisheries has delivered an opinion, which has consciously sought to be fully respectful of the sensitivities that we know this issue arouses in the committee on development, it has ended up, as it had intended from the beginning, intervening in matters of pure common fisheries policy. mr president, some committee chairmen tend to believe themselves to be above right and wrong, as if they were not affected by the rules of procedure of parliament, although they should be its main defenders. this results in fruitless clashes between committees and damages the credibility of the whole institution. i hope that this case will serve to put an end to these temptations to abuse power and that all those interested in the role played by fisheries partnership agreements in the development of national fish stocks and sectors in west africa will be able to analyse this through a full report without prior censorship. with the amendment tabled, the rapporteur, with the support of the ppe-de group, wants to show her willingness to put the matter back on its feet, although we announce that if this is not the case, that is to say, if there is no commitment on the part of the political groups in support of the amendment, we will ask for the report to be returned to the committee responsible for the substance.
member of the commission. − mr president, the discussion at this very late hour has clearly indicated the importance we all attach to this issue, so once again i thank parliament for the report. as has rightly been pointed out, timber and fish are two key products for the economic and social development of west africa. let me emphasise strongly once again that ensuring that the exploitation of these natural resources is consistent with development goals must remain a priority for the european union and for the countries of west africa. as i explained in my initial presentation and would like to reiterate now, the commission is committed to this objective, and the resolution parliament is going to adopt tomorrow will be an important contribution to our work.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr manfred weber, for his excellent report. the proposal for a directive is a firm and decisive step towards the necessary common immigration policy. the directive is an essential legal instrument for safeguarding the fundamental rights of immigrants and a precondition for making progress in regulating legal immigration. the proposal sets as a priority and preferential objective the voluntary return of migrants who are in an irregular situation in the member states, by making available to them the means necessary to ensure that the return to their countries takes place in an appropriate manner and without cost to them. the alternative of forced return is proposed as a last resort, and always subject to strict respect for fundamental rights. the legal and linguistic assistance made available to immigrants and the possibility of appealing the return decision before a judicial or administrative body set up for this purpose are examples of the subsidiary character that has been sought to be accorded to forced return as opposed to voluntary return. the establishment of a maximum retention period is an essential element of the directive. it is hard to understand that in the present european union there are places where immigrants can be held indefinitely, but no state can use the directive to tighten up its immigration laws, particularly with regard to retention periods. on the other hand, there is a clear demarcation between return and asylum. clear legal safeguards are established on the detention order. the new article 15a provides for more and better conditions for minors and their families and, finally, the directive provides for the possibility of the court of justice having jurisdiction in this matter. for all these reasons, mr president, and in appreciation of the efforts of the rapporteur, the council and the commission, i ask for favourable support for the return directive.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this directive is a step forward towards a common immigration policy. it is a necessary step which must be accompanied, from now on, by other steps within the framework of a comprehensive european approach. we must develop legislative and financial instruments which will allow us to open our doors decisively to legal immigrants and to promote their integration into our societies. we must also close the door to illegal immigration and illegal work and help to dismantle the mafia networks involved in human trafficking. all this will only be achieved through close cooperation with the countries of origin and transit. we therefore urge the commission to show its initiative and we ask the council to adopt all the directives in the pipeline as soon as possible, because without a general set of measures, the citizens will not understand this directive. it aims to bring together 27 disparate legislations to ensure effective return procedures and the dignity and respect for the fundamental rights of immigrants. with our amendments, the socialists want to bring the directive closer to the most advanced and safeguarding legislation. we spanish socialists place particular emphasis on the protection and care of minors, we ask that they have access to education and that they be received in specialised centres. we also want to encourage voluntary return and strengthen the judicial guarantees of the procedure. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank you for rejecting the proposal by the rapporteur, mr manfred weber, who was seeking a shortcut in the procedure, which would have weakened the power of codecision and the credibility of this house. in the present times, we need a strong parliament, one which takes its responsibilities.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a disgrace, a real disgrace, to try to deport more than 8 million people on the basis of administrative detention. if this decision is taken - which unfortunately can be taken - it will be the end of the europe of the guarantor. many european citizens are being held in administrative detention under dictatorial conditions. this is the figure that will prevail for the deportation of 8 million people. the european union is not a political union. the same states which are going to try to recover this figure are the states which have reduced, for the first time, their aid to international cooperation in this financial year. the millennium development goals will not be achieved and this will be our contribution, from the old europe, the old europe of solidarity values, to the famine, to the food crisis. the deportation of 8 million people without any guarantee: a disgrace!! i believe and appeal to the european mobilization, to those citizens who turn their backs on this kind of legislation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next voting time.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. our group had requested, in accordance with rule 168, that this report be referred back to committee. after the agreement reached with the political groups to approve amendment no 1 tabled by our group, the ppe-de group withdraws its request for referral back to committee.
the chairman of the council. − energy issues were high on the agenda during the slovenian presidency of the council of the european union. the reliability of supply in the functioning of energy markets and the sustainable management of the environment are issues of strategic importance for the european union and its citizens. it is also becoming increasingly clear that energy is a sector that must offer new knowledge and new services if the european economy is to remain competitive in the world. more than a year ago, heads of government and member states committed themselves to sustainable goals and to strengthening efficient energy markets. the european parliament also supported the objectives set at the time and formulated proposals which were studied with great interest by the council. the third package for the gas and electricity market was a very important legislative dossier for the slovenian presidency. its main objective, the main objective of this package, is to continue the process of liberalising energy markets and to increase their efficiency and transparency. in accordance with the commission's proposal, the council, when examining this dossier, considered all five legislative proposals as one integrated package and therefore, in a meaningful way, maintained the same solutions for documents relating to the electricity and natural gas markets. the slovenian presidency achieved broad support for the key elements of the five legislative proposals at the energy council on 6 june. the most important element of this broad consensus is certainly the third option of the organisation of energy companies. at the same time, the commission's initial proposals were accepted, defining either full ownership unbundling or an independent system operator, and member states also agreed to a third option, which allows the creation of an independent transmission system operator. let me briefly summarise the most important and perhaps the most sensitive points of this agreement, which you will also address in this high-level meeting. the independent transmission system operator option will be available to countries where the transmission system will fall under the vertically integrated undertaking upon entry into force of the new directive. it can be used for both the natural gas and electricity sectors. this option allows companies to retain ownership of the transmission network, provided that it is operated by an independent operator. the organisation of the transmission system and the system operator is subject to a set of requirements within the vertically integrated undertaking, which define the independence of the system operator, balanced and impartial management, the security of the implementation of the necessary investments and also the protection of the interests of the vertically integrated undertaking itself. this will ensure: 1. the independence of the operator, management and supervisory authorities; 2. the avoidance of conflicts of interest; 3. fair and non-discriminatory access to the network; 4. fair incentives for investment, including for international connectivity; 5. independent access to the means and resources for the work of transmission system operators; and finally, additional powers for national regulators in relation to independent transmission system operators. the second element of the consensus reached in the council concerns investments by third countries in the european union. the council considers that the text should provide for a non-protectionist treatment of third-country control of the network. at the same time, there must be a guarantee that third-country companies will respect the same rules as those applicable to european union companies. in doing so, account should be taken of the interests of third countries and their companies, which seek good partnerships with energy companies in the member states. in addition, the type of energy investments already undertaken on both sides will also need to be analysed. investment and network development planning, in particular the preparation of the european union's ten-year network development plan, are also a very important area. a consistent and effective approach shall be ensured at all levels, in particular with regard to transmission system operators, in an open and transparent consultation process, as well as with all relevant actors and the agency. with regard to the latter, the agency for regulatory cooperation, the presidency considers that we have succeeded in creating a truly independent agency with effective management. its tasks will focus on international and regional cooperation, and will deal in particular with cross-border links. another important element of the agreement concerns public ownership, the handling of cross-border cases, enhanced regional cooperation, market functioning and consumer protection, and the guidelines to be adopted by the commission committees in comitology procedures. in these few points, i wanted to give you a brief overview of the main elements of the council's consensus. i am convinced that the compromise text is also a good basis for the next presidency trio and for cooperation with this high authority.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like first of all to congratulate all the rapporteurs, ms morgan, mr chichester, mr vidal-quadras and ms de vits, on their excellent reports, as well as the shadow rapporteurs and all the members of the committees involved. the deadlines have been very short and the package is challenging and complicated. i have greatly appreciated all the work done over these few months and the very high level of involvement of the members of the european parliament. let me again highlight the key challenges that we are facing. i know that they are of particular concern to this house. with this far-reaching package, the commission has one objective in mind: the interests of the citizens of the european union. of course, market opening cannot as such stop oil prices from increasing. however, exactly at a time of high prices, we need to ensure truly effective competition on our energy markets to guarantee that the effects of these prices on our citizens are as limited as possible. already now, some of europe’s citizens have benefited from more choice and from more competition to keep prices as low as possible, as well as increasing standards of service and security. for far too many of europe’s citizens, however, the process of developing real competitive markets is far from complete, and they are not in a position to make a real choice of supplier. this is not just about better prices and more choice. ensuring security of supply will need massive investments in new networks over the next couple of decades. if we allow the status quo to continue, these investments will just not be made to the extent needed. furthermore, a functioning internal market is one of the key elements of the eu’s efforts to tackle climate change. without competitive electricity and gas markets, an emissions trading scheme will never work properly and our aims regarding renewable energy will quite simply fail. we all agree on the need for legislative reforms to remedy the numerous shortcomings of the current legislative and regulatory framework. indeed, in the vidal-quadras report of 10 july 2007, the european parliament showed its determination in achieving such an ambitious policy in the field of energy. let me now turn to some of the issues of the reports in more detail. of course, the reports are very substantial and i will, therefore, focus on only some elements. many amendments that are being proposed can be supported by the commission. the majority of amendments on strengthening consumer rights in ms morgan’s report are welcomed, and go hand in hand with the intention in the report from ms de vits. the emphasis on stronger regional cooperation of network operators is also welcomed. a number of amendments also usefully clarify or complement the commission’s proposal, in particular as regards the role of the network operator, the powers of national regulators and an effectively well-functioning and secure internal energy market. on a number of issues, the commission also supports the overall objective of the committee, although it may have some reservations about the precise wording of the proposals. i again would like to emphasis that the protection of vulnerable customers and the fight against energy poverty are essential to the implementation of market opening and should definitely be strengthened. the commission will look carefully at the wording in order to respect the principle of subsidiarity. price regulation should also not prevent proper investment signals and market entry. further, as regards the report by ms de vits on the consumer charter, i find the report and most of the proposed amendments very relevant. many of the ideas have also been taken up in ms morgan’s report, and the commission can agree with many of these, not least on the need for better information to be rapidly delivered to consumers. as you know, the commission will shortly propose to member states an energy consumer checklist designed to help collect and deliver relevant information to consumers about their energy markets. indeed, i agree that possible new consumer rights need to be introduced into the ongoing legislative process and that the purpose of the charter is to better communicate on energy consumer rights and thus render them more well-known with consumers. it will be difficult to attempt to harmonise all public service obligations at eu level. however, the commission will monitor the correct implementation of the directives, especially to ensure that vulnerable consumers are being defined at national level and that national support schemes are being made available in a transparent and effective way. in addition, the citizens’ energy forum will be the driving force to establish competitive retail markets in the eu, while at the same time ensuring that vulnerable consumers are protected. following the conference on the rights of energy consumers on 6 may, the commission has launched a process of consultation with all parties concerned. on energy efficiency and promotion of renewables, the commission fully shares the concerns of the committee on industry, research and energy, but we believe that the internal market directive is not the best place to discuss this subject. we believe the objectives of the committee can be pursued in the context of the new renewables directive presently under discussion. regarding the fight against market concentration, we share the committee’s view that this is essential, but consider that the commission’s proposal already gives the right and powers to regulators to take measures to ensure proper market functioning. on two important points, however, we do not fully share the conclusions reached by the committee: the use of comitology and some issues on the role of the agency. on the use of comitology, the general deletion of this procedure would render ineffective the whole process of developing rapidly and efficiently new, very detailed market codes. they will be essential for moving towards truly integrated energy markets in years rather than decades. the most important issue is the ability to make legally binding on all network operators the technical codes adopted under the oversight of the agency. for this purpose, the commission needs to be able to adopt them in a fast and effective manner through the comitology procedure. otherwise, they could not be legally binding within a reasonable timeframe. in more general terms, guidelines are needed, precisely to have a strong agency, in line with the position in the reports by mr chichester and mr vidal-quadras. without guidelines to frame its powers, the agency would simply be unable to issue binding individual decisions on market players. provided these essential elements are preserved, in order to take account of the committee’s concerns, the commission could, however, accept the deletion of some of the comitology procedures which, in our opinion, are less essential. on the agency, the commission wants to establish an agency with strong powers. the commission can accept amendments which give general tasks to the agency, and also ensures more open and transparent consultation with stakeholders. however, it is not possible to go beyond the ec treaty. a number of amendments proposed by the committee regarding the decision-making powers of the agency are not compatible with the principle established by the meroni judgment. this concerns in particular the degree of discretionary power conferred to the agency. i fully agree with the need for a strong and effective agency and believe that this can be achieved through the approach suggested by the commission where the agency will develop codes that involve real substantive discretion and that these are then adopted through comitology. i will not end without tackling the issue of the effective unbundling of network operation from generation and supply. the current rules mean that a large number of network operators can effectively discriminate against new entrants. this has an especially stifling effect on investments in the grid and the introduction of new capacity. the objective that we face, therefore, is to find an approach that will fully remove the inherent conflict of interest of vertically integrated network operators while providing them with the proper incentives to invest and to manage the grid in a non-discriminatory manner. the council reached a broad agreement on all essential parts of the package at the energy council of 6 june. the objective, following your vote, is to be in a position to achieve the adoption of the package at second reading at the end of this year. if the process is delayed, the package would be at risk of not being adopted before the 2009 elections. i count on parliament and on the incoming french presidency to make full use of the months ahead in order to reach an overall agreement. let me stress that at the energy council of 6 june the commission formally reserved its position on the package, notably to take into account your vote tomorrow. honorable members, you have provided a strong input to this process since its beginning. i look forward to continuing to work together with you on these proposals in the coming months in the interest of european energy consumers.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. to achieve this still distant goal, we have a long way to go and many barriers to overcome. in the report on the regulation for which i am the rapporteur, which was adopted in committee almost unanimously, we stressed the importance of increasing interconnections between member states, the need to harmonise technical standards at european level, the desirability of giving greater power to the regulatory agency, of allocating responsibilities more effectively to system operators, so that they are responsible for drafting network codes and consulting the interested parties during the drafting of the codes, also giving them the possibility of proposing codes themselves, provided that they do not contradict the framework guidelines. these proposals stem from the desire, already expressed by parliament, to have a european coordinating body for national regulators, with the capacity to decide on european issues, avoiding overlaps with decisions taken at national level, and to set up a european network of system operators to develop the technical standards necessary to ensure the fluidity of the european market. in this respect, my report is fully consistent with the chichester and paparizov reports. to achieve an internal market in electricity we must achieve harmonised rules and regulations, ensure that all players play by the same rules, promote interconnections and have independent regulators with sufficient powers to secure investments. the report by my good friend mrs morgan contains a great deal of the answers needed to deal with these problems. the issue of the division of property has given rise to many debates, at times quite intense, among us. but we are still friends, which shows that europe has a future. i understand that we are talking about a subject in which the national interest plays a major role, in which different market models are pitted against each other, in which there are established situations that we must take into account. but it is precisely these asymmetries that are largely holding us back and i do not think that drawing up a varied list of "made-to-measure" models is the solution. separation of property is not a panacea, but it is a necessary condition - though certainly not sufficient - for achieving an integrated single market. some of mrs morgan's ideas are more controversial, such as social tariffs to tackle the problem of energy poverty, because doing so would risk interfering with markets. the council reached a general agreement on the package more than a week ago. we'll finish our first reading before the summer. but in conclusion, i would like to convey to the representative of the council, our dear and respected friend, mr lenarčič, the will of parliament to negotiate an agreement at second reading which is satisfactory for the european union as a whole. the legislature is coming to an end and the 'take it or leave it' approach would be wrong, because this parliament, mr president-in-office, reacts very badly when it is not respected or feels overly pressured. this is not the time to divide into soft and hard or to act solely in the national interest. it is time for sensible, balanced and, in the best sense of the word, european approaches.
madam president, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs on their good work and, in particular, to express my support for mrs morgan's position on the effective separation of ownership between generation and supply activities on the one hand and network ownership and operation on the other. it is clear that large vertically integrated companies hinder the entry of new competitors into the market and, in particular, the development and installation of renewable energy sources. all this takes us away from the objectives of competitiveness and the fight against climate change that we have set ourselves as europeans. i therefore call on the minority opposed to the separation to put aside national interests, which are perishable in the short term, and to take steps to move forward in the direction of building an energy-strong and secure europe. and finally, i would like to stress that while access to the renewable energy grid is essential to achieving our objectives, it is equally essential to increase electricity interconnection capacity, especially for those countries which are more isolated in our energy market. i also thank the rapporteur for having considered this matter.
the chairman of the council. - let me start with a general thought. we in the council certainly agree that the situation in the internal energy market is not good, not satisfactory. that is why we have been working for many years to reach agreement on the establishment of a genuine internal market in gas and electricity in order to establish genuine competition and a level playing field for all the players in this market. on 6 june, as i said, the council made important progress. several speakers today, including mrs morgan, and many others, have stressed that complete ownership unbundling is the most effective way of establishing a genuine internal market in gas and electricity. this is also the position of the commission and the majority of the member states. but regardless, a compromise was needed to reach an agreement. this compromise was not easy, but we succeeded. the compromise means that there are three options available and the presidency's assessment is that the application of these options in accordance with the envisaged rules could lead us to a situation where a level playing field is established for all actors in the internal gas and electricity market, where genuine competition is established. let me make a few other points. the question of poverty and energy poverty was mentioned several times. this is a very important question, especially in the face of soaring energy prices. however, the fact is that this is the responsibility and duty of individual member states in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and this has also been emphasised by mr hökmark and some others that member states are obliged to ensure that the poorest also have access to energy. the issue of consumer protection has been raised on several occasions. a considerable number of debaters have discussed this. i would like to stress that the text of the presidency, or rather the compromise of the presidency, contains very important provisions in the field of consumer protection. in particular, it requires that consumers be adequately informed about their energy consumption, about the costs involved, and that they be informed frequently enough to be able to regulate their consumption. and of course, there is also the possibility for them to change suppliers at any time and also to be informed promptly and in due course of the prices set by the bidders. the commission's role in the implementation of the programme is to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission. the agency is not gonna be a paper tiger. the agency will also have the possibility of taking binding decisions, in particular on matters involving two or more member states, which is an important innovation. the problem of small and isolated systems was mentioned by several debaters, in particular by mr biruti, mr zīle and others. let me say that the text of the agreement reached in the council provides for derogations or exceptions for such countries or for such markets until their isolation is lifted. perhaps a word about renewable resources. our package, the council's package, provides for priority access to the grid for energy from renewable sources. i would like to conclude by welcoming the determination expressed by mr vidal-quadras to reach an agreement at second reading between the european parliament and the council. that is the wish of the council. the presidency believes that the agreement reached on 6 june has created the possibility of such an agreement being reached by the end of the year. this is particularly important in light of our ambition to reach an agreement on the climate and energy package as early as 2009. i note from this debate that the positions of the council and the european parliament are not very different. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and all those who took part in the debate. i think this discussion will be very useful to the council in its work and in reaching our common agreement within the desired timeframe.
member of the commission. − madam president, today’s debate very much focused on households, and the commission proposal goes beyond households: it is definitely also industry. with all due respect to vulnerable consumers, what we are trying to achieve is a well-functioning market. you cannot ever subsidise everything because it means taking from somebody to give to someone else; i know that there will be vulnerable consumers that we should pay due attention to, but basically what we are trying to achieve is a well-functioning interconnected european market based on the values and experiences that we have in other fields. the energy market has only recently started to develop and it takes some time to put into place, but i believe that today’s debate really shows that the commission proposal addresses all the main areas correctly. there have been slight doubts about whether the change is necessary. i believe that change is necessary: not only the commission’s annual reports, but also the competitive sector inquiry has demonstrated this. parliament’s vidal-quadras report said that we need a change and we need proposals. on the ground we have also had some developments in competition law recently. the difficulty is that if you can discover anti-competitive behaviour, it is all ex-post: you impose fines but the consumer has already paid the price. so it is structural change that is necessary and i believe that the proposals we have made are a response to it. there are a couple of issues where i believe we are going beyond just an energy market proposal. let us start with the agency. i completely agree that an independent agency is a key. the difficulty i have is that we also have case-law which draws boundaries, and the commission is made as strong as possible, within legal boundaries, if we have an agency. on comitology, i understand parliament’s questions about comitology but this is the procedure that we have and we should use this procedure to achieve the result. on infringement, it was mr paasilinna who said that this is the procedure we have, and we should use it because we do not have another procedure. there was a question about consumer rights. there is subsidiarity, but aviation is more of a cross-border issue. i believe the energy charter is more closely related to subsidiarity. we set a good example, but should we really bring in european legislation? i have some doubts. i am not necessarily against it, but there is a boundary between where european legislation is needed and where national law starts in this respect. at any rate i believe these are the issues, and parliament will surely find the right approach. i shall finish by thanking mrs morgan, mrs de vits, giles chichester and alejo vidal-quadras once again for their excellent reports. i think that the debate clearly showed that there was a lot of internal debate, and i am looking forward to the vote tomorrow, because the vidal-quadras report paved the way for us to make the proposal. i know that council and parliament will need to work to find a balanced solution. both sides are ready. much depends on the vote tomorrow where parliament will stand, but i clearly understand that there is political will to find agreement and we will have the proposal adopted during this legislature for the benefit of our consumers, and i think that is great. commission’s position on amendments by parliament morgan report (a6-0191/2008) the commission can accept amendments 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 12, 14, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 26, 29, 30, 33, 34, 35, 36, 40, 44, 46, 48, 50, 54, 56, 57, 58, 61, 65, 70, 71, 73, 74, 77, 83, 84, 88, 89, 92, 93, 94, 97, 99, 101, 102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 111,112, 113, 114, 118, 119, 120, 122, 123, 124, 126, 128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 146, 147, 148, 149, 150, 151 and 152. the commission can accept amendments 10, 11, 16, 24, 38, 39, 41, 42, 43, 45, 47, 55, 59, 60, 66, 68, 72, 79, 80, 82, 85, 86, 87, 95, 98, 100, 109, 110, 115, 117, 121, 125, 127, 138, 153, 155, 165, 166 and 167 in part. the commission cannot accept amendments 3, 7, 9, 13, 27, 28, 31, 32, 37, 49, 51, 52, 53, 62, 63, 64, 67, 69, 75, 76, 78, 81, 90, 91, 96, 103, 104, 116, 139, 140, 141, 142, 143, 144, 145, 154, 156, 157, 158, 159, 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 168, 169, 170, 171 and 176. vidal-quadras report (a6-0228/2008) the commission can accept amendments 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 21, 22 and 29. the commission can accept amendments 6, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 20, 24, 25, 28, 31 and 32 in part. the commission cannot accept amendments 13, 19, 23, 26, 27, 30 and 33. chichester report (a6-0226/2008) the commission can accept amendments 1, 6, 9, 10, 12, 16, 45, 48, 49, 53, 54, 64 (regarding paragraph 3), 64 (paragraph 4), 66, 72 and 75. the commission can accept amendments 3, 4, 5, 7, 11, 13, 14, 15, 19 (paragraph 1a), 19 (paragraph 1da), 19 (paragraph 1db), 19 (paragraph 1de), 19 (paragraph 1df), 19 (paragraph 1dh), 23, 24, 26, 27, 28, 31, 32, 33, 35, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 47, 51, 57, 58, 59, 61, 64 (paragraph 1), 68, 70, 74 and 76 in part. the commission cannot accept amendments 8, 17, 18, 19 (paragraph 1c), 19 (paragraph 1d), 19 (paragraph 1dc), 19 (paragraph 1dd), 19(1dg), 20, 21, 22, 25, 29, 30, 34, 36, 37, 38, 46, 50, 52, 55, 56, 60, 62, 63, 64 (paragraph 2), 64 (paragraph 5), 64 (paragraph 7), 64(8), 65, 67, 69, 71 and 73.
the rapporteur. - i should like to begin by thanking the excellent cooperation and the excellent atmosphere which prevailed in the preparation of these reports, particularly with mrs morgan, mr chichester and all the alternative rapporteurs. let us see, ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake here is to know what we want and whether we all want the same thing, because what cannot be said, in good logic, is that the separation of property is a kind of universal magic key that opens all doors and will bring us the solution to all problems. no one said that. the separation of ownership of the transmission network and generation is a necessary condition which helps, facilitates and enables the market to function properly, third parties to enter the market and investments to be guaranteed. but of course it doesn't solve all the problems. who said that? no one said that. in my country, for example, where there is a division of property, there are many problems. the regulatory agency is not independent enough. there is a tariff deficit, there are regulated tariffs that distort the market. we are an energy island that needs more interconnections. does that mean that if we have separation of property, all that's going to be solved? no, because that is due to other causes that have nothing to do with the separation of property. let's see if we can use logic, aside from politics and national interests. i cannot therefore speak for this parliament, mr president-in-office of the council, because i am one of the 785 members, but i can give you an impression, the fruit of nine years in this house, and i say one thing to you: there is a will to reach an agreement, there is a will to negotiate, there is good will, mr president-in-office of the council, but convey to the council that this good will must be reciprocal. and if it is reciprocal, we can arrive, as has happened in the case of the gas market, at formulas which meet our objective.
mr president, commissioner, european poultry farming, along with other animal production sectors, is going through a difficult period. in this context, it is all the more surprising that the commission has rushed to ask europe to allow the entry into its territory of chicken meat treated with chlorinated products, a request which seems to be aimed solely and exclusively at meeting the commercial needs and aspirations of the united states of america. i need not remind you that in europe the poultry sector receives no direct support from the cap. this is despite the fact that since 1997 our producers have been banned from using the same substances which are now being authorised and are also subject to strict controls throughout the production cycle to prevent bacterial growth and to comply with the high community hygiene standards. however, in the case of producers in third countries, the commission considers that a simple chlorinated bath is more than enough and this would, in my view, mean that the efforts made by our producers are and have been completely useless. if i may say so, it is not possible that we are so stupid and they are so clever. in my view, this request from the commission must be opposed.
mr president, commissioner, the european commission now wants to allow american chicken treated with bleach and wants us to accept it without question in order to improve trade relations with the united states. the european commission's frivolity in this matter is in stark contrast to its seriousness in producing new texts on food safety, which sometimes impose such restrictions on community production that they are sometimes unworkable. the commission is losing credibility with consumers and public opinion with these kinds of proposals, and i think that we should not accept pressure from member states, commercial pressure from the united states, even if the european commission asks for it. in january 2008, a study published in the us journal consumer report revealed a 70% increase in the incidence of zoonosis in chickens treated in the united states with antimicrobial procedures compared to 2003. an increase in antibiotic resistance has also been observed in contaminated individuals. at the same time, the european union has seen a decline in the incidence of zoonotic diseases in chicken meat, and without using the american methods. the european union is doing its homework, because it controls zoonoses from the very beginning of the production chain and, moreover, because it applies the principle of 'prevention is better than cure', which is being met to the hilt, at very high cost, by the producer and the industry of the european union. in the specific case of the fight against zoonoses, a very strict regulation was introduced in 2003 which took a long time to implement and which reinforces the control of diseases transmissible to humans. the implementation of that regulation is resulting in a reduction in the incidence of those diseases. the european producer and european industries in general have to respect these rules because otherwise they can be penalized. why not keep strict control of the americans?
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the ‘comitology dossier’ has two main features. on the one hand, it is extremely technical, and probably any common citizen would find it difficult to understand. on the other hand, it is very important since it concerns how parliament exercises its control over implementing acts. the 2006 reform of the comitology decision introduced something called the ‘regulatory procedure with scrutiny’, giving parliament a veto right on measures of general scope that amend a legal act adopted under codecision. by the end of 2006, 26 acts identified as particularly urgent were already brought into conformity with the new procedure, which ensures a stronger role for parliament, and i am happy to see that today we are here to welcome further progress. between november 2007 and february 2008 the commission proposed to bring more than 220 acts into line with the new regulatory procedure with scrutiny. to facilitate parliament and council examination of these files, we opted for grouping proposals in a so-called ‘omnibus’ approach. four omnibuses were adopted. the commission is now very pleased to see that a first-reading agreement is possible on the first and third omnibus proposals and that good and fair compromise solutions have been reached between the three institutions. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur and the parliamentary committees which worked very hard and very rapidly. the commission would like to make the following declaration. in the context of the review of directive 2005/36/ec, as provided in article 60 of the directive, the commission will assess in particular the implementation of its delegated powers under the article 61 derogation clause of the directive. the commission strongly supports the political will to move ahead on this topic and the will of parliament to move forwards as quickly as possible. we hope to see a strong commitment from the council as well. i will raise this issue with the french presidency and i am confident that it will be active on this dossier. we will continue to cooperate closely with the two institutions to reach an agreement on the two remaining omnibus proposals.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, tonight parliament is doing something new. i think that all those who have spoken, starting with the commissioner, have stressed the somewhat abstruse nature of comitology. the proof is that we have no one in the audience tonight following this debate and if i had to explain to my constituents what i'm doing here tonight at 11 o'clock, it would take a lot of work. i think that the various speakers have referred to this difficulty and i think that, in the interest of making the institutions of the european union a little more attractive, we will have to look for some procedure by which we can explain to the citizens what we are really discussing. the package of measures we are considering is certainly quite extensive. as the commissioner has said, there are four bus packages. we are looking at nothing but the first and the third, and we are looking at the difficulties they pose from the point of view of implementation, article by article. as the rapporteur and others have said, this exercise is a necessary exercise, but we should obviously try to clarify it. perhaps it is worth referring to some of the themes. for example, council directive 76/160/eec on the quality of bathing water or council directive 91/271/ec on the treatment of urban waste water. the procedure adopted will have practical consequences for the citizens, but the question is how to get it to them. i think that mr szájer has done a good job, that we in this parliament have tried to act with a sense of responsibility, that we are going to continue to do so and the only thing that is going to remain is this part, which is to convey to the citizens what we are really doing here, and this is quite difficult. i think that will be the challenge we have and, continuing with what we have managed to do, with what we are doing tonight, i think that second part we should develop in the future so that this parliamentary debate is not as bleak as the one we have tonight.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all allow me to thank the rapporteur, mr gerardo galeote for this report, which i can fully support, and for his efforts in dealing with this file in the most diligent manner. i am also pleased to note the strong support of the committee on regional development for this proposal. the canary islands are one of the european union’s outermost regions and are characterised by their geographical and economic isolation. the european union has long recognised the need to reduce, eliminate or temporarily suspend customs tariffs in order to encourage production in such regions by facilitating the supply of raw materials. since 1991, the european union has suspended, partially or in full, the common customs tariff duties on imports into the canary islands of a number of products. in the case of fisheries products, such measures applied only to raw materials to be used in products solely intended for consumption in the local market. the import quotas at reduced tariff proposed now by the commission follow on from similar measures laid down in council regulation (ec) no 704/2002 of 25 march 2002, which covered the period from 1 january 2002 to 31 december 2006. the tariff quotas are to be seen, in terms of support to the canary islands’ economy, as complementing other measures taken on the basis of article 299(2) of the ec treaty, in particular the scheme to compensate for the additional costs incurred in the marketing of certain fishery products from the outermost regions – implemented by means of council regulation (ec) 791/2007 of 21 may 2007. in order to align the proposed measures with the latter scheme, the commission proposes that the tariff quotas should apply for seven years to cover the period 2007-2013. this is two more years than provided for under the previous regulation and should come into force retrospectively as from 1 january 2007 in order to ensure continuity. turning to the report, i would like to comment on the amendments proposed. the commission notes that three amendments relate to the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. in this regard, i would like to underline that the commission has recently proposed a comprehensive system to prevent products resulting from iuu fishing activities entering the community market, a proposal for which parliament has expressed broad support. the commission considers that it is not in the proposed tariff quota regulation that measures to combat iuu fishing should be included. therefore the amendments cannot be accepted. instead of having a piecemeal approach, the commission is of the view that the issue of illegally harvested products should be dealt with by means of horizontal instruments, applying to all products imported into the community market, including the canary islands. i would once again like to thank mr galeote for the report and the committee on regional development for its attention on this very important issue.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the exceptional geographical situation of the canary islands in relation to the sources of supply of certain fishery products, which are essential for domestic consumption, imposes additional costs on the sector in this region and, as the commissioner has just mentioned, since 1991 the european union has tried to overcome this natural disadvantage, inter alia, by temporarily suspending customs duties on imports of the products in question, originating in third countries. the aim of this proposal for a regulation is to ensure the continuity, for the period 2007-13, of the measures set out in the existing regulation of 2002, which established a series of autonomous tariff quotas for imports of certain fishery products into the canary islands for the period 2002-06. i would like to stress that the suspension of customs duties is granted only to products destined for the internal market, and i would also like to say that this proposal was adopted almost unanimously in the council and by a very large majority in the committee on regional development. the green group has tabled four amendments which, mr president, we cannot support because they mix the concepts of illegal fishing with the contents of this regulation, the operation of which has shown in practice that the control filters set up by the customs in las palmas have worked correctly. this is supported by the report sent to the european commission by the spanish government, which is a political sign different from the option i represent. the european commission accepted it, validated it and incorporated it to a large extent in its proposal. the current proposal from the european commission specifically reaffirms the existing safeguard and control measures to prevent trade diversion. in short, the appropriate anti-fraud measures are being put in place which, in addition to the customs filters already mentioned, constitute a sufficient set of instruments, under the control of the community institutions, for the proper functioning and monitoring of community quotas, which, as has been proved, have nothing to do with illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. in conclusion, mr president, the imports of fishery products covered by the canary islands quotas are legal, are declared and are properly regulated and i therefore ask for support for the european commission's proposal and the rejection of the amendments tabled.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. as the commissioner has said, this is a continuation of an instrument which has been in force for many years now - since 1991 - and which expired in 2006, thus closing a regulatory gap that exists to this day. this regulation is legally and budgetarily justified. it is also politically and economically important to maintain an activity essential for the canary islands. since the loss of our fisheries in the former 'canary-saharan fishing bank', we have been forced to import for domestic consumption, as in this case. the activities of a major fish processing industry have been lost on the islands since then. in some islands, this activity was essential to avoid making them exclusively dependent on tourism. the greens/efa group has tabled amendments to this regulation which are contrary to it, using demagogic arguments and false accusations. in the canary islands parliament, the presence of green deputies is zero; in the 88 canary islands municipalities the number of green mayors is zero; of the 29 councillors of the city of las palmas, the number of green councillors is zero; the greens are barely present in a couple of canary islands municipalities in which, by the way, they govern in coalition with the popular party. i think that a greater political presence of the greens in the canary islands is desirable, but with initiatives like this, full of demagogy and false accusations, believe me, mr amendmentist, you are going in the wrong direction, you will have less and less political and social support in the canary islands.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, on behalf of the socialist group, i rise to support mr galeote's report, as well as the comments of mr borg, commissioner, and also the information provided by my colleague, mr fernández martín. i think the regulation is absolutely necessary because the canary islands are a region with 2 million inhabitants, in which many millions of tourists reside and which, as mr fernández martín points out, after having lost the western sahara fishery, depends for its livelihood and to feed the tourist industry on fish imports. the assumption that at this moment, in the canary islands customs, which are subject to strict controls by the spanish state and the european union, these products which come under a special tariff regime are going to be diverted is a serious accusation against the functioning of the institutions of the spanish state and also denotes a great ignorance on the part of the amenders of the real situation in the canary islands. they should visit the canary islands, see how the port operations work, before they put forward these rash amendments. i think mr borg has indicated that the procedure or control of the procedures for the entry and exit of fishery products will be done from the commission, and that is what is being done at the moment. if any anomaly were to be demonstrated, action would have to be taken accordingly. but we must not accept these amendments, which would lead to the abolition of the concessions made by the european union so that in our region, this small and modest region, with an area of only 7 500 km2 and 2 million inhabitants, we can continue to exist. if the amendments are passed, they will have succeeded in making the canarian citizen's shopping basket more expensive and making it more difficult to maintain the tourist industry. i therefore hope that, as in the committee on regional policy, the european parliament will give its full support to the proposal put forward by mr galeote. i would like to take this opportunity to point out that the difficulties facing these outermost regions are not generally understood within the european union. we are also discussing another issue at this moment, which is emissions trading. measures which can be taken in a general way for a central region of the european union can have devastating effects on the outermost regions of the union. we are talking about small territories - in total we are talking about a population of 4 million people, spread over islands in the pacific, the atlantic and the caribbean - which, if no special measures are taken for them, would be in difficulty. i therefore ask the members who have tabled these amendments to find out what the real situation is and to understand the difficulties faced by these outermost regions before acting in this way.
member of the commission. − mr president, from the debate it is clear that our objective is a shared one, both in terms of our support through the proposed measure for the outermost region of the canaries, but also in our commitment to combat iuu. i repeat what i have just said, that we are committed to fighting iuu and have proposed a comprehensive regulation which we hope will be adopted in two weeks’ time in the council meeting on 24 june. therefore, we believe that the approach to iuu should remain horizontal and that, consequently, proposing amendments to this regulation is not the appropriate way of moving forward. with regard to the comment made by mr staes, i would like to say that the infringement procedure, which is infringement procedure 2002/2184, is still active. the information received as a result of the various inspections carried out indicates that there have been improvements, though the commission will further evaluate the situation and, more specifically, it will decide whether a final inspection is needed to bring this procedure to a conclusion. by this i mean to say that either the procedure will be brought to an end if spain is found to comply, or we will continue proceedings before the court of justice in order to attain a decision on this whole question.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i will be very brief because of the time involved, but above all because, firstly, the european commission - which is not suspicious, i suppose - has been conclusive in endorsing the controls established by the regional and national authorities and, in fact, we are debating a proposal of its own here; secondly, because, of the 27 member states, 27 have given their support; and, thirdly, because our parliamentary committee approved the proposal practically unanimously. mr staes' attitude reminds me of the mother who goes to see her son parade after his military service and says to someone next to her: look how good my son is, because he is the only one who parades well, all the others in his company parade with a changed foot. i would ask the amendmentists to think about it. could it be that they are the ones in the wrong in this case and not the rest of mankind?
mr president, we have spoken here today of respect, it is true, we must respect the result of the irish referendum, those who voted yes and those who voted no. i think there is a consensus that we must respect the rest of the countries and therefore continue the ratification. but i want to speak of democratic respect and i want to say clearly that a plebiscite has the same value as a parliamentary approval, exactly the same value. first of all, respect. second r, reflection. we have to think about the reasons for the 'no' vote in ireland, and we have to make an effort to explain why the lisbon treaty is better than the current treaties, and we have to do it with facts and figures. we have to explain to people that - just as a few days ago an irish horse won the epsom derby, a horse called new approach - so too is a new approach the lisbon treaty, which europe needs to be an added value for its people. and after that reflection, the third r, resolution. we have to find a solution, and at this point let me be very clear: some of the supporters of 'no' used a deadly and despicable argument. they said, "vote no, we'll renegotiate the lisbon treaty with benefits for ireland". i want to make it clear that europe is a community of rights, where affectio societatis and pacta sunt servanda rule, and we in the european parliament are clear that there will be no renegotiation of the lisbon treaty, because that is what europeans and this parliament believe is necessary for europe to move forward. and we who are in favour of a 'yes' to the treaty of lisbon want to build. and i ask: what is the alternative of those who ask for no? explain it to me.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to add the following to rule 2d. i say in english:the european network of transmission system operators for electricity shall collect all relevant information regarding the implementation of the network codes and submit it to the agency for evaluation;
i voted in favour of some amendments - four in particular - which proposed improvements to this directive. but i also voted for the directive at the end, even though these amendments were not adopted. i believe that this directive substantially improves the rights of irregular immigrants in a large number of countries in the european union, and that is a fact that cannot be denied, because it is enough to compare the legislation that exists at the moment in the union as a whole. it is certainly not the directive that some of us would have written, if we had written it ourselves, if we had been allowed to write it ourselves. but that is the balance in the codecision process between the legitimacy of the european parliament and the legitimacy of all the national parliaments and governments. it is these parliaments that now have a great deal of responsibility for the implementation of this directive, and also the european commission and the court of justice in monitoring how it is applied. from now on, restrictions on rights in the member states are the application of european law. they are no longer national decisions.
in writing. - i am voting against because it is a very sensitive issue, as it affects more and more people, and the fact that it is treated as a logistical rather than a human problem cannot be tolerated. provisions such as the imposition of a readmission ban of up to 5 years throughout the european territory, the open possibility of detaining families and unaccompanied minors, of returning people through transit routes, the lack of protection for people vulnerable to removal, the fact that it does not prevent the detention of asylum seekers or the lack of substantial guarantees on appeal against return and internment decisions, are simply not acceptable. moreover, immigration is closely linked to development policy. the eu must put in place the measures and aid needed to ensure that there is real development in third countries. immigrants and undocumented people have not chosen to be immigrants, but cannot afford to stay on their land, as in many cases their basic needs are not met. and that, in the 21st century, is a fact that should make us ashamed.
the chairman of the council. - first of all, i would like to thank the honourable member, mr morillon, for his question on behalf of the committee on fisheries. i would like to stress at the outset that the slovenian presidency is fully aware of the seriousness of the problem of rising fuel prices and, in this context, of the negative consequences this phenomenon has for fisheries in the european union. i can tell you that just yesterday the president of the agriculture and fisheries council, minister jarc, met with some of his fellow ministers on this subject and discussed with them possible proposals to improve the current difficult situation in the fisheries sector, and these will also be discussed in the coming days. let me remind you that this situation is not unique to the fishing industry. high fuel prices are hurting virtually all sectors of the economy, including agriculture, transportation, and industry. the crisis has created a difficult situation in all sectors. it is therefore a horizontal issue and contains a variety of elements relating to competition policy, state aid measures, taxation and other measures. in any event, it is precisely because of the extreme seriousness of this problem and its negative impact on the fisheries sector that the slovenian presidency has decided to put this issue on the agenda of the agriculture and fisheries council meeting to be held early next week, as mr morillon has already mentioned. this will certainly be a good opportunity for the ministers to present their views on the current situation and to exchange views with commissioner borg on the most appropriate solutions. the presidency also decided to change the theme of the informal meeting of fisheries directors, which will take place at the end of the month in slovenia, so that the fisheries directors of the member states will also be able to address this pressing issue. all this comes after the council recently addressed the issue of rising energy prices in its many meetings in various formations, and which we discussed under the previous agenda item. i would like to mention again in this context the conclusions of the economic and financial affairs council. the commissioner expressed concern about oil prices and discussed many ways of coping with the social and economic consequences of high prices. it noted the need to promote energy efficiency through the use of alternative energy sources, increase the transparency of oil markets, promote competition in energy markets and strengthen dialogue with oil-producing countries. at the same meeting, the council also encouraged the commission to examine commodity exchanges and to consider other responses to price volatility. as the presidency has already stressed in the debate this morning, this question will also be the subject of discussion at the european council meeting which starts tomorrow.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the chairman of the committee on fisheries, mr morillon, for his question, which gives me the opportunity to address the fuel crisis. i would like to say at the outset that i am pleased to see the existing very good relations between the commission and the fisheries committee of the european parliament moving from strength to strength. turning to the specific question, i am aware of the difficulties the fishing sector is going through as a result of the steep increase in the price of fuel. this increase constitutes a crisis which is structural and long-lasting and which takes on a very particular – i would be tempted to say even unique – dimension with regard to fisheries. let me say why. for many years, the eu fleet has suffered from a vicious circle of overcapacity, over-fishing, and declining profitability. at the same time, fishermen have been unable to benefit from reduced supply and rising retail prices for fish products. as a result, margins in many segments are wafer-thin, making the sector more vulnerable than others to a drastic rise in costs, such as we have seen with the price of oil. the commission understands the need for coordinated action at eu level to avert a serious crisis for the industry, and to ensure that the problem is not simply displaced but really tackled head-on. this means not only providing the possibility of emergency relief, but also committing to finally addressing the underlying issue of overcapacity, which is undermining all our attempts to get the industry back on a sustainable and profitable footing. for these reasons, as mr morillon pointed out, the college yesterday approved in principle the contents of an emergency package of measures to tackle the immediate social and economic hardship triggered by the dramatic rise in the price of oil while also tackling the underlying structural problems of the european fleet. i believe that it is vital to focus aid on the fleets which are most dependent on fuel and thus most affected by the current overcapacity. we therefore propose that member states can set up fleet adjustment schemes (fas), under which limitations on access to permanent cessation – i.e. scrapping – premiums will be lifted. additional aid for temporary cessation would be available for vessels involved in these fleet adjustment schemes and partial decommissioning aid would be granted to operators who replace larger old vessels with smaller, more energy-efficient ones. there would also be provisions to allow for temporary reductions in employees’ contributions to social security payments. more specifically, temporary cessation aid would be available for all vessels for up to three months throughout the remainder of 2008, on condition that the vessels in question be included in a restructuring plan. such aid will be tailored to ensure that it supports stock recovery and/or marketing conditions, whenever possible. based on further economic analyses, possible modifications to the de minimis regime for fisheries will also be considered, so that the ceiling of eur 30 000 per three years would be applied per vessel, rather than per firm – though with an overall cap of eur 100 000 per firm. a number of specific initiatives to promote the value of fish at the first point of sale are also envisaged, and the commission is planning to set aside an additional eur 20-25 million from the cfp budget to fund ad hoc projects in this area, in addition to the funds available under the eff. further measures are planned to encourage the shift to energy-saving technologies, cushion the socioeconomic impact of the crisis, and facilitate the reprogramming and the disbursement of eff funds. the above measures will consist of temporary derogations from the rules of the european fisheries fund so as to support faster adaptation of the eu fleet to the present situation and provide temporary relief during the transitional phase. i will be presenting this package to the council of fisheries ministers in luxembourg on 24 june with the intention of adopting a formal proposal on this subject as early as july. given the exceptional situation being faced by the fisheries sector i trust i can count on the support of both the council and the parliament to adopt the said measures as speedily as possible.
the european people's party group has initiated this debate, convinced that our institution could no longer remain indifferent to the gravity of the crisis. i think we were right, because yesterday, for the first time, the commission announced a series of measures which this parliament had been calling for for years, some of which are exactly the same as those contained in the joint motion for a resolution. as we pointed out in the report, diesel prices for fishermen have risen by more than 300% over the last five years and by more than 38% since january, while prices have remained at the level of 20 years ago, with declines in some cases of up to 25%, due to the massive influx of imports, in many cases from illegal fishing. my group has insisted that no sector can survive under these conditions and that is why it wanted to bring everyone together today, the council and the commission, so that we can be informed about this and discuss the package of measures. we are particularly pleased that the measures include finally the increase in de minimis aid to eur 100 000, although we would have preferred it to be granted per ship and not per undertaking, as this parliament has asked and as we have expressed in the joint resolution. we are very much in favour of reducing social security contributions, of the announcement of the flexibility of the european fisheries fund (eff) so that all those who want to can opt for the restructuring of companies or the replacement of engines with more efficient ones or additional aid, as you have indicated, for temporary stoppage. we believe, however, commissioner, that there are other measures which would have deserved the same emphasis and the same level of development as those aimed at restructuring the sector, and i am referring to market measures such as the reform of the cmo so that fishermen have a greater role in price formation, or more specific measures on labelling and, above all, measures which demonstrate a clear will on the part of the council and the commission to combat illegal fishing.
on behalf of the pse group. i am also pleased and happy about the measures announced by the commission, and i think that in some cases they go even further than what parliament is asking for in its motion for a resolution. the fact that we have found a place to discuss this matter in this very busy house gives an idea of the importance which this house attaches to it. in these somewhat turbulent times, i believe that europeans should face this crisis together through an effective and fair mechanism, such as the much-requested flexibility of the european fisheries fund (eff), which would allow urgent measures to be taken at community level. national solutions such as those proposed by some member states would only contribute to creating situations of inequality. we hope, commissioner, that at the council of ministers meeting next monday the commission will be able to specify further, and to agree with the council of ministers, how the eff can be used to help the most affected fleet segments. it seems also urgent to investigate once and for all the mechanism of price formation.
mr president, on the initiative of my group and with the support of all, we are discussing the serious crisis in the fisheries sector and we are doing so separately from the general oil crisis, because, although the price of diesel fuel has aggravated this crisis, it has been only the last straw. the crisis is deeper and requires urgent treatment. to save the sector, the commission, the council and the member states must, by common agreement, adopt a programme which meets these ten commandments, as i have learnt from this debate. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the fisheries sector, including: first, more control of illegal imports; second, more control of legal imports; third, reform of the common fisheries policy to raise prices for fishermen at first sale; fourth, reorientation of aid from the european fisheries fund; fifth, reprogramming of state operational programmes; sixth, paying and increasing de minimis aid per vessel - the commission seems to have understood this, congratulations, but this proposal must be improved because it is not yet exactly as we want it to be -; seventh, adoption of tax aid; eighth, adoption of social aid; ninth, more transparency and guarantees for consumers, labelling and traceability; and tenth, consumer promotion and support campaigns for the sector. these 10 commandments are summed up in two: pay and help our fishermen more and punish offenders. mr commissioner, mr president-in-office, either we do this now or we are literally taking over the fisheries sector of the european union. i know that commissioner borg is conscientious and is doing what he can, but i think we should help to improve that proposal. i hope that the council will do the same next week and that we will take advantage of the french presidency, which is leading this reform, to be able to carry it out. let us seize the opportunities, for time is short.
mr president, the european union's relationship with russia must be constructive, but also demanding. it is a member of the council of europe, as we are, and must therefore respect its principles and values. i welcome president medvedev's recent emphasis on the importance of human rights and the rule of law. the european union and russia have great potential for a relationship and we are now faced with the challenge of negotiating the new partnership and cooperation agreement, which will allow for faster progress in the so-called 'four common spaces'. i would like to stress the importance of one of these areas: economic relations. more than half of russia's trade is with the union. the creation of an integrated market with more transparent and non-discriminatory rules will intensify and diversify economic and trade relations between russia and the european union. in addition, it is essential to increase legal certainty in russia. ladies and gentlemen, moscow is a key player on the international stage. as a permanent member of the security council, its cooperation is necessary to achieve peace and stability in europe and the world. for our part, we need a united attitude of the 27 in relations with russia. all the analysts, recently mark leonard, in an interesting study, stress that the absence of a united position is detrimental to the union... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, first of all i would like to welcome mr tajani in his new capacity as transport commissioner, and i hope that we can cooperate well with him and improve, especially in road safety matters, as he has stated. secondly, i would like to warmly congratulate mr markov and thank him for his tenacity and patience in pursuing and achieving this agreement. it is true that it is still insufficient, but it is really satisfactory in view of the risk of a definitive blockade. i think, in that sense, mr markov, we should be moderately happy, but happy. as you have very well said, it is a small step, but it is a first step, and in road safety we are used to being patient and gradually winning small victories that vindicate all the victims of road accidents and their families. we have believed from the beginning that this text was necessary, that it would complete the virtuous circle of the fight against road accidents: after the speed limitation rules, the rules on the presence of alcohol in the blood, the rules on the need to change the attitude of drivers, the rules on protection in cars, it was now necessary to point out the black spots on the european road network. i am therefore pleased that we have included in this procedure the sufficient and safe parking places which we have called for in other texts and which, in my view, have a significant presence in this one. i am also pleased that we have succeeded in having the safety barriers and safeguards clearly defined in the procedure, which prevent injuries and deaths in vulnerable users, such as motorists, because their increase today is precisely the result of new accidents. i also welcome the importance and emphasis given to all vulnerable users in particular and the special emphasis on the level steps, as these should be taken into account in the audits. i would also like to say, finally, that there is an element of the future in the introduction of intelligent and interactive signalling that will be developed and that will certainly have a great impact on road safety in the future. i also welcome the emphasis on training auditors. i think it's an important career field for the future.
mr president, the european sheep sector has been in a deep crisis for several years now, and as has been said, it is heading for extinction. the traditional low profitability of this sector has been aggravated by the rise in the price of feed and the very significant decline in the consumption of these products. the report by mr aylward correctly characterizes the sector, points out its decisive importance for fixing population in the most sensitive and vulnerable territories and for maintaining the natural environment in which it develops. it seems clear that neither the market nor the current cap aid will be enough to maintain this sector, especially since the current regulatory costs for production make us less competitive with imported products, which do not have similar requirements. if we do not act, these farms are at serious risk of disappearing and with them one of the most important, if not the only, economic activity in many rural areas of europe, which will pose a serious problem of land management. my group supports the rapporteur's report and if we have tabled amendments, it is only to improve it. we are not only concerned about the traditional breeds, we believe they are endangered, but what is endangered is this livestock activity itself. and although mr smith seems to believe that there are only sheep in scotland, there are sheep in spain too. we are in fact the second largest producer, as has already been said, after the united kingdom, and we believe that the electronic identification system is the only one that guarantees the traceability of the herds and the only one that will allow the eu label to be fully reliable. my group calls for community funding mechanisms to facilitate their implementation on schedule. we also want the commission to include in the strategy for this sector the recovery of professions such as shepherds, milchers and shearers, which are disappearing.
mr president, i would like to warmly congratulate my colleague, mrs gurmai, on her enthusiasm in turning this 'fantastic car' of our youth into a real car for the european future. it is certainly the technology that is being discussed, and with all the proposals that she is making in her owninitiative report, something that will help us to continue to make progress in the logistics development, which the european union is currently engaged in. i also believe that, following the agreement reached on galileo and the current deployment situation, this initiative on the smart car will be precisely one of the aspects which will help to give substance to the galileo project in that deployment. yesterday, without going any further, we adopted the directive on safety in infrastructure, which already raised the need to provide for intelligent and interactive systems between infrastructure and vehicles. if we already have the infrastructure, we obviously lack that intelligent vehicle. in the case of traffic offences, the smart car will also help us to improve prevention and control, especially with regard to interaction with traffic lights, speed limits or alcohol-blocking measures. in road safety, of course, everything about mass sensors for pedestrians and other vulnerable users will be fundamental. as for the esafety system, which is certainly too late, commissioner, we have already raised the need for it to be included not only in premium vehicles but also in vehicles of all ranges, which mrs gurmai supports being put into operation as soon as possible. but we also envisaged including it in vehicles for professional use, especially agricultural vehicles, where the driver's isolation makes the consequences of any accident worse with the passage of time. i ask you, commissioner, when will we be able to consider the use of this esafety system also in commercial vehicles and, essentially, in agricultural vehicles? for all this, however, we need that smart car to be a car accessible to all and that these technologies be properly supported to make them cheaper and accessible, not only to the countries that need them most, but to all european citizens.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that thanks to the work of parliament, thanks to the text of the communication drawn up by commissioner reding, whom i am replacing, but also to the excellent work of mrs gurmai, we have today sent an important signal to the citizens who are listening to us in the gallery, but who ideally represent the half billion european citizens, that the institutions are close to the citizens and seek to respond to the needs of the citizens, which must be our first priority, parliament, the council and the commission. only in this way will we bring the people, the peoples of europe, closer to the institutions. the best answer we can give to those who are sceptical, to those who voted no in the referendums, is to show that europe is close to the citizens, we must give a positive message, we must have the courage to go forward and make it clear that the people, the needs of the citizens are our first priority, and i therefore gladly accept your invitation, mr president. the road safety issue will be, as far as i am concerned, and as far as the directorate-general which is under the commissioner for transport is concerned, the priority - i said that in the course of the speech which then led me to have the confidence of this parliament, which i thank again, after having been a member for so many years, for the confidence accorded to me - that is, the safety of the citizens: the person must be at the centre of our initiative. i listened with great interest to the whole debate, there was a real desire on the part of the institutions today to give answers, to save human lives, every human life that we have been able to save thanks to our legislative action, thanks to our commitment will be a meritorious work that will be recognized. that is why we must move forward, and that is why i share the view of so many members who have stressed the importance of intelligent tools and machines today, but we must first make sure that people are intelligent, because the first responsibility is that of the citizen behind the wheel, who must know that there are other citizens whose lives depend on his behaviour. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is otherwise pointless to spend public money on research or even private money if the discoveries that are made, if the initiatives that are achieved are not put at the service of the citizens and to save so many human lives. that is why, i repeat, road safety will be a priority - and i am making a solemn commitment to this house - it will be one of the major commitments, i repeat, that we as the commission and the transport sector will have in the coming months. i also wanted to reply briefly to mr pribetich's question on the timing. on the basis of the results of a consultation opened on 23 may 2008, the european commission proposed a regulation on type-approval requirements for the general safety of motor vehicles, which provides for new electronic stability control systems to be fitted on board motor vehicles from 2012 onwards in order to significantly improve the safety of the vehicles themselves. the regulation refers to the technical regulations harmonized within the framework of the world forum of the united nations economic commission for europe. i also reply to mrs ayala sender that, as regards heavy vehicles, in november 2007 the unece world forum for the harmonization of vehicle regulations approved a text on the mandatory fitting of the esc and the technical standards relating to it. the text has received the support of the european commission, which means that the esc will become mandatory on new types of the most common categories of heavy vehicles from 2010. as regards the commercial vehicles to which you referred, especially those in the agricultural sector - unfortunately there are still deaths in europe as a result of accidents caused by agricultural vehicles, sometimes by the irresponsibility of the driver who is not driving well, but there are - nothing is planned for the time being, because priority has been given to motor vehicles and heavy vehicles. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, but i would like to ask him to make a few comments on the proposal. in the agricultural sector, i repeat, there are still many deaths which are not deaths on the roads, but deaths on agricultural land, but we cannot pretend that this is not a problem. that is why, mr president, i thank you for your suggestion, and i thank all the members who have spoken, i repeat, the commission, and i conclude, mr president, and i apologize if i have stolen a few more minutes, but i think this subject is so important that we can also overcome the bureaucratic rules related to time. i said that we welcome the report by mrs gurmai, and i thank her again for her enthusiasm, because we must show enthusiasm when we are committed to defending the rights of citizens. we welcome the encouragement of parliament, the support given to the ecall system and the actions to promote its implementation, so i believe that today's debate will in my view conclude positively because the commission, parliament and, i hope, the council too, mr president, have agreed to stand by the citizens in an attempt to save as many lives as possible.
you had one minute, not two, mr. evans. we take note of the idea mr evans has always thrown at us. however, before we adjourn the sitting, i do want to share with our colleagues and the commissioner the good news that the house of lords of such an important country as the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland ratified the treaty of lisbon a few hours ago. we assume that queen elizabeth is currently signing the relevant document, so that the united kingdom, by this action, ratifies the treaty of lisbon and i think that is news that fills us with happiness, even those who are not present, although they leave the flag on their seat, but who, when it comes to work, are not usually present in the chamber. with this news, happy for all, we end this debate. the vote will take place at 12 noon. (the sitting was suspended at 11.30 a.m. and resumed at 12 noon)
madam president, amendment no 37 has been withdrawn and therefore there is no vote on it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is u win tin, a prominent journalist and leader of the national league for democracy. u win tin is the longest serving prisoner of conscience in burma. he has been in prison for 19 consecutive years, since july 1989. he was sentenced three times to 21 years in prison, and we only know of his detention through the latest report on the conditions of burmese prisoners by mr yozo yokota, the united nations special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in burma. u win tin has refused to give up his political ideals in exchange for his release. he was also admitted to hospital this year for a second hernia operation in january 2008. this is just one example of the 1,873 political prisoners currently held in burma's prisons. obviously, in this resolution we also want to express our condemnation of the extension of house arrest to daw aung san suu kyi. my group demands immediate action to start an urgent and necessary process of political and economic reforms. first, the release of all political prisoners. secondly, the restoration of basic civil liberties and, of course, the opening of a political dialogue between all the parties. we also reiterate our call on the council to take strong action against the burmese military junta, which has now become the world champion of human rights violations.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the gulf is not worsened. i have asked the european union to set up a community system of coordination and mutual assistance to enable military vessels flying the flag of a member state in international waters to protect, at the earliest possible opportunity, merchant and fishing vessels of other member states. but in addition to the above, i would like to denounce categorically the trade in arms and ammunition with organized gangs and paramilitary factions. my group would like to ask the relevant international and regional organisations to recommend appropriate preventive measures to prevent weapons from reaching these groups. my group would also like to ask the donor countries, and in particular the european union, to honour their commitments and to ensure close coordination beforehand in order to increase the effectiveness of development aid. we would also like to ask the commission here to propose a rapid and substantial increase in the financial resources granted by the european union to somalia, particularly on the occasion of the mid-term review of the 10th european development fund, as well as an increase in its physical presence in that country. i would like to ask the commission what it is doing or whether it is going to do anything about this. obviously, i cannot end my speech without making a call - as this resolution does - to all somali factions to end one of the longest and most destructive armed conflicts in recent years.
mr president, i rise to refer to a single issue, piracy in somali waters. some of the speakers - i think mr kaczmarek and mrs tomaszewska have mentioned this issue and the joint motion for a resolution refers to it in recital g and paragraph 8 - but i would point out that, as paragraph 8 is worded, action against piracy is limited to the defence of ships carrying humanitarian aid, so it is appropriate to separate this part and vote against the final part. and finally, i would like to ask the commission if there is any new information on possible action by the european union, in coordination with the security council, to ensure maritime safety in that area.
the author. - mr president, it is a fact that the human rights situation in iran has been deteriorating dramatically since 2005. iran's judicial system has the sad record of becoming the second country with the highest number of executions per capita in the world. in total numbers, only china executes more people than iran. two important treaties, as mentioned in the resolution, the convention on the rights of the child and the international covenant on civil and political rights, prohibit capital punishment as a punishment for crimes committed when the perpetrator was under 18. and, the most serious thing - it is positive, but it does not respect them - is that tehran has ratified both conventions. murder, rape, armed robbery, kidnapping or drug trafficking are crimes punishable by death in iran. most of the children were convicted of murder, but, nevertheless, there are many sentences that appear to be based on unreliable confessions, extracted from torture and interrogations in which detainees were denied their right to access a lawyer. courts routinely ignore evidence presented by defense attorneys, proving that the defendants acted in self-defense. the execution of minors in iran will be one of the topics included in the report of the un secretary-general ban ki-moon to the general assembly in september. we therefore call on iran to put an end, once and for all, to these executions, including those of at least 85 more people who remain on death row for crimes committed when they were minors. i would not like to end without saying that i think that this week we have lost some moral strength as a parliament and as the european union in defending the rights of minors, especially since yesterday this house adopted a shameful directive which allows minors to be detained for the sole offence of having come to europe without papers.
mr president, the socialist group had proposed a split vote on paragraph 8, with the intention of voting against the second part, because the final phrase 'humanitarian ships' limited the content. with the amendment tabled by mr matsakis, we would not have to vote in parts, but we could vote on the text together, so i propose that the oral amendment be accepted and that we vote on paragraph 8 without division.
mr president, the roma people - one of the oldest peoples in europe - deserve attention from the european union, which they have not received until now. what is being applied in italy at the moment is certainly intolerable and provokes the greatest rejection because of what it means by legislation based on race, which criminalizes a certain ethnic group. but it must be made clear that it is not enough to stop this practice as if, by stopping what we are now criticizing, we have solved the problem. i'm not going! there are behind it, and this is true and must be denounced, serious and obvious social problems which have been neglected for too long by some governments and which have been ignored by the european commission itself, which had the powers to react to them. we need a european policy, commitments, resources, initiatives and measures to match what we have at hand. the commission must be proactive in the social integration of the roma and the roma people. there are positive examples throughout europe (in spain, for example, in the field of education). there are, even if we still have unresolved issues. we have all spent many hours talking about european citizenship and it is time we knew that this citizenship applies to everyone, regardless of their race.
the rapporteur's alternate. - mr president, i am going to speak on behalf of the rapporteur, mrs doyle. i apologize on his behalf for not being able to be present, as he is currently moving to strasbourg. mrs doyle welcomes the commitment to the council on this much needed package of food enrichment. enzymes are added to food to perform a wide range of technological functions in the manufacture, processing, preparation, treatment, packaging, transportation or storage of food. it is most commonly used in bakery, for brewing, in cheese production and in the production of alcohol and other beverages. they play an increasingly important role in food production and can be used as an alternative to chemicals in improving the texture, appearance, nutritional value and taste of food. they also help in certain production processes. this proposal is in fact the first specific european union legislation to address food enzymes. there are currently no harmonised rules at community level to control the use of enzymes, which not only creates barriers to trade and legal uncertainty but also differing consumer protection standards in the 27 member states. only three member states have their own risk assessment procedures, namely the united kingdom, france and denmark. under the new legislation, which we will be voting on tomorrow, harmonised standards will be established in the european union for the evaluation, approval and control of enzymes used in food. the rapporteur believes that this is very important, as food safety will be improved and choice will be increased, as consumers will have more information about the contents of the food they consume. it is particularly pleased that the council has agreed that the two authorisation procedures for any substance produced from genetically modified organisms can be carried out simultaneously and that the dual authorisation of these products is thus avoided. it is also very pleased that the council has accepted parliament's wish to have a single legal basis, namely article 95 of the internal market treaty, as it proposed in its amendment at first reading. in addition, it is particularly useful for the industry that the council has provided for a transitional period of one year from the date of entry into force of the proposed regulation, during which food lawfully marketed or labelled in that year may be marketed until a date of minimum durability or the expiry date. finally, the rapporteur would like to thank her colleagues for their support and cooperation, in particular mrs westlund and mrs drčar murko and all the alternative rapporteurs, as well as the slovenian presidency for their hard work. we have successfully coordinated four legislative proposals and will therefore improve the single market in this area which promotes european innovation and competitiveness while ensuring a high level of food safety and environmental protection.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would first like to thank parliament, and especially the three rapporteurs – mrs drčar murko, mrs doyle and mrs westlund – for the considerable efforts they have made and the time they devoted to this important legislative package. in particular, i appreciate the efforts to keep the proposals together as a package, therefore achieving a consistent approach on these similar cases. this legislative package makes an important contribution to the commission’s simplification programme. it provides for harmonisation within the respective fields and also promotes consistency between the three areas. the common authorisation procedure will establish a system for assessing and authorising additives, enzymes and flavourings in a consistent manner. this is of major importance for consumer safety and the competitiveness of the food industry. the operators would, in particular, benefit fully from the advantage of a centralised, transparent and time-limited procedure. in relation to the proposal on food additives, the regulation of such substances is important to ensure the safety of food and also to ensure that the consumer is not misled. these criteria, along with the evidence of technological need for the use of food additives, are important prerequisites for the use of food additives. although these principles are established in the current legislation, i welcome the changes and additional clarifications that have been introduced to strengthen these important aspects. it is also a requirement that the legislation is kept up to date in the light of scientific and technological developments. in this regard i can, in particular, support the amendments which have been introduced following efsa’s evaluation of the results of the southampton study. these will require labelling of the possible adverse effects on children’s behaviour which has been associated with certain food colours. this labelling will ensure that adequate information is provided to consumers who may wish to avoid these colours. during the discussions on this proposal, there has also been some concern about the possible allergenic effects of some food colours which are commonly referred to as ‘azo colours’. specific procedures and legislation apply to potentially allergenic foods and i can, therefore, state very clearly that the commission will request the european food safety authority to explicitly address the potential allergenic effects of azo colours during the re-evaluation of these food additives. if necessary as a result of this re-evaluation the commission will consider taking appropriate action to amend annex iii, part a, to european parliament and council directive 2000/13/ec to provide adequate information to consumers suffering from food allergies. in relation to enzymes, enzymes have been used traditionally in the production of foods such as bread, cheese, beer and wine. enzymes can improve the texture, the appearance and the nutritional value of food, and can be used as alternatives to chemical-based technology. up until now, the legislation on food enzymes has not been fully harmonised in the eu and, as a consequence, this lack of harmonisation has created barriers to trade and hindered growth in this field. the successful conclusion of this proposed regulation will bridge the current regulatory gap by creating harmonised rules for the scientific evaluation, authorisation and use of food enzymes in the community. i would like to welcome the changes that strengthen the precautionary principle and the criterion of not misleading the consumer, which are underlying principles of the proposed regulation. i also welcome the change that clarifies further the interplay between the regulation on enzymes and the gm food and feed legislation. in relation to flavourings, the proposal offers high protection for the consumer while allowing the industry to continue to develop new flavourings and new applications, in order to respond to the increasing consumer demand for more convenient foods. the framework will enable the european industry to maintain and consolidate its leading position in the global market. flavourings are used to impart or modify odour and/or taste of foods for the benefit of the consumer. the use of flavourings should not mislead the consumer about the nature or quality of his or her food. the new rules for the labelling of flavourings will indeed better inform the consumer and help to avoid the consumer being mislead. during the discussions, there were differences of view on the need to include spices and herbs in the scope of the regulation. the commission welcomes the agreement that has been found which will improve consumer protection and at the same time takes into the account possible impact on traditional uses. i have listened carefully to mrs drčar murko and i wish to assure her and also confirm that from the entry into force of the regulation the commission will carefully monitor, based on information provided by the member states, the development in the respective use of spices and herbs and natural flavouring extracts. with this information, and taking into account the latest scientific developments with respect to toxicological concern and consumer exposure, it will, if appropriate, propose amendments to annex iii, part b.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mrs drčar murko, on the hard work she has put in, and the other alternative rapporteurs, as well as the slovenian presidency and the commission, on their willingness to negotiate an agreement on this report at second reading. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs on the other reports in the package, mrs westlund and mrs doyle, and the alternative rapporteurs for their collaboration in finding solutions to the horizontal problems raised by these proposals. the most contentious issue raised in this flavour proposal, from the beginning of the debate, has been the biologically active ingredients naturally present in herbs and spices, which posed a major problem for the producers of herbs and spices, as they were faced with the impossibility of meeting the requirements of the proposal, given the special nature of their products: different places of collection, times of the year when they were collected, dietary habits in different countries, etc. i would like to point out that my group has always sought to protect the consumer. i therefore welcome the agreement reached with the council and the commission that maximum levels will not apply to certain substances where a compound food contains no added flavourings and the only food ingredients with flavouring properties that have been added are fresh, dried or frozen herbs and spices. finally, i would like to welcome the fact that these legislative proposals on the food enrichment package will be adopted tomorrow, because this will not only mean updating the legislation but also that the risks of marketing flavourings will be assessed, which will mean a great deal of protection for european consumers.
mr president, this is an interesting debate, because i heard the rapporteur say that the inspiration for his reform was mr bonde, who, like mr rodrigo díaz de vivar, el cid campeador, won battles after he was dead. but mrs dahl, who has replaced mr bonde, comes in and compares the rapporteur with kafka, which is a very good comparison, by the way. and then mr batten confessed to us that they used the money of the parliamentary group to interfere in the national referendums. i imagine the quaestors will have something to say, mr. batten, because it's forbidden to use that money for such cases. what about mr voggenhuber? what about mr voggenhuber, who comes from that country which has so splendidly organised the european cup, and which we spaniards are so happy about? mr voggenhuber has accused us of manipulation; he has criticised the amendment on the transaction, and it turns out that he signed it himself. finally, mr president, for reasons of consistency and in agreement with what mr szájer, mr kirkhope, mrs esteves and mr rübig have said, the group of the european people's party will vote in favour.
mr president, the rapporteur does not need anyone to defend him; he is defending himself, i have no doubt, but i must say that i have asked to speak because i think that some of the speeches, mr president, have been overstepped. it seems to me that there is a need for debate and arguments in this house. i have just heard mr graefe zu baringdorf speak and we always disagree here, but it seems to me that certain qualifications, certain insults and certain caricatures in the end do harm to this institution and, above all, to its authors themselves, mr president. since we are in france, i think it was a french writer who said that "everything excessive is worthless". there was some intervention today that was worthless. we appreciate what mr corbett has done, which has been nothing but a reflection of what a group of vice-presidents of this house, where all the groups of this house are represented, do. the rules of procedure have reflected this, we have discussed it with him and we greatly appreciate the work he is doing.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr libicki, chairman of the committee on petitions. it is true that we are dealing with a citizens' petition, representing thousands of people concerned about the construction of a gas pipeline from russia to germany. above all, one must question the bilateral nature of the russian-german agreement, involving companies like gazprom and e.on, to build one of the longest gas pipelines in the world. it is intended to be built in the middle of the baltic sea, to prevent it from passing through polish territory and the baltic countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the various bilateral energy agreements with russia with little coordination with the european union are also bad news for a strong european foreign policy that speaks with one voice. the proposed project crosses a fragile sea, polluted by toxic products and with very limited natural renewal. the consequences of any accident would be catastrophic for all the countries bordering the river. first of all, we must demand the decisive application of the precautionary principle, with a thorough environmental assessment that also considers all alternatives and strict compliance with all international standards. the best way to guarantee our energy security is to have a coordinated european policy with high environmental standards.
ladies and gentlemen, we have given the floor to ten speakers, exceptionally, because we normally give the floor to five at the most. there are a few members who have asked to speak. i would remind you that you can submit your contribution in writing, which would naturally be included in the minutes.
- the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr andré brie, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the stabilisation of afghanistan: challenges for the eu and the international community [2007/2208 (ini) ] (a6-0269/2008).
mr president, in june more international soldiers died in afghanistan than in iraq. in june, the taliban's presence and power in the pakistani city of peshawar, a key city in the conflict, became increasingly evident. in pakistan it is claimed that its armed forces have reached secret peace agreements with the afghan and pakistani taliban leadership and that the pakistani army seems to be more concerned about the indian border than the afghan one. and yesterday, as several speakers have already commented, in the heart of kabul, forty people were killed outside the indian embassy. i wonder if it is not time to consider a different strategy.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission thanks mr duff for his report. we support parliament’s decision to reform the hearing procedure in a way that will further increase the transparency and the democratic legitimacy of the appointment procedure by establishing clear, transparent and uniform procedures and evaluation criteria. however, the commission considers that the procedures to be applied in the different cases covered by the report have to fully respect the relevant provisions of the treaties, notably article 215, and of the framework agreement, so as to reflect the legal and institutional differences between them. specifically the procedures applied for portfolio reshuffles should be lighter than those applied for approving the whole commission, and should respect the prerogatives of the president of the european commission for the allocation of portfolios. we believe that this is in the interest of both institutions. furthermore, the commission is legally bound by the treaties and the framework agreement and therefore reserves its right to agree the relevant procedures to be applied in each of the different scenarios on a case-by-case basis and in a constructive spirit of cooperation, as has so far been the case. this approach has proved successful for both institutions.
all right, thank you, mr sterckx. i'll see you in a bit. i don't see it because it's on my back, you know? let's see, the services tell me that we have a problem, indeed, with the electronic count and therefore, please be patient for a few seconds until it is resolved. - before the vote on amendment 50.
let's see, as long as the big screen doesn't work, i'll read the numbers, okay? that way you'll be at ease. (the vote was suspended for a few minutes to repair the screens showing the results of the votes)
i cannot remember. if you say so, ok.
the explanatory vote is closed.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president, commissioner, madam president-in-office of the council, we in the committee on the environment welcome in principle the european strategic plan for energy technology insofar as it contributes to the shaping of a common energy market, to the shaping of support for the lisbon strategy and, above all, to the fight against climate change. we also find the consultation process that has taken place very positive and we believe that it should continue to be maintained. we regret, however, that it is focusing more on supply-side measures than on demand reduction, particularly through energy saving and efficiency, and we call for these aspects of energy saving and efficiency to be strengthened. to this end, we call for a hierarchy of european industrial initiatives where efforts are concentrated on those with the greatest potential for reducing emissions in the short term, 20% by 2020, without, of course, compromising the long term, in order to achieve the 2050 target. in these priorities, we also think that the life cycle of each technology and its environmental impact on production must be taken into account and that transfer to developing economies must also be considered to reduce the technology gap. we also believe that it is necessary to extend industrial initiatives to other sectors with potential for reducing emissions, such as cogeneration, hydrogen, the housing construction sector, heating and cooling systems, and also the improvement of energy storage and distribution infrastructures. finally, we would like to say that we believe that the funds for these technologies should be part of the discussion on the future of the financing of european policies and, to do so, we should require the member states to increase their efforts at least to the same extent as they did in response to the energy crisis of the 1980s.
mr president, tomorrow we shall vote on the second and final part of the third legislative package on the liberalisation of the energy market, that is to say, the part concerning the gas sector. this parliament has always maintained that the gas market is a different reality from that of electricity, since it is not the same thing for a sector which controls all its areas of activity, from generation to final distribution, as for one which is subject to strong geopolitical pressures at the extraction and production stage and which only controls transport and final sale. that is why a large majority in this house was and is of the opinion that we must propose an alternative and additional solution to the separation of gas ownership. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. those of us in favour of property separation have always said that we could accept an alternative that was credible and would guarantee the same results. i think that with this commitment to gas we have succeeded in formulating it properly. we know that there are supporters of the alternative path proposed by the council who are opposed to the trustee and who will propose a separate vote. let me say that without this figure, the alternative in question will not be a real alternative to the separation of property, but a legal formula to allow some member states to be more equal than others in opening up their markets. this possibility, of course, does not seem very consistent. finally, i would like to give my full support to the paparizov report on the gas regulation and to thank mr paparizov for the excellent cooperation we have had during the first reading.
mr president, commissioners, madam president-in-office of the council, i shall begin with the european strategic plan for energy technology, congratulating mr buzek and thanking him for the incorporation of amendments from my group which we consider to be fundamental. we want to express our satisfaction with the way we have jointly approached financing, a shared concern in such a major plan. the commission has also taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the implementation of the programme. it is very important that we have succeeded in giving greater prominence to technologies that make it possible to increase energy efficiency and to research as a whole, making full use of the potential offered by the european research area. the report reinforces the research and basic sciences needed to advance energy technologies and calls on the private sector to invest more in research and take more risks to put the european union at the forefront of this sector. it should also improve the transfer of technology, a commitment to be undertaken by the new european institute of innovation and technology, and establish greater coordination with the member states and other community instruments to strengthen research, development and innovation capacity in these areas. coordination should be extended to all fields involved in r & d in energy technologies, given their multidisciplinary nature, especially information and communication technologies. as regards gas, it should be noted that liquefied natural gas installations and their storage infrastructure, provided they are interconnected with the transmission networks, are complementary installations which play a key role in ensuring access for new operators and in speeding up the creation of a genuine european internal market. it seems logical, then, to treat all of them in the same way. in this context, and on the basis of the 'one-stop-shop' principle which we advocate in this house, a combined operator of independent infrastructures is the most effective option. dealing with a single operator makes it easier for users to access gas infrastructure, as they will encounter similar codes and contracts, the same level of transparency and the possibility to group services. that is the meaning of the three amendments which we are maintaining in the house, and for which i ask my colleagues to vote in favour.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, for lack of time i have not been able to thank the rapporteur, mr buzek, for his generosity in including the proposals which were made by the committee on the environment, particularly those relating to energy efficiency, the life cycle of the various forms of energy and, in particular, those relating to human resources and training and cooperation with developing countries. i would therefore like to express my gratitude to mr buzek, which i was unable to do earlier because of the time constraints.
acting president of the council. - madam president, mr president-in-office, mr vice-president of the commission, the issues raised by the sovereign wealth funds have been perfectly addressed by mrs beres. i would like to add a few other reasons why they are debating; there is, of course, the surge they've taken in recent years. i would remind you that they now manage between 2200 and 300 000 billion euros, according to the imf. but we must also ask about their investment strategies, the transparency and clarity of these strategies and, possibly, the emergence of new funds. in october 2007, the g7 finance ministers called on the imf and the oecd to address these issues. in response to these calls, the institutions i have just mentioned set to work by targeting, respectively, for the imf, the countries on which sovereign funds depend, and for the oecd, the recipient countries. the imf has conducted a survey of current fund practices, organized a round table mainly devoted to these issues and set up an international working group of 25 fund countries to prepare a report, which is expected to be submitted by the end of october this year. the objective is to develop best practices that sovereign wealth funds would freely adopt, in particular in terms of transparency, investment strategies and governance. in this respect it can be noted that the norwegian government pension fund has been designated by many as the benchmark in this field. for the oecd, the focus was on best practice for the recipient countries. the oecd ministers adopted a declaration a few weeks ago. the work will now continue in the investment committee, which will address, inter alia, the peer review of policy developments and broader reflection on foreign government controlled investments. i now come to the community level. as you know, the commission presented a communication in february 2008 entitled 'a common european approach to sovereign wealth funds'. in its communication the commission states that no further community legislation is necessary, but it advocates a common european approach based on cooperation between the countries receiving sovereign funds, the funds themselves and those holding them, in order to establish, i quote, 'a set of principles guaranteeing the transparency, predictability and justification of investments by sovereign funds'. a common approach recommended by the commission should be based on five principles: commitment to openness to investment, support for multilateral actions, use of existing instruments, respect for obligations under the european treaties and international commitments and, finally, proportionality and transparency. it is important to emphasize that the commission's communication makes the common european approach complementary to the prerogatives enjoyed by the member states in the application of their national legislation. the council examined this communication on 4 march and submitted a report to the spring european council. the council generally accepted the ideas put forward by the commission, but wished to give them a different flavour in the light of two principles. firstly, rather than speaking in terms of support for the multilateral approach in general, he wanted to speak specifically about the work being done at the imf and the oecd, which i have just mentioned. secondly, rather than referring to the use of existing instruments, and also in a somewhat general way, the council thought it more appropriate to adopt the use of national and, if necessary, union instruments as a basic principle. to be quite complete, it should also be noted that the question of sovereign funds was discussed at the meeting of the transatlantic economic council, which commissioner verheugen is familiar with, held in washington on 9 november 2007. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. this is also true for other major recipients of sovereign funds outside the european union. of course, such national measures cannot be in contradiction with the common european approach advocated by the commission on the basis of the principles i have just indicated, and supported by the european council. national measures must be considered in the context of a common european approach, which they would complement. i think this is in line with mrs beres' concerns. the coordination of national measures is one of the cornerstones of the common european approach advocated by the commission. as you have suggested, an analysis of existing initiatives in the member states will probably be necessary in order to effectively implement such coordination and to ensure that it does not interfere with national prerogatives and competences in the field of protection. such an analysis of european practices could well draw on the results of the peer monitoring, which will be conducted - as i said earlier - by the oecd investment committee. as regards article 58, which you ask about, it confirms that member states have the right to take measures justified on grounds of public policy or public security. but to the council's knowledge, this article has never been invoked in the context of sovereign wealth funds investments. as for the possible need to clarify this provision, i will simply note that the treaty of lisbon has not changed it. in conclusion, the council wishes to address the role of the european union in international fora. it is clear from the commission communication already mentioned that we are and will be actively involved in the work of the imf, the oecd and other actors. the international nature of sovereign funds makes it obvious that europe must cooperate with the other beneficiary countries on the one hand and with sovereign funds and those on which they depend on the other. the union should therefore actively promote the work of the multilateral organizations i have mentioned, and not simply follow the discussions as a silent observer. the spring european council therefore endorsed the ideas put forward by the commission. in particular, it expressly supported the ongoing work to achieve international agreement on a code of conduct to which sovereign wealth funds would freely subscribe and which would set out principles applicable to recipient countries at international level. the european council added that the union should aim to contribute to this ongoing debate in a coordinated manner and invited the commission and the council to continue their work in this direction. the council intends to continue along this path. on the question you asked in fine about relations with financial issues related to oil, as was stressed today at the g8, we are fully aware of the importance of issues related to the resolution of global imbalances. some emerging countries, particularly oil exporters, have large current account surpluses. it is crucial that adjustments occur, including through sufficient currency appreciation. these issues are of course being followed with the greatest attention in the g7-g8 but also in the imf with, of course, the participation of the member states of the european union.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. state-owned funds have become important players in the global financial system and have rightly been increasingly in the public eye in recent times. the european commission therefore set out in the communication of february, as already mentioned, how we think europe should deal with this. the european council at its spring meeting indicated its full support for the approach proposed by the commission. the starting point is simple: the european union is the largest exporter of direct investment and, conversely, attracts a lot of it. we want that, too. investment and openness are among the most important drivers of growth and employment in europe. we cannot and should not back down, but stand by our commitment to an open investment environment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they are responsible and reliable investors with a long-term and stable approach, which has proved to be very successful in the recent turbulence in financial markets. the funds have provided capital when it was most needed. we also have no evidence at this stage that sovereign wealth funds have a negative effect on exchange rates. there is no particular indication that sovereign wealth funds are converting from us dollars to euros, and they are not yet moving at a scale that would have a major impact on the development of international exchange rates. the number and size of these funds are increasing rapidly. the patterns of investment are changing. the geopolitical map of the countries setting up these funds is also changing. the extent and quality of the information that the funds provide to the market varies greatly from fund to fund, and therefore there is a concern that the investments of these funds may give too much political leverage to the foreign governments involved, and this is a concern that we must take seriously. if the funds are transparent and follow clear accounting rules, the fact that they are government investment instruments should not be a cause for concern. what we need is confidence in the purely economic nature of their goals, and that's why transparency and corporate governance are the key factors. the commission's communication outlines some of the options. regulation is hardly the answer. in the single market, all investors must comply with the same competition, internal market and labour law rules. any rules adopted by the member states in respect of foreign investment for the protection of public security and public order must respect community standards. but, mrs berès, i want to make it clear that the member states have the right to adopt such rules, and most of them have done so for a long time. the commission will monitor this closely, but no specific review is currently planned. moreover, a review of investment in sensitive sectors at eu level would have to take into account all sources of investment, not just state funds. we certainly agree that there are other funds that we are more concerned about than sovereign wealth funds and that we cannot talk to as easily about transparency and corporate governance. it is quite clear that we cannot work with a narrow european approach to a global issue, we must seek an international, global approach. the commission believes that a code of conduct, developed jointly by the beneficiary countries and the funds themselves at global level, is the best way forward. a voluntary code of conduct setting central standards for governance and transparency would provide greater clarity on the functioning of the funds. since the european council in march signalled its support for this approach, the european commission has been actively involved in the work of the imf and the oecd on the definition of best practices. progress is being made in both organizations. i can say that the outlines of a solution are emerging and that we have a strong and unified european approach to pursue. we must not forget that this is a two-way process. it is in everyone's interest to clarify this. for the funds, this would mean stability and reduce the risk of setbacks. for the economies in which the funds invest, a stable, predictable and non-discriminatory one eliminates the risk that these important investors will vote with their feet, that is, leave europe and invest elsewhere. we will continue to advance the work of the imf and the oecd. we have a strong consensus within the union a common approach. member states have not decided to go it alone. there is no single entry of a member state. this gives our voice a voice in this process, and that is why it is imperative that it remains so. with this support, we can expect our policy to have a great impact and the commission is confident that we can report to the european parliament on concrete and positive results by the end of this year.
madam president, over the last half century more than 30 countries have set up sovereign wealth funds. its growth in recent years has been fuelled by oil and trade surplus currencies, and some countries are now assessing its role in strengthening public pension systems. the sovereign wealth funds can contribute to financial stability on a global scale, as we have seen, and to economic growth that ensures solidarity between generations. they can also pose problems and distortions. we therefore need a common european approach and a transparent, predictable and well-governed operation. we must avoid conflicts of interest and the paradox of european sectors whose efficiency has been entrusted to the logic of the market being returned to the public discretion, but this time to third countries. in addition to ensuring consistency and reciprocity, it will be necessary to reflect on and make progress in establishing international rules in this regard.
madam president, i will try not to repeat some of the things that have been said. yes, i should point out that my first contact with sovereign funds was in the so-called kio scandal in spain in 1993, which, according to the kuwaiti authorities at the time, caused greater damage to their finances than the invasion of saddam hussein in 1991. from then on, the names have been in order. we have talked about gazprom, we have talked about china's actions in africa, we have talked about venezuela's actions in exporting the bolivarian revolution through these funds, and today we talk more, as a consequence of the financial crisis. many entities are being acquired or financially helped by these funds. it is true, and mrs kauppi has said it on behalf of my group, that these funds have undoubted advantages: they improve the allocation of resources, they provide an injection of liquidity and reduce volatility, all of which are very much to be appreciated in the present times. some of the concerns raised by these funds have also been identified here: increased participation by governments in the economy, intervention which may be dictated, at times, more than by economic reasons, by political objectives - which may result in market distortions and threats to national security - and, thirdly, the national reaction of individual governments, which could contribute to the fragmentation of the internal market. what to do? to paraphrase lenin. it is obvious that there is a need to continue investigating how these funds operate, to arrive at a correct diagnosis of what they are doing, to review the community framework (it is true that they are subject to competition and investor protection rules, but are they sufficient?) and to ensure a voluntary code of good conduct that ensures transparency, predictability and accountability. finally, this code of conduct should be exported to the international framework. that is why we welcome transatlantic cooperation and cooperation with bodies such as the oecd and the international monetary fund. we must act and we must act soon.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i can only share mrs harkin's concern, and stress that the presidency as such, and the french presidency in particular, is very sensitive to the issues raised by the honourable member, particularly as regards everything relating to the mobility and employability of young people, and intends to ensure that this issue is given special attention. and we will indeed ensure that these concerns can be taken into account by the commission, because it is the commission's responsibility to make such proposals. we will try to make progress on the concerns raised by mrs harkin during this presidency.
acting president of the council. - mr president, it is true that the european council in march 2007 approved the objective of achieving a minimum share of 10% of biofuels in total transport gasoline and diesel consumption by 2020. however, at the same time the council set out certain preconditions: first, that the objective could be achieved at reasonable cost, that the production of biofuels was sustainable, that second generation biofuels were placed on the market and that the fuel quality directive was amended accordingly to provide for appropriate levels of blending. we do not yet know whether these conditions will be met. in reply to mr crowley, the council had asked the commission to submit the necessary proposals as soon as possible. in january 2008, the commission therefore adopted a proposal for a directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. it would oblige each member state to ensure that the share of energy produced from renewable sources in the transport sector in 2020 is at least equal to 10%, as you know, of its final energy consumption in the transport sector, and this obligation would not only apply to biofuels. the commission proposal is still being discussed in the council's preparatory bodies and in the relevant committees of your parliament. the 10% target is of course an important point in these discussions, but we cannot draw any conclusions, and what we see is that the current target will be difficult to achieve. as far as the rise in food prices is concerned, it is a complex phenomenon with many deep-rooted causes and consequences. the european council of 19 and 20 june stressed the importance of ensuring that biofuel policies are time-bound, for example by improving first-generation biofuel processes and encouraging the development of second-generation biofuels made from by-products. it also noted the need to assess as soon as possible the possible impacts of these policies on agricultural products for food and to take measures, if necessary, to deal with any problems, and the european council also agreed to continue the assessment of the environmental, social and production and consumption impacts of biofuels, both within and outside the european union, in the context of our contacts with our international partners. we are therefore looking carefully at the commission's proposals, both for the sustainability criteria and for the monitoring and evaluation system. we know that your parliament is very sensitive to these issues and we believe that we can agree on rules that will allow us to enjoy the benefits of biofuels while minimising the indirect harmful effects.
acting president of the council. - mr president, the method of calculating greenhouse gas emission reductions, and in particular the choices underlying this method, will take into account fuel consumption. however, mr crowley is of course right. biomass and other bioenergy elements must also be taken into account, and efforts must be made to avoid the most harmful effects on food production. to this end, further efforts are needed in the area of research and development coordination, and perhaps adjustment of objectives in line with research coordination. work begins within the council. there have been discussions on this subject before and we see that here too we will have to take account of the various elements which were mentioned in mr crowley's speech.
mr president-in-office of the council, i know that you are familiar with what is known on the financial markets and stock exchanges as 'future operations'. and there is a lot of talk about the impact of the shift from agricultural production to biofuel production as one of the main reasons for the rising food prices. i would like to ask you whether the presidency and the council have carried out any studies on the volumes of futures trading which are specifically devoted to the food and hydrocarbon markets and to what extent this may be contributing to the indiscriminate rise in prices.
acting president of the council. - mr president, mr honourable member, i am not aware of any studies that have been carried out in the sense that you have indicated, mr honourable member. i was going to say 'unfortunately', because i think it would be useful to actually look at the role of markets and the role that future products can play in this area. and i think it would be good if we did more research on this because, as in other markets, there can be a phenomenon of anticipation and speculation, depending on the connotation we give to these words. as regards what mrs mcguinness has said, i think you are right - and that is also the intention of the presidency - we must make sure that we move more towards more sustainable agricultural production to avoid the excesses that may have occurred in a number of areas, and you mentioned the american example in particular, which is not wrong. we want to develop, under our presidency, initiatives which will lead to a more sustainable agricultural production system.
acting president of the council. - mr president, mr aylward, there is indeed an age gap between the protection against child labour provided for by the ilo conventions and, on the other hand, the millennium development goal. however, international conventions and the millennium development goal are two different but complementary approaches. the millennium development goals, which were adopted in 2000, are aimed, i remind you, at improving living conditions by 2015 through specific and concrete objectives that you know, and ensuring primary education for all is the second of these goals. through these millennium development goals, the international community has recognised education as a fundamental right and as a vehicle for economic development. the recognition of the right to education is certainly a means of combating child labour, but it is not the only one, and you also have the first objective of the millennium, namely the eradication of poverty as a whole, which is a determining factor in the fight against child labour and in the promotion of the education of young people. the conventions of the international labour organisation, for their part, set the legal framework for the fight against child labour, and it is clear from the millennium development goals on the one hand and the ilo protection conventions on the other that they complement each other, just as law and action or the general framework and what must be applied legally complement each other. in addition, there is a gap in age between the millennium development goals and the binding legal standards of the international labour organisation. the fact that there is this age gap, which was emphasized by mr aylward, does not in any way affect the council's determination to support the fight against all forms of child labour and the application of the conventions of the international labour organization. the conclusions adopted by the council last may demonstrate this, and the european union will endeavour to use the instruments at its disposal to take action and to use the political dialogue between the european union, the member states and third countries, including trade negotiations, development cooperation and action in international fora, to ensure that these conventions are applied everywhere. in its conclusions, the council stressed that the negotiations conducted by the european community and the agreements concluded by the european union with third countries should promote ratification of and compliance with the international labour organisation conventions on child labour and contribute to the elimination of all forms of child labour. the union will seek to make full use of development efforts to strengthen the systems and capacities used by partner countries themselves to provide basic services without discrimination; the council conclusions therefore also explicitly mention protection against violence and exploitation. they also mention the need for appropriate vocational training programmes and the development of skills and abilities to find productive employment and decent work after the minimum age for work.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i will take the questions backwards. i am not aware of this report, mr president, but i think that if this information were to be confirmed, the matter would obviously deserve to be examined in depth, because the facts must be examined at the level of the import chain. in any case, you should know that the presidency is very attentive to this type of arrangement and is determined to combat it, in particular by applying the principles of reciprocity in this area and by ensuring that international social standards are respected. secondly, you are absolutely right about development. this is a work which requires unremitting effort and we will continue to ensure that there is better coordination of development action. finally, as with all the other aspects of the european union's social dimension, the fight against child labour and the way forward for the european union in this area are among the major concerns of the presidency.
acting president of the council. - mr president, mr ó neachtain, as you know, council decision 2007/847, which was taken in its justice and home affairs configuration, on cooperation between the asset recovery offices of the member states in the field of the tracing and identification of proceeds of crime and other property related to crime, was adopted on 6 december 2007. article 8 of that decision provides that member states are to communicate to the general secretariat of the council and to the commission the text of any provisions of their national law enabling them to comply with the obligations imposed on them by that decision, and they are to do so before 18 december 2008. unfortunately, the general secretariat of the council can only say that it has not received any communication to date.
acting president of the council. - mr president, i will go along with the honourable member because, having also followed these cases at other periods of my professional life, i think that we should really strengthen this cooperation at european level. on my own behalf and on behalf of the presidency, i believe that we will ensure that the obligations of the member states in this area, in relation to the council decision, are fully respected and we will ensure, together with the general secretariat of the council, that these obligations are fulfilled by the deadlines set, that is to say, by the end of this year, at the end of our presidency. finally, i believe that the concerns raised by the honourable member are perfectly legitimate.
acting president of the council. - mr president, in reply to mr rack and mrs doyle, i only ask that i increase my knowledge of the efficiency of the irish office. if it is effective, i think there is no reason to take this methodology and change it at european level. the question mr rack is asking is also important. having followed cases of money laundering, i believe that we can distinguish between criminal assets as such and those that relate to money laundering, to what has been done, particularly after 11 september 2001 in the european context. but i think we must have the same constraint and i will see, personally, in the framework of the presidency, what can be done to have a framework which is perhaps more coherent but equally constraining. because, as far as laundering is concerned, you are quite right, mr rack, it has still produced quite satisfactory results at european level. so it would be useful to draw some inspiration from it, given my own experience.
acting president of the council. - mr president, mr ryan, this is indeed a very important question. there are now alert systems in place in some member states which make it possible to mobilise all public authorities and civil society in a very short time to search for and find the victim. such protection, which is effective at national level, may, however, prove ineffective if it is sufficient to cross a border to avoid the alert or to have sufficient time before it is triggered. in 2007, the european commission launched a reflection to identify existing schemes and to examine the feasibility and added value of action within the european union, and a working group was set up for this purpose. in parallel, some member states, namely france together with a few other countries, the netherlands, belgium, luxembourg, organised a cross-border abduction alert triggering exercise on 12 june 2008. other member states such as germany, spain, portugal, the czech republic and sweden, as well as the commission, participated in this exercise as observers. the concern expressed by mr ryan is a priority for the french presidency, which will continue to reflect pragmatically in order to make progress in the fight against child abduction and to show that the union's involvement in these situations is particularly strong. the results of the exercise carried out between several member states were presented at the meeting of the ministers for justice and home affairs which is ending today in cannes, and mrs dati was due to have discussions with her colleagues on this particularly important subject. i think it would be interesting to start thinking about best practices in this area which would allow existing systems to be networked to achieve the most efficient alert system. the council will of course keep your parliament informed of any initiatives which may be taken in the next six months on this particularly sensitive and important subject.
acting president of the council. - mr president, the idea of the green telephone is an excellent idea, because this system exists in several member states. you are quite right, mr ryan, and this is an idea which, in the context of the proposals being made by the presidency, could be generalized. the timetable we have is one of the particularly sensitive points to show that europe is taking concrete action to promote coordination on the most painful events, such as child abductions, thanks in particular to the media and a number of new methods, and our aim is to achieve convergence on practices and political agreement, if possible by the end of the french presidency. that is our aim.
acting president of the council. - mr president, the case of the abduction of madeleine maccann is a particularly sensitive one and, to be very clear with you, we have a willingness to cooperate, the presidency, the council, with the european parliament, so that there is joint action. mr rack is quite right in that respect. i'm not saying that we need to regulate. i think that we need to have convergence, good cooperation and good practice in this area, and try to see what is best done in the various states. that is why it was interesting to conduct these pilot exercises between several member states, our aim being to draw conclusions and submit them to our partners, in conjunction with your assembly, as mr rack points out, by the end of the french presidency. i think we have to be really effective on the ground and that is more through cooperation, as you said, than through regulation.
acting president of the council. - mr president, mr ortega is fully aware that, at the instigation of the european council in seville, the commission has presented a report based on a comprehensive approach to the specific situation of the outermost regions, with the aim of defining the measures to be implemented for their development and taking account of their specific needs. more recently, in september 2007, the commission presented to the council and the european parliament the outcome of this strategy and its future prospects. on the other hand, as the honourable member is aware, the green paper on the future of relations between the european union and the overseas countries and territories has just been published. so there is a wide public consultation which has just been launched by the commission, which will allow for a new partnership policy with the overseas countries and territories. as you know, these regions have much in common with the outermost regions: remoteness, isolation from the territory of the european union, vulnerability to climate change and, of course, everything that has to do with transport, whether by air or sea, the management of migration flows, agricultural policy and maritime policy. all these points are common to both the overseas territories and the outermost regions. in the world we live in, we have seen that to succeed, a coherent development policy had to be part of a wider regional framework. the european union has also been active in the field of regional development, with a particular focus on the mediterranean region, and has also been active in the field of economic and social cohesion. and this perspective, this regional dimension, is also taken into account in the economic partnership agreements negotiated between the european union and the acp states, which aim to achieve greater regional integration of these countries. we have a number of instruments for this, which you are familiar with. first of all, there must be better coordination between the financial instruments, whether the tenth edf, the erdf or those under co-financing. we must strengthen the existing maritime links between the outermost regions and neighbouring third countries. it is also necessary to participate in community research networks between these outermost regions, these overseas countries and territories and their neighbours and to ensure that they participate in community programmes. finally, new guidelines must be adopted on migration policies, particularly in the context of cooperation between the acp states and the european union. as the honourable member has been informed, the implementation of the strategy for the outermost regions, the objectives of which will also be taken into account in the context of the revision of the regulation on the programmes of options specific to remoteness and insularity, is part of the council's three-year work programme for the french, czech and swedish presidencies. as you know, the french presidency is particularly involved in these matters; and as proof, an important meeting, which began yesterday and will end on 11 july in reunion, will be on strategies to address climate change and biodiversity loss in these outermost regions and overseas countries and territories. we hope that this meeting will also give a new impetus to this policy to which we are deeply attached.
mr president, i thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply. as the president-in-office of the council knows, it is a proposal from a great commissioner, commissioner barnier, who spoke of this concept of the great neighbourhood, and the president-in-office of the council has pointed out a number of instruments in this regard. i hope that during the french presidency, before the end of this year, we will have concrete achievements. there has obviously been a whole series of documents which, as he knows, i know, of course, and we all know. but the important thing is that we move forward, because time is passing and, at the moment, the outermost regions do not have that external projection. the outermost regions are part of the european union, a continental territory, and they are giving us a great opportunity. i hope that before the end of this year the french presidency will be able to propose some measures to give substance to these general theories about the great neighbourhood of the outermost regions.
madam president, first of all i would like to express my appreciation to the commission for bringing the solutions to the problems of mobility - such as road safety in cities, co-management or environmental impact - closer to the citizens, who, by an overwhelming majority, perceive and suffer them in cities. in the face of the reservations and reservations expressed about the need to maintain this type of action in subsidiarity, i believe that these types of proposals not only provoke very important and necessary debates but also answer serious and urgent questions from national, regional and - above all - local governments. we are holding this debate today in the context of the strong debate on measures to combat climate change and on the eve of the great debate on the internationalisation of costs in the various modes of transport. these are essential debates, but they need to be translated into concrete action in the daily lives of citizens in their natural habitat, as is the case in cities. we therefore welcome this first successful effort by our institution in the form of mr rack's report, whom i congratulate on his successes and thank for his openness to accepting, encouraging and strengthening - by accepting my amendments - certain fundamental issues, such as alternative and healthier modes of urban mobility - for example, walking, cycling or public transport - and the promotion of road safety, which, as has been said here, is at its most difficult and aggressive in urban areas. in addition, not only people with reduced mobility but also people with prams and pushchairs who are often forgotten, as evidenced by the urban obstacles on the sidewalks, must be taken into account. we should also note its promotion of the efficiency of urban logistics by including safe loading and unloading facilities to facilitate distribution precisely in that last kilometre, also recognizing the need to facilitate the coexistence between the mobility of people and goods. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of smart transport systems by requiring their accessibility and interoperability, through flexible instruments and by encouraging active participation in local mobility forums.
thank you very much for your generosity, madam president. it is not the first time that i have intervened again, precisely because of a lack of time. i just wanted to say that, with regard to mr rack's report, i had two points to make and i think the commissioner is also sensitive to them. i refer, firstly, to the lack of promotion of new professional profiles linked to urban mobility, which i believe is important to foresee and take into account precisely because of their development, and, secondly, to what we had proposed as a broad participatory consultation to foresee the social impact of measures such as, for example, urban tolls, whose social impact is important to take into account.
mr president, mr governor, mr president of the eurogroup, you have both agreed that for ten years there has been an unchanged consensus on the relative role of the various policies. the central bank and monetary policy are responsible for ensuring price stability, the public accounts must be balanced in the medium term and the other policies are responsible for growing economies and growing employment. when things go wrong, you start to question this model. attempts are being made to shift responsibility to the european institutions. some blame mr trichet, others mr juncker. if things go wrong any further, mr poettering will be blamed. at this point, therefore, it seems important to me - and mr trichet is a good navigator - to keep on course, to maintain the model that has enabled us to get here. i would like to add a few words on the subject of prices. it is true, as mr juncker says, that everyone has a responsibility in this matter and that governments must do something about it, and that will have to be addressed in addressing market flexibility when we design the post-lisbon strategy. but there is one aspect in which the central bank has a special role to play. it is said - i do not know to what extent - that a certain component of the price increase is due to financial speculation; the shift of money from sub-prime and equity to futures is partly responsible for this situation, and we should all do something about it. on the institutional architecture, i agree with the rapporteur, mr schmidt, that it would probably not be a good idea at this time to publish the full minutes. i think, however, that it would be good to have the summary minutes published and i think it would be even more important for the central bank to tell us what the relative weight of the two pillars on which its strategy is based has been in each of the decisions to increase transparency and market knowledge. i also think that the increase in economic governance would provide a counterpoint, a balance, but mr trichet is obviously not to blame for that. we have it, because we have not yet adopted the treaty of lisbon, and i am trying to correct that.
in writing. - as regards the resolution on the 63rd session of the united nations general assembly to be held from september in new york, rule 90 (4) of the rules of procedure provides that a recommendation under the cfsp, voted in committee, is deemed to have been adopted by being placed on the agenda of the house without the need for ratification of the text by the house, nor for debate or amendment. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. this concept, which is too ambiguous, includes issues which are largely of individual conscience and morality, and we believe that they should not be the subject of pronouncements by this parliament, much less in connection with the new annual session of the united nations. our group asked for a separate vote in the afet committee and opposed it for the reasons set out above.
in writing. - i abstained on this report because, although it is true that pragmatic rules must be laid down for the creation of parliamentary groups, i believe that too many seats and too many member states have been allocated. if this parliament is in favour of plurality and diversity, it is better that these sensitivities are found in a political group and not that they are enlarged in the ranks of a group of non-attached people who may be increasingly heterogeneous and dysfunctional.
mr president, we have learned a lesson from the experience of the olympic games in china: if human rights are to be systematically violated, we must be a large and economically strong country, not zimbabwe or cuba. it doesn't have to be burma, either. it must be a country with hundreds of western companies; it must be a country with millions of people working in slave labour; it must be a country that acts in a big and aggressive way, and then europe kneels before that country.
acting president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, it was not the european union that decided to organise the olympic games in beijing in 2001; this is the international olympic committee. secondly, as you said, there are olympic ideals, but they are not political, they are sporting, as the international olympic committee keeps repeating. thirdly, i do not know whether the best way to fight for human rights in china and to have a comprehensive dialogue with television is to give ourselves a good conscience by saying, 'i will not go, but i will still watch the opening ceremony on television', as one of the honourable members of parliament pointed out earlier. i don't think that's really the problem. i would also like to note that in connection with the dialogue we must have with the chinese authorities, a number of members of parliament from different backgrounds and different sensibilities have expressed their views in this chamber. despite the current difficulties, we must continue to take advantage of the european union's relationship with china. only a strong union will enable the two sides to have the frank discussions - which you and we call for - on any issue, even the most difficult ones, and the european union did not wait for the events in tibet to initiate this dialogue. we want to engage with china on a growing number of bilateral and global issues, which are not - this is a caricature - limited to trade issues. this was also emphasized by mrs ferrero-waldner. we need a comprehensive dialogue with china, as the place of this country in the international community is important and we must do everything - the olympic games are also a lever from this point of view - so that there is a better integration of china into the international community. i would also like to point out that we will have to have a strategic dialogue with china, particularly in the context of the forthcoming summit under the french presidency. the date of this summit was not chosen by the french presidency. the summit will take place in the second half of 2008. it is our responsibility to prepare it in the best possible conditions, and this summit must be an opportunity to extend the partnership between china and the european union to new themes, which relate in particular to the fight against climate change, environmental standards and social standards - as many of you have stressed. china's desire to play a greater role on the international stage must be accompanied by new responsibilities: in the field of human rights, in the social field, in the environmental field. we know this and we want to act on it, and the european union is probably the most appropriate partner to encourage china to do so. in this respect, after consulting his partners and counterparts and receiving their agreement, president sarkozy, in his role as president of the european union, assumes the responsibilities of a comprehensive dialogue between the european union and china. if the community is to play a greater role on the world stage, it must assume the responsibilities that come with it. there have been many comparisons made, notably by mr cohn-bendit. i heard a comparison with the soviet union from brezhnev. is it really a confrontation between the blocs that we want? has there not been a change in the dialogue that has also taken place with this great country? we have carried them out and it is also through dialogue, through democratic developments that we have also made our values triumph in this respect, as always. we need to have a demanding and un-taboo dialogue with china, to encourage it to engage in all areas: political, human rights, social. some members have indeed raised the question of the death penalty. we are also discussing this with china, but we must also discuss this with all the other countries, and i would like to see this done by the same conservative interlocutors who did so earlier. there are other countries with the death penalty which have relations with the european union, i would like to remind you, but we really need to have this comprehensive dialogue. we must also be careful, and i fully agree with what the commission has said in the council, not to exacerbate nationalist reactions in china at a time when it is hosting an event of great importance for the whole of that country, which is aimed at making its integration into the international scene a reality. it is in this spirit, with all the responsibilities of his office and with full awareness of what european values are, that president sarkozy, in his new role, will go to beijing to make these points and also to show that we believe in the positive development of this great country in terms of its integration on the international scene. we have already had concrete signs with regard to burma, which have come to us in the context of resolving conflicts with iran, with north korea, where we also need the assistance of china. this is obviously more than just commercial interests. finally, i would point out to mr cappato that we must also, in all our relations, whether within the union, with regard to minorities, or in the relations between the union and a number of its partners, have the same requirements and be careful before giving the whole world moral lessons.
member of the commission. − mr president, i shall be very brief because much has been said. i would just like to reiterate that the relationship with china is a very multifaceted one. that means that we have huge scope in this strategic relationship. apart from the environment, trade, culture – whatever the various sectoral talks and dialogues that we have – we also take the concerns with regard to human rights that have been particularly expressed here today very seriously. we take them seriously whether they concern human rights defenders or petitioners who are in jail or the application of the death penalty. it is true that very high numbers of people are being executed. we have always mentioned this very clearly, also the alleged cases of torture and ill-treatment. we have this human rights dialogue. it is true that sometimes it is not satisfactory, but we do not have another instrument. we have to continue having a dialogue with china. we have a saying in german: steter tropfen höhlt den stein (constant dripping wears the stone). this is what we are trying to do. (applause)
in order to close the debate, five motions for resolutions have been tabled, pursuant to rule 103 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, exceptionally, at 9 a.m., following the presentation of the french presidency's programme. written declarations (rule 142) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mr elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the commission's 2007 strategy paper on enlargement [2007/2271 (ini) ] (a6-0266/2008).
ladies and gentlemen, you will have noticed that when we give the floor to a speaker we wait for him to finish, because the interpreters have told us that we have to allow ten or fifteen seconds to pass, which is the time it takes to forward the speech, before we give the floor to the next speaker. you understand that this is to allow the interpretation to reach everyone in the right way.
mr president, the brok report refers to one of the european union's most outstanding successes: the enlargement process. let me make three points. first, enlargement has highlighted the so-called 'transformative power of the union'. the desire for integration has been a powerful stimulus for many european countries to undergo profound political and economic changes. they have thus become members of the union, to the benefit of themselves and also of the former member states. the fifth enlargement is the latest proof of this success. secondly, i agree with the commission's concepts of conditionality, consolidation and communication, which are also supported by the brok report. i also support the requirement of the union's capacity for integration. enlargement requires that the union be able to absorb it and to function properly. to this end, it should, where appropriate, undertake institutional reforms and secure, for example, financial resources. enlargements must not jeopardise the common policies and the objectives of the union. as has been said, an ambitious communication policy is also needed, which the union has so far lacked. we have not been able to explain the benefits of enlargement to the public. finally, the brok report raises the possibility of creating a specific area of the union with eastern european countries which do not yet have prospects of integration. as paragraph 19 of the report says, this area or zone would be based on common policies on a variety of subjects, from the rule of law and democracy to education or migration. in my view, many of these common policies should not be pursued only with the eastern european countries but can also be extended to the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean. they have had very close relations with the european union for more than 50 years. the european neighbourhood policy and the so-called barcelona process - now the union for the mediterranean - must ensure that the countries of the southern shore do not feel treated as second-class citizens.
mr president, first of all, i should like to say that there is no room for nuance in a minute, and i am speaking exclusively on my own behalf. the enlargement has not always been a success. the political elites of the four or five countries that were part of the last enlargement in 2004 have not, in my view, understood or accepted political europe or the acquis communautaire. they give priority to bilateral relations with the united states and rely more on nato than on their process of genuine integration into the european union. there can be no further enlargements without the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the negotiations currently under way with the applicant countries must continue and must not be interrupted, but, i repeat, not closed until the lisbon treaty is adopted. finally, we must not allow countries which want to make further progress to be prevented from doing so by the most eurosceptic, nationalist or sovereigntist countries.
i am told that we are extremely short of time and therefore will not be able to give the floor to a few other colleagues. i would point out to those who have asked to speak that they may put their comments in writing, which will be recorded in the minutes.
i would like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that a delegation from the south african parliament is present in the official tribune, led by mr d. obed bapela, chairman of the committee on foreign affairs, whom we all know for his friendship with europe and for his involvement in the fight against apartheid. (applause) i would like to welcome our guests to what has been the 12th interparliamentary meeting of the european parliament and the south african parliament. this is a very important visit. the frequency of these visits is reinforcing political dialogue, a key aspect of the joint action plan for the implementation of the eu-south africa strategic partnership which we adopted in may last year. the deepening of our cooperation in the interests of international security and stability is certainly more necessary than ever, given the tense regional situation that exists in southern africa today and, in particular, the crisis in zimbabwe that we are all witnessing. welcome, therefore, our friends from south africa.
we continue our discussion of the report by elmar brok on the commission's 2007 strategy paper on enlargement.
acting president of the council. - mr president, three comments before we come to this debate, which has been extremely rich and exciting. first of all, i would like to welcome the south african delegation to your parliament, also on behalf of the council, and to inform them that we will soon be meeting the leaders of the republic of south africa, because this will be the first european union summit to be held in france at the end of july. secondly, i would like to join olli rehn in expressing my deep sympathy for the german tourists who have been reported to have been kidnapped by kurdish rebels in turkey. we in the council really hope that, if confirmed, these people will be found as quickly as possible, truly safe and sound, and we wish to express our solidarity with them. thirdly, i would like to thank mr duff for his knowledge of french politics, and of the positions i may take in my own capacity. i would like to tell him that i am of course available to discuss these matters more fully with him over coffee, but unfortunately i am not here today to comment on them in the context of these functions. so, as far as our debate is concerned, enlargement is fully part of the history of european construction and, up to now, we have always made enlargement and strengthening the union go hand in hand, and it is important that this continues, as mr brok has stressed. all debates are useful in raising awareness among our citizens of the issues of enlargement, and we therefore pay particular attention to the debates and the european parliament's positions on this subject. following on from what many members have done, i would like to emphasize the stabilizing role of enlargement. this is evident in the case of the balkans. the rapid progress of croatia, which the french presidency will wish to accelerate if all the member states agree, shows that countries which experienced the conflicts of the 1990s have a real prospect of accession. this is an important message, especially for serbia, which has just been given a government which also wants to strengthen its ties with the european union. this is also true of turkey, and in this connection i would like to point out that the current state of the negotiations is not linked to the position of any particular member state of the european union, but is linked to turkey itself, to the pace of reforms in these countries, and above all to turkey's compliance with its obligations towards all the member states of the european union and, in particular, with the ankara protocol. the enlargement policy does not mean that we neglect the other neighbours of the european union. the council is currently discussing how to enable ukraine to take a new step in its relationship with the european union at the next eu-ukraine summit in evian on 9 september, and we also want to move forward the union's relationship with moldova, a country in which the council has already invested heavily. and we also support, as the presidency of the council, the regional processes that have been described. i myself attended the black sea synergy launch conference and the baltic rim summit. and of course i do not forget to mention the next summit on the barcelona process and the union for the mediterranean, which will take place in paris on 13 july. in conclusion, as you can see, the enlargement process is not broken. it continues in a demanding way for the candidate countries, but also for the member states, which have to explain this process to their citizens. and mr rouček and mrs de keyser are absolutely right, there is a real pedagogical effort to be made, with or without magritte, dear mrs de keyser. but it is true that, as you have pointed out, there is an effort to be made to reassure them as well. it is precisely to enable this process to continue, the strategic importance of which has been stressed by some of you, including mr brok, that the lisbon treaty provides for the reform of our institutions so that the new member states - let us be clear - are welcomed in the best possible conditions, without jeopardising the european union's capacity to act.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am particularly happy to conclude my part in this debate in the presence of a parliamentary delegation from south africa, as i started my political activity some decades ago in a campaign to free nelson mandela. we are lucky that in this house the only prisoners left seem to be my friend, elmar brok, and myself, as publicly announced on the table. (laughter)i would like to thank the members for a very substantive and responsible debate today. i only want to make one cross-cutting point of a general nature. i am glad that the brok report and today’s debate essentially endorse the renewed consensus on eu enlargement, which was achieved in december 2006 – not least because of the events in 2005. the key virtue of this strategy is that it strikes a carefully calibrated balance between the underlying strategic importance of enlargement in extending the zone of peace and prosperity, liberty and democracy on the one hand, and our own capacity to integrate new members with rigorous conditionality and our internal reform on the other. i cannot help recalling – i have an elephant’s memory – that in the autumn of 2004, after a parliamentary hearing, i was criticised by the committee on foreign affairs for a lack of vision because i did not immediately want to provide an accession perspective for ukraine. i only said that we should not prejudge the future as regards ukraine. a year later i was criticised for emphasising absorption capacity and stopping the motion of enlargement. in this light i particularly welcome today’s debate, which strikes the right balance between the strategic importance of enlargement and our own capacity to integrate new members.this debate and the report find a solid third way by combining both a deepening of political integration with the gradual widening of the european union. in my view this clearly shows a convincing convergence of the use of the european parliament and of the commission, and of the european union as a whole, and i certainly welcome this phenomenon and the direction towards the renewed consensus on enlargement which has been prevailing since 2006.
i would like to point out to the members present that i shall be raising my concern at the bureau meeting this evening about the 'catch the eye' procedure, which has no rules, is left solely to the discretion and arbitrariness of the president or the president himself, and i believe that it is essential to establish rules, because the truth is that it is becoming a dead end. we have had as many as 15 requests today, it is true, and the normal procedure is being altered as regards the time available for each group to speak. i therefore want to leave this on the conscience of my colleagues and, in particular, of those who may have been upset, because there have been many who have asked to speak and few who have been able to speak.
mr president, it is precisely because some of us believe that israel is a democracy – a democratic state – and because the european union treats it as such, that we hold it accountable to the rule of law. if it was not a democratic state, we would not be trying to hold it accountable to the rule of law. there is no supreme court for those who are out of the whole judicial system. we know what the supreme court says, but that applies only to those who can reach the supreme court. when you are under administrative detention and you have no access to court whatsoever, there is no supreme court ruling which will protect you. the conflict cannot be used as an argument for such violations. it is not a balanced approach to remain neutral and to treat these individuals as if they did not exist. these individuals are under arrest without any guarantee whatsoever, without any procedure; their families are beside themselves, and their houses and families in many cases are being destroyed and punished for what they have done or what they are accused of, and that deserves a reaction from the european union.
mr president, we are moved by the words of mrs morgantini and cannot but sympathize with the cases, duly documented by her, of alleged violations of the human rights of palestinian prisoners. i say properly documented, because some of my colleagues on the left have made very serious and intolerable accusations against the state of israel. they have been accused of murdering women and children and of having nazi attitudes. is this helping the peace process? mrs morgantini, i know that your initiative is based on a concrete and moving case and that you have good will. now, your colleagues on the left, some of them, have used this opportunity once again to try to crush and humiliate the people of israel. it is clear that we must continue the work of eradicating the soviet anti-semitism which is still permeating the minds of some of your colleagues here in parliament.
mr president, in order not to repeat what has already been said by other members, i shall concentrate on the opening of parliament. the march elections were elections which gave the opposition a majority, and before 17 july the parliament of that country has to be constituted. we as parliamentarians should concentrate our efforts on the pressure of the european union to ensure that the democratic hope of a parliament with an opposition majority can work. the lever that must be used. we should do everything possible, i insist, to ensure that, beyond the simulation of the presidential elections, the legislative elections, which gave a result that was recognised and favourable to the opposition, allow parliament to get going. the second issue is the mediator. it is clear that south africa has reached the limit of its capacity to mediate, to say the least. it is essential that there is another mediator to accompany, if not replace, at least accompany the president of south africa. otherwise, mediation too will look like a perverted mechanism that is subservient to the zimbabwean government.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me first extend my gratitude to the fisheries committee and especially to its rapporteur, mrs fraga, for her report. this revised protocol has set the fishing possibilities and the financial contribution for the period 1 august 2010 to 31 july 2012. it is the result of a long and complex negotiation process between the european commission and mauritania that was launched in october 2007, following serious under-utilisation of the protocol by european ship-owners, namely under-utilisation for cephalopods and the small pelagic species. the main changes introduced in the new protocol are, firstly, related to the duration of the protocol, which we have extended from two to four years, and, secondly, a reduction of the fishing possibilities for cephalopods, following scientific advice, and for small pelagics, following the actual utilisation and the forecasts for the european union fleet. thirdly, an overall reduction of the financial contribution over a four-year period, from an average of eur 86 million per year to an average of eur 72.25 million per year, but with an increase within this allocation of the part dedicated to supporting the country’s fisheries policy: from eur 11 million per year in 2008-9 to eur 20 million per year in 2011-2012. fourthly, there is a revised procedure for dealing with infringements in mauritanian waters. this is a well-balanced protocol which conciliates the different interests: the need to adjust the eu financial contribution to reduced fishing possibilities for the eu fleet, and the importance of giving greater support to the fisheries sector in mauritania so as to encourage the integration of this sector into the mauritanian national development strategy. the fisheries partnership agreement contributes 20% of the budgetary revenues of the mauritanian state, compared to approximately 30-35% in the period 2004-2005. the fisheries partnership agreement amounts to 80% of the overall revenues from the fisheries sector within the state budget. the european community fishing effort in the mauritanian eez represents 20% of the overall effort – that is both artisanal and industrial fleets. during the negotiations, the mauritanian side asked the commission to make every effort to pay the first annual financial contribution by the end of august 2008. this contribution is crucial for the mauritanian national budget considering, as i said earlier, that annual payments under the fisheries partnership agreement represent 15 to 20% of the country’s budget. it is also of vital importance for eu operators in the region whose activities may suffer in the event of non-payment before that date – that is due to non-ratification on the community side. i would also like to make reference to the question of relative stability, which was also raised by one of the member states during the june council, and to remind you that the commission has no legal obligation to apply the previous allocation of fishing possibilities (i.e. relative stability) under the fisheries partnership agreement, that is agreements which have a financial compensation, such as the one we are considering today. this is because it needs to guarantee that the allocation reflects the best possible option for ensuring value for money (i.e. optimisation of the utilisation for the financial contribution). under these agreements, fishing possibilities should be allocated according to other criteria such as the utilisation rate of the previous protocol, the member states’ requests during negotiations and historical fishing possibilities allocated to the member states and also the situation/capacity of the fleet.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to say that once again we in the committee on fisheries have worked at full speed to ensure that the commission and the european union can meet their commitments. i would like to say, however, that perhaps the commission's initial lack of interest in the negotiations is what has led to some of the criticisms we have made in the report on the procedure followed, despite the fact that mauritania remains one of our most important fishing partners in the european union, despite the fact that the financial contribution is also one of the most important and that, moreover, this contribution contains ever greater commitments for the development of the community fisheries sector. it is difficult to understand why a text has been negotiated in which fishing opportunities are reduced on a large scale by between 25 and 50% for practically all categories of fisheries and, above all, a text in which, in addition to technical measures, conditions have been accepted which are difficult for us to understand. as we have said here on several occasions and as europêche has written to you in a letter, mr commissioner, it is of little use to negotiate magnificent fishing opportunities - which is not the case in this agreement either - if technical conditions are then accepted which prevent their proper exploitation. the minimum size for octopus, which has no relation to that in the neighbouring areas, or the biological halt of two additional months negotiated at the last minute, practically behind the backs of the sector, based on a poor scientific report, made at the request of the parties and without the prior step required by the joint scientific committee, and which focuses only on cephalopods, despite the fact that the halt affects almost all categories, are a worrying example, sometimes, of how the european commission negotiates. this leads us to insist once again, commissioner and mr president, on the need for greater involvement of the european parliament, at least as an observer at the meetings of the joint committees, as a minimum requirement for interinstitutional transparency, which should have been fulfilled long ago. and it would be a good thing if, in view of the new powers which we hope the european parliament will acquire once the treaty of lisbon - which was already on the way and which i am convinced must enter into force soon - is finally in force, the council and the commission were to train themselves to involve the european parliament in a role which sooner or later will have to be fulfilled. we have also alluded in the report to the fact that we should denounce the commission, mr commissioner, and i am sorry to disagree with you on this, for not respecting the relative stability of the agreement, for taking the initiative to relax on its own a criterion which you have on other occasions given almost sacred status, in an attitude which we shall be monitoring very closely as we should. i hope that in the specific case you have mentioned, that of cephalopods, the distribution keys arising from the relative stability and historical rights in the fisheries in this fishery will be respected. we will also be very attentive to the meetings which are planned in the various forums and in the joint committees to resolve some of the technical questions to which i have referred and which may leave on shore, as is still happening in morocco, a fleet which desperately needs access to fishing opportunities for which it is paying a lot of money. however, with a duration of four years, as you have said, this fisheries protocol remains, together with morocco, the most important fisheries cooperation agreement between the union and developing countries, which is why we are obviously calling for a vote against the two new amendments tabled and, instead, for the swift adoption of the commission's proposal.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i would like to emphasize the fact that, although the duration of this new protocol has been increased from two to four years, the fishing opportunities provided for in it have been reduced. the allocation of licences provided for in the protocol for category 5 (cephalopods), which grants 24 to spain, will be a problem for the spanish administration, since the number of licences is insufficient to meet the applications of the sector directly concerned by this category. the council may establish a new allocation of allowances, taking into account their use. however, in this case, not even the average was considered, but the period from the end of 2007 to the beginning of 2008, when the situation caused by the open disputes with mauritania, by the use of certain technical measures, meant that a large part of the european fleet did not dare to go to this agreement, for fear of being rushed, as happened during the first quarter of 2008. the new protocol has solved the technical problems and opened up a more secure procedure for resolving technical differences between the parties, and this will surely lead to more vessels wanting to come to this fishery, which is now considered safer, with more guarantees, of course, than under the previous protocol.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we had high hopes that the renegotiation of the protocol to the agreement with mauritania would help to make up for the previous bad negotiations; we also believed that it would help to correct the bad result of the negotiations on the agreement with morocco for a fleet as important from a commercial point of view as the cephalopod, which has a great economic and social impact on galicia, and which has since suffered the effects of this double bad negotiation, which must be added to the general crisis in the fisheries sector. but no, it has not, and therefore we cannot praise or congratulate the commission on this result. in general, there is a huge reduction in fishing opportunities and the financial compensation is not commensurate with that reduction. the sector concerned has received little attention and the technical measures adopted are not only ambiguous but also harmful to the community fleet. in the case of cephalopods, as has been said in the report, the minimum size of the octopus is the largest in the whole region, without any need for it, which gives the tip to this cephalopod fleet and, if that were not enough, in this category a distribution of licences is made that undermines relative stability, to the detriment of the spanish fleet. as you will understand, commissioner, although we regret it very much, all these arguments mean that we cannot, in this case, congratulate you on the results achieved, which i believe could and should have been much better.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for the interesting comments and the debate that we have had. i would like to pick up on a couple of points that have been raised. first of all you are correct to point out that there are fewer fishing opportunities under this revised protocol. this was precisely the reason behind our decision to effect a renegotiation, because we needed to ensure maximum utilisation of the fishing opportunities, whereas under the previous situation there was significant under-utilisation of the fishing possibilities both with regard to small pelagics and with regard to cephalopods. on the issue of technical requirements, for example with regard to dredges, we hope that we will find a solution quickly to this issue, and the mauritanian authorities are very well disposed to finding a solution to the satisfaction of both sides. regarding rest periods, this request came originally from the industry since they maintain that, after such rest periods, catches become more profitable. on the question of setting the minimum size for octopus at 500 g, i need to make the point that we are dealing with a third country, a sovereign nation, mauritania, and its own regulation specifies that the minimum size for octopus is 500 g. this was a line we could not cross during negotiations: one cannot ask a third country to change its legislation because it is interesting to our own fishermen to catch smaller-sized cephalopods. however, we do recognise that there is not one harmonised regulation on the subject in the region. there are other countries which allow catches of cephalopods of smaller size, and therefore a decision on this matter should be taken within the copace organisation. on the issue of allocation keys, i.e. what is known as ‘relative stability’, as i said before the commission is not bound to transfer relative stability from one agreement to another or from one protocol to another. however, it is provided for in the agreement and in the protocol that, should member states need more opportunities, and should such requests be based on science, on the state of the stock, then such requests could certainly be considered, and i would undertake to take them up with mauritania in order to negotiate increases, as in the case for example of cephalopods, if there is a specific request to do so. i need to make the point that with regard to cephalopods licences were utilised on 22 occasions and in the new protocol there is provision for 25, so we are actually catering for creating a buffer, allowing for utilisation. if the particular member state involved maintains that they have requests in excess of 25, as long as they give us the specific facts, we will take those up with mauritania in order to bring about an increase, always as long as the state of the stock allows. i need to underline the fact that with regard to cephalopods we do have problems concerning the sustainability and the health of the stock. again on the question of this whole issue of relative stability, i would also like to point out that one cannot have one’s cake and eat it. on one hand, when it comes to the allocation of cephalopods, the allocation seems not to please one particular member state. but then when it comes to tuna where there is a significant increase of allocations for that same member state, then that works out in the member state’s favour and we have received no complaints in that regard. concerning the reason for the denunciation and the renegotiation of the protocol, namely that it was under-utilised, again i would like to make the point made by mrs isler béguin that such agreements are not only about fisheries but also about development assistance. in fact, whereas we have decreased the financial component for fishing opportunities, there is a clear undertaking on our part to increase the development component, and we are fully committed to respect this. therefore, in total, the financial allocation has been maintained over the four-year term. the budgetary support to the 10th edf will compensate for the remaining eur 40 million for 2009/10-2012 at the rate of eur 10 million per year and this means that mauritania will be receiving a financial package which, when you take into account both what they are receiving by way of compensation for fishing opportunities – which have been reduced on the basis of what was actually being fished in mauritanian waters – and the increase to the budgetary support through the 10th edf ad hoc compensation within this protocol, we end up with a situation where the total package is equivalent to the fishing package that they had under the previous financial protocol. finally on the issue of boarding i would like to say that a meeting of the working group will be held this sunday, this weekend, in order to discuss this specific issue and to agree on recommendations and guidelines that should solve the issue. on the point made by mrs fraga at the very outset concerning participation of meps, the commission considers that the same approach that is followed for the participation of meps in bilateral negotiations has to be followed as regards joint committees where the two parties are officially represented. the commission will, however, continue to cooperate with parliament on the basis of the framework agreement that exists.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i will try to be systematic. firstly, with regard to the speech by mrs isler beguin, i would like to say that the amounts for cooperation and development in the four years of the protocol are increasing. it is the total financial contribution which is reduced by 19%, but the amounts for development cooperation are increased by 11, 16, 18 and 20 million euro, so as regards development cooperation, you need not be careful, because the amounts will be even increased. the commissioner, as regards the question of the minimum size of the octopus, and i am referring to the fact that technical measures are important for the use of weighing possibilities, is not a question that is arising now. you know very well that this is an open question. i repeat: it is the highest in the region; copace, which is the east central atlantic fisheries committee, said this year at its plenary meeting that the whole area should be unified into a single minimum size and i think that the commission should make an effort to ensure that this issue does not continue to recur. the report itself, drawn up by the mauritanian scientific committee, says that in november, for example, the size of octopus in the mauritanian fishery between 300 and 500 grams represents 50%, so there is a problem with the minimum size of octopus in the fishery of mauritania and the rest. as regards the question of relative stability, i will not argue with you, but it is a matter we have discussed in parliament, it is in the basic regulation which we have just discussed with the regulation on licences with third countries and it is another thing to allocate at the start. the allocation at the beginning must respect historical rights, but if the fishing opportunities are not used in that allocation, the commission - and i agree - can give them to whomever it wishes and to whomever asks for them, but at the beginning the historical rights must be respected and, in the case of category five for mauritania, they have not been respected, commissioner. i could answer more questions, but i think, even though i can't see well without glasses, i've run out of time.
member of the commission. − mr president, firstly i am very grateful to the european parliament for arranging this debate at such short notice. as you are aware, yesterday the commission adopted a proposal for a regulation containing key elements of the eu package of emergency measures to address the fuel crisis. today i am seeking your agreement to this proposal. unfortunately it was impossible for the commission to adopt its proposal on 3 july as had initially been planned. the reason for that is the depth of the analysis that had to go into the proposal, to guarantee that it is a really effective instrument to address the severe problems the sector is facing. the committee on fisheries held a useful discussion this morning, for which i am thankful. a number of questions could be clarified and debated and i hope to be able to take the important and useful suggestions into consideration during negotiations in the council next week. i am looking forward to more debate with you, now hoping that this can pave the way to your favourable opinion on our proposal in the vote tomorrow. as i explained to you only three weeks ago, the fisheries sector is facing a crisis which is structural and long lasting. for many years, the eu fleet has suffered from a vicious circle of overcapacity, overfishing and declining profitability. at the same time, fishers have been unable to benefit from reduced supply and rising retail prices for fish products. as a result, profits are decreasing, making the sector more vulnerable than others to a drastic rise in costs, such as we have seen with the price of oil. the commission understands the need for coordinated action at eu level to avert a severe crisis for the industry and to ensure that the problem is really tackled head on. this means not only providing the possibility of emergency relief but committing to finally addressing the underlying issue of overcapacity, which is undermining all our attempts to get the industry back on a sustainable and profitable footing. for these reasons, the commission has proposed an emergency package of measures to tackle the immediate social and economic hardship triggered by the dramatic rise in the price of oil, while also tackling the underlying structural problems of the european fleet. i believe that it is vital to focus aid on the fleets which are most dependent on fuel and thus most affected by the current overcapacity. we therefore propose that member states can immediately grant temporary cessation aid as a lead-in measure to restructuring and that they can then set up fleet adaptation schemes under which limitations on access to permanent cessation – scrapping – premiums will be lifted. additional aid for temporary cessation, as well as modernisation and energy efficiency, would be available for vessels involved in such schemes. partial decommissioning aid would be granted to operators who replace larger old vessels with smaller, more energy-efficient ones. based on further economic analyses, possible modifications to the de minimis regime for fisheries may also be considered. we will, furthermore, propose provisions to allow for temporary reductions in employees’ contributions to social security payments. a number of specific initiatives to promote the value of fish at the first point of sale are also envisaged. the commission is planning to assist ad hoc projects in this area, in addition to the funds available under the european fisheries fund. further measures are planned to encourage the shift to energy-saving technologies, cushion the socioeconomic impact of the crisis, and facilitate the reprogramming and the disbursement of eff funds. the above measures will consist of temporary derogations to the rules of the european fisheries fund so as to support faster adaptation of the eu fleet to the present situation and provide temporary relief during the transitional phase. i believe that these measures will help give an essential thrust to the industry to structurally adapt, whilst easing the transition for fishermen, vessel owners and people employed in support services during the period of adaptation. the commission has engaged in very important and constructive discussion with the industry on this matter and the industry gives general support to our initiatives. with regard to the official amendments that have been tabled by parliament to the commission proposal, we can accept the amendment referring to recital 13 and, in fact, it should be applied to all vessels. however, the commission cannot support the amendment to article 18(2) as this would make the partial decommissioning measure virtually impossible to apply in practice. finally, and very importantly, let me express my belief that throughout this process we can give further impetus to the common fisheries policy, in particular in the context of resource sustainability. i am aware of the very short deadline and that this leaves the european parliament with little time to react. however, given the exceptional situation being faced by the fisheries sector, i trust i can count on the support of parliament to adopt the said measures as speedily as possible.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, first of all, i think it is a pity, as the commissioner has said, that we have had to work in this way, on the basis of unofficial documents, not even translated, until today, into all the languages, when this parliament has been calling for measures and warning of the serious crisis that is looming over the fisheries sector for a long time. it is clear, commissioner, that we too have accepted the urgency out of due respect for our fishing industry. i would also like to stress that this proposal, as the commissioner has said, is only part of the package of measures and that we do not know the timetable or the essential details of the new de minimis measures, the modification of state aid, the guidelines for the new common organization of the market, or the new ad hoc financial instrument referred to in the commission's communication, which would allow us to make an overall assessment. as regards the amendment to the european fisheries fund proposed by the commission, we appreciate the effort to make it more flexible, although it would have been more practical to follow the european parliament's proposals when they were adopted, proposals which, like those concerning the change of engines, were more suitable for operating in the event of a crisis and which perhaps would have avoided the pronounced bias towards scrapping which we now have. i also appreciate, and i say this sincerely, the willingness shown this morning by commissioner borg to include some of the amendments suggested in the debate in the committee on fisheries, including the one i proposed myself, accepting that, in addition to the reference period for 2007, the reference period for the first six months of 2008 should be included in the reference period for the benefits of the fleet adaptation programme, months in which fuel prices have risen at the highest rates. finally, we also call for greater action by the member states concerned to put these and other measures into effect. the ball is now really in their court, and it is up to them to act quickly in order to make the most of these measures, and those still pending, which are actually helping to alleviate the crisis in the fisheries sector. i hope that what has happened to the regulation on illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing, which the council has decided will not come into force until 2009, will not happen.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, last june i spoke to this house about the need for europeans to face this crisis together through an effective and fair mechanism that would allow for urgent measures to be taken at community level. the european socialists are pleased that the problems in this sector have received a community response and that the proposal contains measures which have already been called for both by the members of the european parliament, who have discussed this issue on several occasions, and by the governments of the member states most affected. we hope, commissioner, that the measures you propose will help to tackle two problems that have long plagued european fleets: their excessive dependence on fuel and the need to improve the marketing of their products. we are in no way less in favour of the measures which can be financed, some of them even more than others, such as temporary cessations of activity, changes in engines and fishing gear, and we are very pleased that the aid is being extended for the first time to workers on land, a demand raised by the socialists on numerous occasions. we also welcome the announcement that you yourself have made that other more far-reaching proposals will be put forward in the immediate future, such as those aimed at improving marketing, or also the price formation system and, of course, the increase in the minimis which, as you have told us, is awaiting the result of the preliminary impact study. the european socialists, as you well know, have renounced our ability to amend the proposal in order, as you yourself have asked us, to have it adopted by the european parliament's plenary tomorrow without any obstacle to enable it to be adopted by the fisheries council next tuesday.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in this debate we must recognize several things. firstly, if the fisheries sector did not say 'enough' in the streets, we would probably not be here today debating the urgency of taking action. this is the first reconnaissance. secondly, that the european institutions have echoed this cry of protest, the european parliament first. it has already adopted its resolution on the crisis at the previous part-session. and the european commission, it is fair to say - and we said so to the commissioner this morning - has reacted with unusual speed, presenting the package we are discussing today. we should all congratulate ourselves on that. is everything settled? not by a long shot. this, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, is just the beginning. the commission has presented what we can call a first document of the first phase to deal with the crisis, a plan of aid centred on the conversion of the fleet. it is now equally urgent that we should have the plan for the second phase, the plan for measures to make the fleet profitable, the commercial measures, the measures aimed at raising the price of fish at first sale, for which we do not yet have a precise timetable. the council and the governments of the member states still have to apply them with the same diligence as the commission and parliament, and, as we have asked, they must also increase controls on fish imports and launch major consumer information campaigns to promote the interests of our fishermen. if that were not the case, if we were to stick with what we have on the table today, mr commissioner, we would be faced with nothing but an ingenious and generous operation, which would take advantage of the current crisis situation to reduce the fishing fleet, but not to make it more profitable and to get it out of the deep crisis in which it is today.
mr president, i would like to ask you for a moment about the french presidency's position on linguistic diversity. the european union is founded on the principle of diversity. all the world's languages are part of the heritage of humanity, and it is the duty of public institutions to act to protect them. mr president, the council conclusions of 22 may on multilingualism called on the commission to draw up a detailed framework on this subject, which it has already announced it will do by next autumn. what will be the position and action of the french presidency on multilingualism policy? what will be the presidency's position and what role will it give to the eu's non-official languages, also called 'regional' and 'minority' languages? because, mr president, in anticipation of the vote in the senate next week, the french state is currently a very bad example for all those who believe that linguistic diversity is a common heritage of all europeans. (the speaker continued his speech in basque)
mr president, the priorities of the french presidency of the union are realistic priorities which, in my view, are well placed to respond, as mr durão barroso, president of the commission, said, to the criticisms of a europe that is impotent and unable to respond to the daily concerns of our citizens: the constitutional problem, the prices of food and energy products, the europe of defence and immigration. today, the death of an immigrant in a refrigerated lorry under the channel tunnel or thrown overboard in a boat - as has happened in the last few hours - en route to the canary islands is one of the great contemporary tragedies, a serious and urgent problem, and the european union must give an appropriate response to this problem. the president of my political group, mr daul, spoke of the need to mobilise political will, and i believe that this presidency is not lacking in political will at all. but political will, mr president, is a necessary but not sufficient condition: circumstances also count, and circumstances, even if they are transitory, even if they are temporary, even if they are temporary, condition and limit us while they exist, and i welcome president sarkozy's statement that circumstances must be turned into opportunities. i regret that mr schulz is not with us now, because when he spoke of sport, and this gives me a very particular circumstance, i would like the yellow jersey to be a spanish shirt again, as it was in the first stage of the tour. but you are right, mr president-in-office, that there must indeed be a european dimension to sport, and several members of this parliament have asked me to forward to you the request that you consider whether french athletes who are going to participate in the olympic games - of which we have spoken here today - should be allowed to wear, alongside the national flag, an emblem of the european union so that other member states can join this initiative on a voluntary basis. we hope, mr president-in-office, that the french presidency will be able to unite its will and forge consensus so that, as you have proposed, the european union can make decisive progress under your presidency.
mr president, mr president-in-office, you must take the bull of doubt about lisbon by the horns. france has a long history of sometimes pushing forward, sometimes pushing back the construction of europe. i ask you to find a way out for the irish, while respecting the will of the overwhelming majority of europeans, which also counts. and i would point out that, on the social front, the lisbon treaty contains the charter of fundamental rights, the european social model. for example, over a million signatures have already been collected from european disabled people - one in four households - who support the treaty because it eliminates age-old discrimination. so you have support behind you so you can move forward and integrate into the social model. on immigration, you've been talking to the left. but you will also recognize that leftwing governments have had ideas which have enabled you to prepare a less restrictive and more progressive package, which i believe parliament can still improve, but we must work hard on this issue. and then, mr president - and this is directly related to immigration - you have spoken about the cap, but you have not mentioned doha; the european union is not a political entity, but a political entity. because, all of this is the same package; it's about harnessing our economic capacity to advance all of humanity.
mr president, as a spanish member of parliament resident in the canary islands, i should like to thank you for the words you have spoken, the memory of the victims of the accident of 20 august last. in doing so, i join in the expression of feeling and also hope that such accidents will not occur in the future and that the european union can put in place measures to ensure the safety of air traffic.
mr president, i too would like to thank you for the formal statement made by the house in connection with the very serious accident which occurred on 20 august in barajas, in which 155 people died. but i also think, ladies and gentlemen, that perhaps the time has come to consider whether all airlines are really strictly applying all the european directives with regard to safety and maintenance measures. i think the time has come, and i ask this house to do so, for the european commission to make a critical review of the degree of compliance that is being achieved in the field of aviation safety, particularly in the field of aircraft maintenance. i therefore believe that this is the time not only for 'logical' regrets and 'logical' solidarity but also for a critical review of the degree of compliance with the implementation of the european directives on aviation safety and maintenance of european aircraft.
mr president, my speech is about a subject which has not been discussed. in cuba, arbitrary arrests of dissidents, of people who do not agree with the dictatorship, are very frequent. the latest arrest was that of gorki águila, leader of a rock band, who has fortunately been released. but i would like to draw the president's attention to the fact that the dissemination, publicity and awareness of these arbitrary acts of the cuban dictatorship are necessary to prevent them from happening again. that is why i ask the president, when he has the opportunity, to convey to the cuban government, to the cuban embassy to the european union, our dissatisfaction, our disagreement with this type of action.
mr president, the european council met this morning to decide on three challenges, as mr kouchner explained to us. firstly, disproportionate reaction; breach of international law; invasion and occupation, which still continues, of a sovereign state; disregard for a peace plan, signed thanks to the diligence of the presidency of the european union, and recognition of the independence of south ossetia and abkhazia, which, curiously, invoking the precedent of kosovo, have been quickly recognized by venezuela, belarus and hamas: 'tell me who you are with and i will tell you who you are'. on the basis of these challenges, the response of the european council today has been very clear: we are at a crossroads in relations with russia. we must be serious, mr president, we cannot go on like this. the prestige and credibility of the european union are at stake, and the european union cannot simply sign the cheque for the great contemporary dramas. despite the excellent work of the commissioner, mrs ferrero-waldner, we as the european union are not just here to pay for the damage and destruction that the russians have done in georgia or that the israelis are doing in palestine: there has to be a real foreign policy. and i would ask you, mr jouyet, when the president of the european union, mr sarkozy, visits moscow on the 8th, just in the interests of consistency with the principles we practise and want in the european union, to send a clear warning and a strong and credible message, in the sense that flouting international rules and law and violating the territorial integrity of a sovereign state are not free in relations with the european union. this is important, it has to have consequences, mr president, and in that sense we are all very well off.
two things very quickly. first, i think i remember that mr jouyet lamented in the press at the time the influence of the conservative sectors, or some sectors, in the united states on the 'no' vote in the irish referendum. now we all regret, i think, a baroque apotheosis of neocon policies in the caucasus crisis. the responsibilities in this respect are well distributed. in tbilisi, with the incomprehensible decision to intervene militarily. in moscow, deciding on a brutal and over-the-top response. in washington, with a government happily out of office, which has fuelled for years some elements of tension in the region. secondly, i believe that there is a fundamental european responsibility, which can only be solved by building up not soft power, not hard power, but political power, which depends on the unity of all the governments of the member states.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission as a whole welcomes wholeheartedly the interest that parliament is taking in the common framework of reference, or, as i will refer to it in short, the cfr. the cfr is a long-term project to improve the quality and coherence of eu legislation. let me answer your questions in this connection. first of all, i would like to say that the commission indeed intends to ensure that the commission cfr will be translated so that it can be discussed and applied in order to improve the quality of eu contract law legislation and to make it more coherent. however, this reasoning does not apply to the academic preliminary draft. the commission cfr will most probably be considerably shorter than the academic draft. given the huge work which will already be necessary to translate the cfr, it does not make sense to spend valuable translation resources to translate parts of an academic draft which are not relevant for the purposes of the cfr. the commission is currently proceeding to select those parts of the academic cfr which are relevant for the final commission cfr, on the basis of its policy objectives. all the dgs concerned are involved in this selection process according to their field of competence, of course including dg jha. the final selection will be presented for consultation to the other institutions, including parliament and stakeholders. the commission will indeed ensure that the outcome of the workshops which were organised in 2007 will be taken into account in the cfr. the commission has always conceived the cfr as a tool for better law-making. the cfr should contain a set of definitions, general principles and model rules in the field of contract law. the commission has not yet decided which topics of contract law the cfr should cover. in adopting the decision on cfr, the commission will take into account the position of parliament and the council. as i have already mentioned, the commission will in all likelihood shorten the present academic draft and it will probably be necessary to amend the remaining text in order to make it useful for policy-making purposes. even if it is premature to say so, it is likely that the cfr should form a non-binding legislative tool. the commission understands fully that parliament wants to be kept informed of, and involved in, the ongoing work on the cfr. we welcome parliament’s involvement in the cfr process and we very much rely on this involvement. the commission will continue to keep parliament informed of developments in the most appropriate way, in particular through the parliament working group dedicated to the cfr, and will consult parliament and all stakeholders on the results of its preliminary selection process. once the commission cfr is completed, the commission will decide on the need for keeping it up to date and on the best possible mechanism to do this. i would like to conclude by thanking you for parliament’s support for the commission work on this important dossier.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i agree with mr toubon's remarks, namely that the work of the academic group on the common reference framework is clearly valuable and very serious work. but how do you go from that academic work to proposals of a political nature? on the basis of the use of a single language and possibly a single theoretical address. while acknowledging the internal work that has been done, madam commissioner, i believe that we must move to a later stage, a stage of involvement of parliament and the sectors concerned, not only of large companies but also of small companies, trade unions and other types of economic operators. the socialist group has tabled an amendment to extend participation in this project at an early stage, for which we would of course need a translation of the text, even if it were a summary text. secondly, that text can indeed be the basis of an optional element, but in order to do so, it must first be specified what the content is. in short, the debate must serve to let the european public know that the commission is working on a project, but the commission, as part of the european institutions as a whole, cannot keep the project in its own hands: the time has come for the commission to share this knowledge with the european parliament and the general public. i repeat: trade unions, employers, small businesses, other economic operators and citizens in general. the regulation of the contractual framework affects all european citizens and the drawing up of a possible substantive law code would require the participation of as many sectors as possible, which, without a translation into all the languages of the european union, would be impossible. and without greater involvement of other sectors it would also be impossible.
mr president, commissioner kovács, ladies and gentlemen, tax fraud, which is estimated to exceed 6% of tax revenues in europe, is corrosive to confidence in tax systems, the capacity and fairness of public finances and the well-being of citizens. it is a breeding ground for the informal economy and organized crime. at community level, it affects the proper functioning of the internal market, distorts competition and harms the financial interests of the european union, as well as compliance with the lisbon strategy. if a quarter of the world's wealth, which according to the international monetary fund is hidden in tax havens, were taxed, the united nations millennium development goals would be more than covered. the european union must fight tax fraud without hesitation. it is possible to do so safely, responsibly and without creating exorbitant burdens on our economy. the increase in crossborder trade and the effects of globalisation require a strong push for a european-wide strategy against tax fraud; national action is no longer enough. this strategy must have an internal dimension, addressing the problems of vat and excise fraud, and also the problems of tax evasion in direct taxation, as well as an external dimension, making the economic weight of the european union felt. we cannot let our citizens down, who scrupulously fulfil their fiscal obligations and who expect leadership from the european union. in this context, we call for the package of measures against vat fraud which the commission is going to present next october to be ambitious and for the report on the application of the tax on savings to be announced by the end of this month to be useful in making definitive progress in the fight against vat fraud in europe. we welcome the general content of the bowles report, and we congratulate him on it, hoping that it will be adopted in the house and that, if it does not improve, at least it will not be distorted.
the next item is the statements by the commission and the council on the social package (part one).
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, this social package can only bear fruit and be effective if we are able to agree on the essentials of the key initiatives. it is clear that unemployment is the greatest of all the social ills to be fought, the most destabilizing factor in society and the source of other subordinate ills. the best social policy is therefore one which helps to create jobs. we must avoid the false dilemma between solidarity and competitiveness, because they are not incompatible realities. but to make a sound and effective social policy and eradicate poverty, we need growth and stability. so our social model needs to adapt to the new reality. globalization also brings opportunities and those who adapt win, and those who don't, lose. europe is not facing a classic growth crisis, nor is it facing short-term problems, but is facing profound changes, and the well-being of future generations will depend on our ability to make good choices today. the ageing and declining population of europe is not a threat but a reality, and it is no use turning a blind eye to it. what are our responses today to its many consequences? very few. for example, we have no instruments or incentives to make flexible and planned retirement possible, allowing citizens to choose to work beyond the average age of exit from the labour market. achieving a uniform level of protection against discrimination and exclusion is essential, but the proliferation of european legislation does not guarantee the eradication of discrimination; therefore, work must be done from school to eradicate these bad social practices. failure and dropout are a drama today and may be a tragedy tomorrow. we are playing a very important role here, and it is here that we must put the intelligence and added value of the union to stop and put an end to this situation. in short, ladies and gentlemen, we do not need to give up our social model, but to renew it with greater flexibility, greater mobility and greater security so that it does not leave the most vulnerable behind.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i join my colleagues in saying that this agenda is a step forward, but a very modest one, and certainly far from the needs we have in europe today. i am sorry to say, commissioner, that you were wrong when you said a moment ago that this agenda would help to resolve the concerns of the citizens. the citizens are worried, and with good reason, about a european union which fails to solve the basic problems which concern them every day. the agenda has a grand title, it is the agenda for the 21st century. unfortunately, it has a characteristic that has already been denounced: it is an internal compromise with the contradictions we have in europe, with those who want more europe and with those who want less europe, and it is therefore a forest of rhetoric and a desert of concrete content. only three directives are being glossed over, and quite critically, by the european left. is this the ambition of europe for the 21st century? no, not at all, sir. talking about social issues is not just our ambition. the european union - not just europe - needs solutions and it is very difficult to achieve those solutions if, as the agenda says, the solutions have to be found at national level. at national level there are solutions, and at european union level there must be other solutions, and the construction of the internal market must be accompanied by rules which humanize, which prevent social dumping, which implement all the powers enshrined in the treaties. it is good to talk about problems, but it is better to solve them than to create new problems with directives such as the working time directive. commissioner, europe needs stronger initiatives; europe needs a much more belligerent agenda to be close to the citizens, and i hope that in the next elections - and it is not a purely rhetorical question - the europeans who are calling for other policies will give european politicians a new, more social dimension.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as my colleague mr luc chatel has just said, it is my duty to speak to you on the important subject of the digital dividend. on 12 june 2008, the council adopted conclusions on the commission communication entitled 'taking full advantage of the digital dividend in europe: towards a common approach to the use of spectrum freed by the digital switchover'. the termination of analogue broadcasting will make it possible to release frequencies in the uhf band, which are particularly interesting in terms of propagation properties. the switch to digital broadcasting therefore presents an unprecedented opportunity which must be exploited to the full. this is the subject of mrs toia's report, on which you will be voting, and i should like to commend her for the quality of her work. the total value of electronic communications services which depend on the use of radio spectrum in the european union, as mrs toia shows in her report, is more than eur 250 billion, or about 2.2% of the annual european gross domestic product. good spectrum management can make a significant contribution to the lisbon strategy's competitiveness and economic growth objectives and to meeting a wide range of social, cultural and economic needs of european citizens. in concrete terms, a rational and judicious use of the digital dividend will contribute to the reduction of the digital divide, especially for remote or rural disadvantaged regions. as your rapporteur rightly points out, it is necessary to reallocate the freed up frequencies as soon as possible. i can already tell you that the council broadly shares the rapporteur's view that a coordinated approach to the use of the digital dividend at european level will optimise its use. the identification of a harmonised sub-band for new electronic communications services will enable operators and equipment manufacturers to benefit from a sufficiently large market. this is a strategic issue for europe's industrial and political positioning. if europe can coordinate on the digital dividend, as it has done for gsm, it has a historic opportunity to relaunch a great policy for its industry and consumers for the next 20 years. the council nevertheless considers, as the ministers stressed last june, that the principle of flexible use of the digital dividend must be respected. this should be without prejudice to constraints necessary to avoid harmful interference or to promote general interest objectives such as high availability of the service or media pluralism and cultural and linguistic diversity. national considerations on allocation must make rapid progress, but the community approach must remain compatible with the national arbitrations currently under way on the reuse of frequencies if it is to be accepted. i conclude by saying that the council therefore invites the commission - and i know it is already doing so - to carry out the necessary studies and consultations in order to define a coherent basis for the coordinated use of spectrum. the commission is also invited to support and assist the member states in this respect. the council will therefore look forward with great interest to the commission's report on the results of this process and on any other measures that may prove necessary by december 2008.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, catherine trautmann, pilar del castillo vera, patrizia toia and malcolm harbour, for very difficult work and very constructive proposals. i would like to thank parliament generally, because the work has been very hard, and i know it has involved a very thorough and extensive preparation – hearings with the stakeholders and the consideration of literally of hundreds of amendments – and i know that you have also been working against the clock, but it is often in such circumstances that the best results are achieved, and that certainly applies here. no matter how adequate the existing regulatory framework is in many respects, everybody agrees that there is a real need to improve it. why? we have to reinforce the protection of consumers by ensuring that they can exercise a properly informed choice between a variety of competing products and services. we have to ensure that when member states manage their national spectrum – which is a very precious resource, as has already been said – they realise social and economic benefits because their management is efficient, transparent and flexible and because there is better coordination at eu level. we have to make sure that our regulatory system will facilitate and not hinder investments in next-generation networks so that europe remains competitive in the 21st century. finally – and this underlies all our endeavours – we must reinforce the internal market. this is not about paying lip service but about equipping the eu with an efficient competitive single market that brings economy of scale not only to the electronic communications sector but also to the citizens and to the wider economy. it is this economy at large which benefits and which has to be reinforced. let us take advantage of our european continent: let us get rid of the barriers that lead to the fragmentation and to less economic and social efficiency. all of these four fundamental subjects – consumer protection, spectrum, investment and the internal market – are very important, and parliament has understood that. i must congratulate parliament for identifying the underlying problems and having made the right diagnosis for putting forward real solutions. let me now pass to the internal-market mechanisms. that is where the stakes are highest and where the discussion ahead with the council still promises to be very difficult. i say this in spite of the recognition by the ministers themselves at the end of the slovenian presidency that we need to improve the consistency of the internal market for electronic communications. recognition is all very well, but what are the solutions? parliament has rightly seen that there is just one debate – not two – when it comes to the body and to the mechanisms for improving the functioning of the internal market, in particular the article 7 mechanisms for notification of national market reviews. those are the two sides of the same internal market coin – they belong together. we all know that the existing arrangements for cooperation between national regulators within the community framework – i.e. the european regulators group (erg) – have to be improved if they are to be useful. that is why the commission welcomes the amendments that build on the commission’s proposal for a more transparent, accountable and effective form of cooperation. above all, the commission welcomes parliament’s proposals for a community body. such a community body, with all it entails, has to be fit for purpose: it has to operate in such a way that it is efficient, fair and reliable, and also above the suspicion that it is perhaps closer to some regulators than to others. that is why, if we are to be coherent, we must also be coherent with the financing. national financing, in whatever proportion, will call a body’s credibility into question and will open the door to administrative and legal uncertainty. we know from experience that hybrid financing creates problems, so we have to avoid creating such problems. in this respect, i would like to warn parliament to be on its guard against what i call the belgian football club approach, which i must explain to you. you know that the erg was created by the commission as an adviser to the commission. recently, the national regulators established a private body law under belgian law to act as a secretariat to the international regulators group – the irg. the irg operates outside the community framework – it has a membership beyond the 27 member states – and in practice nobody understands where the irg begins and where the erg ends. the commission wanted to end this confusion by establishing a clearly defined and accountable authority. we certainly do not want a belgian private body, alien to the community approach and the guarantees it provides, to become involved in european decision-making. that is why there is still a need for further consideration on a number of legal and institutional issues concerning the establishment of the body, in particular its governance structure. we have to find the right means to safeguard the independence of the national regulators in a way that guarantees a community-based approach. but, above all, i must stress the fact that the body is a means to an end and not the end in itself. the body is nothing more than an instrument in order to improve regulatory consistency. that is why the other side of the internal market coin is so important and that is why the european parliament is absolutely right to reinforce the article 7 consistency procedure for notifying national market reviews in which, by the way, the body will play its part. parliament’s new arbitration mechanism in article 7a shows that the commission and parliament stand together in seeing the need for operational consistency mechanisms that will make a real difference. parliament’s solution is to enable the commission to step in to require a national regulator to change its regulatory approach if, after a peer review by the body, a problem has been identified. we have to discuss further details of parliament’s approach so as to respect the institutional balance laid down in the treaty, but what i find absolutely right is the logic of the approach taken, which is to find a balance between the interests of subsidiarity and those of the internal market, and then to draw clear operational conclusions. thanks to a peer review carried out through the body, there is a means to benefit from the pooled experience of the national regulators, alongside their sensitivity to what are legitimate local differences. it surely makes sense that when the body advises that there is an internal market problem, in conjunction with the concerns raised by the commission as the guardian of the treaty, then there should be consequences. in the interests of the internal market and of legal (and ‘legal’ also means business) certainty, there must be a power for the commission to require the notifying national regulator to change its approach in such a case, because we cannot accept that, having been through the very lengthy article 7 review process the notifying national regulator can say ‘thank you very much for your point of view, but i prefer my approach’, and to simply act as if nothing had happened. that is why i congratulate parliament, which is right to say that the whole process cannot simply end in a whimper. industry, consumers and taxpayers will not appreciate it if we build sophisticated and time-consuming regulatory systems which are not capable of making a difference. that is why the system needs to have a backstop, namely that ultimately there can be a binding decision of the commission. i mentioned earlier the importance of creating a regulatory framework friendly to new investments. that is why the commission, in its proposal, not only maintained but reinforced the competition-based approach to regulation as competitive markets drive new investment. that is also why the commission is grateful to the committee on industry, research and energy for trying to make the telecom rules more investment-friendly, especially as regards the large investments that are needed to modernise the old copper wires by putting fast optical fibre network into place. these outdated local loops – and that is the vast majority of european households and small businesses which depend on being connected to the internet – represent the choke point of the high-speed internet, the point where the information superhighway slows down to a crawl, and that is why i applaud parliament’s move to encourage infrastructure competition on these next-generation access networks by proactively promoting the sharing of the ducts that house the new fibres, and the risk-sharing of new facilities. these efforts are welcome and are in line with the recommendation that i am currently preparing to give guidance for national regulators on these issues. but the upgrading of the choke points in the high-speed internet must not become a new and enduring bottleneck for competition in the future, and we have plenty of evidence that the transition to fibre will make the business case for alternative investors much more difficult, because unbundling of fibre is currently neither technically nor economically possible, which means that alternative operators must invest in their own fibre or use a bitstream service of the incumbent. we have to face the facts: in many geographical zones, where infrastructure competition proves not to be feasible, appropriate regulation will continue to be the only way to keep competition alive. competition brings lower prices, better quality of services and more choice, so that consumers are the real winners. but i do not kid myself. i can see that parliament shares these concerns. choice needs to be real; consumers need to be empowered to make the best out of competition, and to be empowered means they need to be informed. that is why the enhanced ability to switch your supplier is so important. i welcome parliament’s support on the need to ensure that number portability is completed within one day. if it can happen in australia within two hours, then one day should be entirely feasible in europe. i also welcome the clarity that parliament has added with the changes on enhanced consumer information, so that consumers really know what service they are getting from their providers and can make useful comparisons. this enhanced transparency also serves to support the open architecture of the internet, which we underline; which we want; which we defend. if there are any restrictions on accessing the internet, it is imperative that the consumers are clearly informed of what those restrictions are, and i am glad to see that both the commission and parliament stand in agreement on these points. however, what i find more difficult is to understand why parliament has changed the text in such a way that subscribers are not similarly empowered and informed when it comes to the privacy of their personal data. i know that parliament takes the protection of consumers and of citizens’ fundamental rights very seriously, and that is why i am so surprised that the breach notification requirements in the commission’s proposals are diluted by the changes now on the table. the default position should be that subscribers know of a breach of security concerning their personal data so that they can take precautions, and it cannot be left to the service provider to determine whether such a breach is likely to cause a subscriber harm – it is the subscriber and his own data which have to be protected. how, for example, can a provider know how sensitive that information is in an individual case? i would, therefore, urge parliament to reconsider its position on this issue. finally, concerning spectrum: i had no need to persuade parliament of the importance of this subject. that is why the commission welcomes the politicisation of the debate surrounding the spectrum issue. this debate goes far beyond the technical level. even if it will continue to owe a great deal to the hard work and solutions produced by the radio spectrum committee, much has been achieved by the radio spectrum decision. we should preserve this. but parliament is right: more progress depends on integrating a political layer to this process, so that the stakes can be properly debated. a more efficient – and that means a more coordinated – approach among member states brings about the prospect of a win-win scenario, whereby the achievement of social and cultural goals is enhanced alongside the great benefit for europe’s economy. important progress in maximising the digital dividend and other questions related to this can only be assured with the strategy and important political decisions agreed both by parliament and the council. so the commission supports parliament’s legitimate goal of greater involvement in setting spectrum policy and accepts in principle the changes parliament is proposing. of course, the council will have its say. i wish to signal that the commission will stand by parliament in this debate and will help the council to arrive at an agreement with parliament.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the telecommunications sector is not left to the detriment of the environment. in sum, this figure confirms what the lisbon agenda already established on the need to develop a european knowledge-based economy, where the great engine of this development is precisely the electronic communications sector. the commission has shown the same awareness and sensitivity when it proposed a set of measures redefining the regulatory framework, which was adopted in 2002. a number of markets have been deregulated and some important ex ante regulation is still needed to give a definitive boost to the competitiveness of the internal market. but i shall naturally concentrate on parliament's position. a position - mr chatel, representing the council, mrs viviane reding, representing the commission, ladies and gentlemen - which has a common denominator, which makes the position of parliament, in my view, an extraordinarily consistent, coherent and powerful position. and that common denominator of the reports drawn up by parliament and approved by the respective committees is simply the concept of co-responsibility. the report by my colleague, mrs trautmann, is based on co-responsibility. the proposal to set up a body of national regulators is based on co-responsibility. in both cases we have understood that co-responsibility is the instrument that the electronic telecommunications market in europe still needs today, and everything that has been proposed derives from this concept of co-responsibility, both as regards the interaction in co-regulation between the commission and the body of national regulators, whose well-known acronym is already bert, and as regards the organization and also the financing of this body of national regulators. as time is short and the discussions have been long and will continue to be long in the future, i must now refer exclusively to the body of national regulators. it is a proposal which is in keeping with this concept of co-responsibility and with the development of a basically successful market, which still requires some ex ante support in order to comply fully with the competition rules, and which is based on this cooperation between the commission and the member states, starting with the regulatory bodies. in this context, the agency's functions, structure, responsibilities and accountability, as well as its financing, are better defined than they are at present. and in that sense, i would say, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr chatel, that it is essential to maintain consistency and coherence. the cofinancing which i have proposed and advocated for this regulatory body corresponds to the concept of co-responsibility, which is the backbone of the whole proposal which parliament is advocating, both in mrs trautmann's report and in my own. what would not be consistent and coherent, however, is to let a financing mechanism slip through the back door that is strictly based on community funding, which would not correspond to the rest and which would therefore create a huge dysfunction in the concept and reasoning behind this reform proposed by parliament. i am convinced that parliament, the commission and the council itself are pursuing the same objectives and have shown that they are, and i appeal to the balance and the good understanding that we have had so far to continue in this direction. the sector we're dealing with deserves it.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their work. the committee on culture has taken this matter very seriously from the outset, because it is no longer possible to legislate on the electronic network or on the spectrum without knowing the reality of the content that circulates and uses it. this cannot be done on purely technical or even economic grounds, which do not take into account the objectives of cultural policy and the defence of diversity. the reality of a digital world requires us to work together, television operators and providers of electronic services, and to legislate for an internal telecommunications market, which has become inseparable from the audiovisual market. we also need a balanced response to the problem of illegal content on the internet, which puts everyone in front of their own responsibilities in a fight that must concern us all to protect both children and culture as we know it. i therefore support all these texts as they have come to us with the hope that our debate and the final vote will not be contaminated by insufficiently informed external pressures.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted a number of amendments. - madam president, the rapporteur, mrs trautmann, has said that intellectual property issues should not be involved in this debate. i agree with her because i believe that the protection of intellectual property, like the protection of privacy and other legal concepts, is already defined in other legal frameworks. however, it should be remembered at this point that the protection of intellectual property is still important in terms of the maintenance of content. it has been said that telecommunications are like great highways on which one can move freely; but on the highway, if someone commits a crime, the police intervene. you cannot steal a car, drive it on the motorway and then say that there is freedom of movement on the motorway when the police intervene. i think it is important from the point of view of parliament that we reiterate the importance of the protection of intellectual property, that we reiterate the protection of privacy, that we reiterate even the right of individuals to their own privacy, which is being violated at the moment by the big telecommunications companies.
it is clear that there is only a shadow of the ambitious project presented a year ago by the european commission. it is a pity for many reasons, because consumers need independent european management and not a club of national regulators heavily influenced by national champions. the greens are against turning the european communications market regulatory agency into a mere club of regulators financed by them, lacking in transparency and without sufficient control or veto power by the european commission. the independence of this new body is in question. it is also a pity that, because of the pressure exerted by the large telecommunications companies, access to large telecommunications infrastructures is not made easier for innovative new companies and duplication of infrastructure is forced. the greens are in favour of technological neutrality and functional disaggregation to put an end to the dominant positions of the large state telecoms. however, the european parliament has been too timid, influenced by lobbies, to ignore the interest of the most innovative start-ups, which are already providing much of the wireless services in europe and which favour consumers. i regret to say that, in general, an opportunity to add much more european value to the telecommunications market has been missed. we are particularly concerned about some of the dangerous proposals in the harbour report which clearly violate the principle of net neutrality as a means of communication, attack the privacy of users, threaten freedom on the internet and, above all, clearly go beyond the legal scope of the telecommunications package when talking about content, when talking about what is licit or illicit, legal or illegal, intellectual property, when talking about information filters. this package is about the market infrastructure, about the consumers and not about how to turn the internet servers into digital police.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, because they have done a good job. this reform meets the objectives set and is adapted to the new times and new challenges, both for businesses and for consumers. but let me dwell on one particular point in the harbour report. it is true that the rapporteur has done a magnificent job, but i do not think it is appropriate to deal with this set of final amendments dealing with the issue of content on the net in this site, in this directive, because what those amendments do, in short, is to allow intermediary service providers to be able to filter and block content circulating on the net, so that, in the end, it is the consumers who are going to lose their own anonymity. ladies and gentlemen, that is contrary to article 12 of the electronic commerce directive, which already states that intermediary service providers must act as neutral intermediaries when transmitting electronic information. so in a rule of law we cannot do things on the net that we would not do in other communications. that is why i ask mr harbour to withdraw those amendments to restore the balance between copyright and the rights of the internet user.
president of the council. - madam president, at the end of this debate, i would first like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, and i have found that both the quality of your debates and your commitment to this subject are evidence of the importance of the telecoms issue in today's european debates. we are looking for economically strategic topics in europe today that speak to our fellow citizens. telecoms illustrate very well a considerable strategic issue - you mentioned its potential impact on european growth - but at the same time they are interesting, they are topics that touch the daily lives of our citizens and europe needs this type of subject. finally, telecommunications is a bit like europe with a human face. i would like to welcome the significant convergence of views which i have noted at the end of this debate between parliament and the council, particularly on improving the management of frequencies, on strengthening consumer protection, on the framework for the use of functional separation in order to avoid its trivialization, which is a subject which has been raised on several occasions. i would point out, however, that our institutions will still have to work on a number of points in order to reach a compromise. i am thinking of course of the introduction of the commission's veto power on remedies, of course i am thinking of the legal form and financing of the alternative to the european regulatory authority, its role, its scope of competence, which seem to be shared between parliament and the council. i would like to come back very quickly to three subjects: the first is precisely the question of the financing of this new entity which has been raised on several occasions. as you know, ladies and gentlemen, the member states have not yet made a definite statement on this matter and it is clear that the method of financing will depend mainly on the legal form and the powers of the entity. you know - as i said earlier - that a majority of member states are still reluctant to the principle of creating a complementary entity. the council will therefore have to strike a balance between the options which were discussed this afternoon. the question of next generation networks, which was also raised, is a matter of great importance. i believe that, as mrs trautmann has very rightly pointed out, in order to promote new networks, new generation networks, the first requirement is to continue to promote competition, in particular competition through infrastructure, which encourages investors, which encourages risk sharing between the different operators. you know that there are discussions going on in the council. however, there is an urgency to address these issues which require complementary and more short-term action. you know that there is a draft commission recommendation to this effect and perhaps the commissioner can give us some details. the third subject i was going to address, which has also been raised several times in your debates, is of course the question of the protection of personal data and, more generally, the question of content versus container. eric besson has partly answered your question on this subject, and i believe that the aim of the presidency is not to oppose one another or to impose a model, but i was sensitive to a number of speeches this afternoon to indicate that if we are building all this, this economy of the future, a source of growth for tomorrow, it is of course for the european economy, but it is also to enable our culture, our actors in this field, to spread more globally. so i think we cannot separate the two, even though i know that there are important debates going on in other circles on the subject. we must bear in mind that this modernisation of containers must also be aimed at promoting the dissemination of our content and the protection of copyright in order to preserve creativity in the european union. that is what i wanted to say to you, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, at the end of our debate.
member of the commission. - madam president, what do we want? we want all citizens, wherever they live, wherever they travel, to have quick access to multiple, safe and affordable services. we want all citizens to have access to rich content, reflecting the cultural diversity of europe. we want strategically strong companies to contribute to economic growth and job creation by developing new infrastructure and multiple content. and we want to see an unhindered internal market, making europe the continent of connectivity, communication and new technologies, but we also want europe to be the continent of consumer rights and privacy protection. that is what we all want here and i believe that the manifold, diverse expression of parliament is moving in that direction and wants balanced decisions to be taken to make it possible to reach a consensus. all of this, of course, was made possible by the work of the rapporteurs. i want to pay tribute to them because they have often succeeded in squaring the circle. it is a great deal of work that has been done by our rapporteurs but also by the parliamentary committees and the coordinators. in the coming weeks we must all try - the commission, the council, the parliament - to make this a living project, a project capable of developing our continent and of generating a consensus between the council and the european parliament. i and my colleagues in the commission will be the honest brokers to make this possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would also like to thank the commission, and in particular the commissioner, very much for the sensitivity she has always shown in her unwavering defence of a more competitive electronic communications market and consumer protection. i would also like to express my gratitude, first of all, to my colleagues who, both here today and at many previous meetings, have shown how sensitive they are to the importance of this sector for european economic growth and, therefore, for employment and the well-being of all european citizens. i would simply ask the council, in this final period until the end of the present presidency, to give this 'telecoms' package at least the same priority as it gives to energy - which is very important, but this package is no less important - so that we can move forward from this point of equilibrium which we have found and which my colleague mr trautmann has just pointed out. parliament is putting forward a series of proposals, which are generally fairly balanced, i would say, and which can be put to a successful conclusion in the negotiations with the council and the commission. thank you very much. we expect a lot from the presidency in that respect.
president of the council. - madam president, mr president-in-office, at its meeting on 19 and 20 june the european council recognised that the recent surge in food prices is a cause for concern, a cause for concern in the european union where the crisis is particularly affecting low-income households, and also a cause for concern at international level, particularly in the developing countries. the causes are complex: the first is the growth of world demand, especially in the major emerging economies; the second is the increase in production and transport costs, linked to the rise in oil prices; the third is the functioning of financial markets, speculation on world and local food markets and, finally, poor harvests in some major producing countries due to bad weather conditions. the general affairs and external relations council next month will return to these issues, taking into account the need to develop food security by working in a coordinated manner within the framework of the united nations, but also the international financial institutions and the g8. there will be meetings of the imf and the world bank and i welcome the establishment by the un secretary-general, mr ban ki-moon, of a high-level team on the food crisis. the european union will play its full part in implementing the declaration of the fao high level conference held in rome on 5 june. it is also obvious that the next sessions of the united nations and the world bank will have to be used to develop and ensure that there is a deepening of the work aimed at developing food production in the developing countries concerned. as you can see, it is, for the most part, agricultural policies, development policies, trade policies, that are at stake in this food crisis and that can contribute to its solution. the common foreign and security policy, to which the honourable member refers, can contribute to this, but in a more peripheral way, in particular in the context of the political dialogue it has with third countries to encourage third countries to the european union to develop better agricultural policies to contribute to the food security of developing countries and also to strengthen regional integration in the areas that are most affected.
thank you very much for your answer. i see that the council is indeed concerned about this issue. i would remind you that throughout the history of europe, hunger has been one of the constants, for example, the famous potato famine in ireland, which led to the depopulation of the island and many other parts of europe, such as the famine in ukraine. we are at a time when we have had a reminder of what can happen; we are talking about a community of 500 million people, who, for the most part, feed on products from abroad. does the council not think that the time has come to formulate a general policy for global food security and to include this policy of food security in the general policies of the european union in order to ensure that such famines are not repeated in the future?
president of the council. - i think, in reply to mr burke and mrs harkin, that we have every reason to be proud of this mission. this is the biggest mission - i remind you - of european security and defence policy that has ever been deployed. we insist - in reply to mrs harkin - that a transition be made as soon as possible with the united nations and that minurcat be able to take over the eufor mission in the long term. the european union's special representative on the ground, ambassador brylle, is in contact with existing rebel groups. it would be a lie to say that everything is fine. i believe that this mission is absolutely necessary, that it really does bring everything it can to the displaced populations, to the suffering populations. we are facing a real humanitarian tragedy, but it is also true that the mission still lacks the means - as we keep saying and deploring - and that strengthening these means is still at the heart of the council's concerns before the united nations can take over. it will be a long-term endeavour anyway. we therefore prefer, in reply to mrs harkin, that there should be a transition rather than an extension.
the following is the report by mr proinsias de rossa, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the special report of the european ombudsman following the draft recommendation to the european commission on complaint 3453/2005/gg (2007/2264(ini)) (a6-0289/2008).
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to comment on the honourable member's speech and to comment in general on the case under consideration. the complaint concerning the working time directive relates to the simap and jaeger judgments of the court of justice on standby time, as already mentioned. this is a question that the directive did not specifically address. moreover, the court's interpretation has, according to many member states, raised major problems and had a far-reaching impact on the financing and organisation of public health and care and rescue services. in order to address the difficulties caused by these judgments, the commission held extensive consultations in 2004. it concluded that the appropriate solution was to propose an amending legislation to clarify the application of the directive in the field of standby time and compensatory rest periods. this amending legislation was submitted by the commission in 2004. in view of the exceptional importance of these issues for public health and care services, the commission decided in 2004 not to initiate infringement proceedings in cases where the law is changed by the proposed amendment. the commission acknowledges that the time limit is exceptionally long in this case, but i have explained the reasons. as the existing acquis remains in force until the entry into force of the amending legislative proposal, the commission left open both this particular complaint and other complaints related to this issue. it then continued to initiate infringement proceedings in justified cases in relation to complaints concerning the working time directive but not falling within the scope of the proposed amendment. the commission also continues to closely monitor and analyse subsequent changes to the national rules in force in all member states, the reaction of legislators, national courts and social partners to the court's decisions. this is very important because the issues raised in the particular complaint addressed by the report are actually relevant to more than one member state. the commission will present a detailed report to parliament shortly, within a period of about two months, on the application of the working time directive, providing comprehensive and up-to-date information on compliance with the acquis, including the simap-jaeger judgments in all 27 member states. the report already contains a response to some of the suggestions in the current report. as regards the findings concerning the management of infringement proceedings in general, the commission considers that, given the specific context of complaints under the working time directive concerning the adjustment of standby time, it is not appropriate to draw general conclusions from them concerning the management of infringement proceedings normally carried out by the commission. the one-year time limit for deciding on complaints received by the commission is generally appropriate, but it is explicitly set as a general principle that cannot be applied in all cases.
the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. mr president, mr commissioner, i speak for myself, but also for the 34 members of the committee on employment who voted in favour of the own-initiative report we prepared for this debate last may. and we all agree with the report and we value and appreciate what mr de rossa has done, and he has our full support. we want to say, in a few moments, that we are concerned not only about the substance of the question of medical watches and the working time directive, but because we are faced with a situation that worries us: european citizens do not receive an answer when they ask the commission for information. secondly, we are concerned that the commission seems to think that there is a vacatio legis when it initiates procedures for amending directives. although i have very little time, i keep telling the commissioner that, whatever we think or whatever the commission thinks about the case law or the law in force, its obligation is to apply the treaties and to go ahead, and that it has no capacity to suspend any rule or anything that affects the community acquis.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mrs iratxe garcía pérez, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on equality between women and men - 2008 (2008/2047 (ini)) (a6-0325/2008).
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the promotion of equal opportunities for men and women in the european union is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. it is true that we should also point out that this report presented by the commission has focused on labour issues, without taking into account many other issues and problematic realities concerning women, which we have therefore tried to incorporate into this report by parliament. i would also like to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to the improvement of the report originally presented. there is a common agreement that, despite progress, much remains to be done. in this sense, complacency would be our greatest enemy. if we are not aware of the challenges and the work that remains to be done, we will hardly make progress in equality. the report's approach is based on the principle of transversality, and it raises a number of issues which affect this principle. all of them are important and we cannot ignore any of them: the integration of women into the labour market, gender violence, women in education, reconciliation of family and work life and vulnerable sectors such as immigrant women or disabled people. all these elements must be taken into account and deserve thorough work and analysis, but i would like to focus my time on the aspects which i consider most important. with regard to gender-based violence, we are talking about the greatest social scourge that exists at the moment, not only in europe, but throughout the world. a social injustice in which women, for the mere fact of being women, are suffering violence from men, because in society macho values are still quite entrenched. it is therefore necessary to promote legislation in the member states to combat this social scourge. the clearest example is in spain, where the law against gender violence was incorporated into national legislation a few years ago, which recognizes the rights of battered women and implements a comprehensive policy, from prevention to treatment and integration of these women. with regard to women and the labour market, we must be aware that we are still far from meeting the objectives of the lisbon strategy. women's employment has increased, but we still have much higher female unemployment figures than men's, and therefore policy measures must be incorporated, both by the european commission and the member states, to encourage women's entry into the labour market on equal terms with men. and another reality, which we cannot ignore, is the wage gap, which has remained at 15% since 2003. more concerted action with employers and trade unions is needed. in this report we also propose that the community institutions and the member states declare 22 february as international day for equal pay. it's 52 days a year that a woman would need to work overtime to earn the same salary as a man. with regard to reconciling family and working life, the reality needs to be changed, as 85% of informal carers are currently women. we need more public services for childcare and dependent persons. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the electoral quotas have been a decisive step which must continue on the road to parity democracy. there are other fundamental elements - such as access to education, breaking social stereotypes, the issue and problems of women in rural areas - that we cannot ignore. we must join forces in this regard. working closely with the organisations and implementing the fundamental principle of equality between men and women in the european union, because in this way we will be moving towards a europe with more rights and greater social justice.
opinion of the committee on culture and education. - mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her good approach in drafting this report on equality between men and women. as rapporteur for the committee on culture, i would like to highlight the main contributions we have made in this committee, obviously relating to areas of our competence such as education, culture, sport and communication. firstly, we have proposed to promote equal behaviour in schools and to eliminate gender stereotypes which are still too widespread in some media; to take measures to change the existing segregation of work between the different stages of schooling, so that the participation of teachers of both sexes is balanced at each stage; to eliminate any discrimination in terms of pay on the basis of sex in the fields of education, culture, sport and communication, as well as to promote greater participation of women in the governing bodies of these sectors, where their presence is still minority. as the rapporteur has said, there is still a long way to go. and here, i remember the verse of machado that says "walker there is no way, you make way by walking" because, friends, equality we will achieve to the extent that we fight for it.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i would of course like to begin by congratulating my friend and colleague mrs iratxe garcía on her work on this report, which i consider both important and comprehensive. i would also like to highlight at least four of the points mentioned in the report, which the rapporteur herself has mentioned in her speech, and which are obviously also important for my group. the first is the need for the european institutions to take a step forward in the face of the current wave of gender-based violence, both in terms of legislation and in establishing a clear legal basis to combat all forms of violence against women, which should include, for example, the recognition of the right to asylum on grounds of gender-based persecution. secondly, in order to ensure greater participation of women in decision-making, all the institutions, as well as the political parties, need to study and take concrete measures in this regard, including the use of electoral quotas. thirdly, it must be recognized once and for all that, in order to guarantee the full emancipation of women, it is essential that they are the ones who decide on their rights in matters of sexual and reproductive health. and fourthly, while regretting the lack of progress in recent years on the gender pay gap, the famous and already well-known pegab, the commission and the member states must assess the strategies and actions which, in collaboration with the social partners, should make it possible to correct this situation.
member of the commission. - ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your discussion. in general, when we look at the development, we can see that there is some progress, but ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear that we are far from the goal. this is also why the commission is trying to act in a comprehensive way, using all the tools at its disposal. i mentioned, for example, the legislative proposals already in place or the intention to tighten sanctions for trafficking in human beings. i would also like to point out that the quest for equality has, of course, its deep ethical reasons, and even if we were to find no reasons in terms of the balance of society, in terms of the stability of social systems, in terms of the economy, it would still be necessary and right to be consistent. but i want to say that real equality of opportunity is an asset, it is an advantage for the european union, and no society that fails to achieve equality of opportunity has any future in global competition in the long term. so not only is it fair and ethical, it's also beneficial. i think that for this reason too it is very important that we move forward and not be satisfied with developments which certainly in some aspects we can interpret as progress, but on the other hand we find very many things where our results are still modest.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i welcome the words of all the colleagues who have spoken on this point, because i think it can be seen that, despite the nuances and certain differences, the common objective is shared by each and every one of us. i would also like to say to the commissioner that i am very pleased with his speech, with the words he has spoken throughout this debate. we would each and every one of us sign your entire speech. so i am pleased to say that what is left now is the real political will to implement all the initiatives currently on the table. we shall therefore have this parliament on our side if we continue to insist and persist in the commitment to carry out all these initiatives. i simply want to raise one question: the importance of the role of men in the fight for equality between men and women. involving men in this work is essential. the fact that there are colleagues here today who have taken part in this debate i think may be a reflection that men too must stand with women in the fight for equality. and i would like to end by mentioning a point made in this debate by a colleague, who referred to the fact that women still speak in the same way as in the 19th century. i would like to point out that in my country, in the 19th century, women were demanding the right to vote, they could not even vote. so, it's a clear difference. much progress has been made - we cannot deny it. we have to thank all those women, those organizations, who have worked for the struggle for equality. but that cannot mean denying the evidence: there is still a long way to go, that we still have a lot of work to do. with the insistence of all of us, we must achieve real and effective equality between men and women.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the european network and information security agency (enisa) by giles chichester and angelika niebler, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats (o-0060/2008 - b6-0159/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the ep and the rapporteur, mrs svensson, for addressing a very delicate issue on how marketing and advertising affects equality between men and women. advertising plays an important role in the financing of the media. it reduces the cover price of magazines and newspapers and ensures that much audiovisual content is available free to consumers. this is important for freedom of expression and diversity, a question which is often debated in this house. what we have seen over the years is an accumulation of bans or controls on advertising – cigarettes, alcohol, fatty food – and soon there will be new rules for how car manufacturers advertise co2 emissions. advertising is a soft target because it is much easier to regulate it than to address the underlying problems, which are often more complex – though the report which we are discussing tonight favours further controls on advertising, this time from the subjective area of gender politics. as media commissioner, i recognise the underlying policy concerns, but i also wonder what will be the impact of these concerns if they are carried out on a whole industry and on the general public. as it has become more difficult to advertise because there is less money and because of all the bans, advertisers have reduced the role of advertising in their marketing expenditure. there are other ways to market products without advertising them in the media: product promotion for instance. that is very bad for media pluralism, because most of all the written press – the newspapers and the magazines – do not get enough income in order to continue to be published. the report does not take into account the positive aspects that support the objectives of the report in order to protect citizens. let me give you some examples. article 3 of the audiovisual media service directive contains strong wording on human dignity and non-discrimination in relation to audiovisual advertising. the commission, i can assure you, will ensure that member states’ transposition of this directive reflect what the legislator wanted. neither does the report underline the valuable role that self-regulation has played. let me give you an example here, too. you should be aware that it has been responded to well in cases of, and i quote: ‘objectionable stereotyping’, and i will give you a very concrete example. the fashion industry has stopped its ‘porno-chic’ campaigns, which stigmatised women as pure sex objects. so there are legislative measures in order to solve the problems. we should have, in this respect, a very realistic approach. advertising is a short-form medium, glimpsed on a page or in a 30-second video spot. what the report calls ‘stereotyping’ may be just a quick way to link a product to a particular group of consumers. it can also reflect poor creative work. there is, on the other hand, good advertising and bad advertising, and as media commissioner i have to accept that the freedom of expression also includes the right to fail – even to fail badly – even if we do not like it. if i asked the plenary here to take a decision on that, i think that the right to fail would not be hampered. as the report acknowledges, there is no conclusive research that links stereotyping with gender inequality. policy-making requires a strong evidence base, not just strongly-held views, and that is what we are basing our policy proposals on and why the commission supports the positive recommendations made in the ep report. best-practice exchange, for instance, among the regulators is something that we always encourage. education, research and further debates should certainly continue. i would like to underline that for nine years now, as media commissioner, i have been pleading for courses in schools on media literacy. i believe that this would be the most important thing: if we could awaken the critical appraisal of youngsters in order to read advertisements, to reject the bad advertisements, something which is really not relevant to our society. i would like to concentrate on best practice, for instance i like the spanish example of awards for advertising that handle gender issues well. that is the right way to proceed, and that is why we should accentuate the positive and see whether we can make further progress, because it is worthwhile fighting for this.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, one's own freedom ends where the freedom of others begins, and a society is freer the freer its media are, and the loss of freedom begins precisely with the cuts in advertising and continues in editorial content. the european people's party has therefore tabled amendments to this report to correct certain totalitarian deviations from the principle of a free society. european marketing and advertising already practice self-regulation and there is sufficient legislation in the member states. marketing and advertising are not just in the media, they are part of our daily lives and, fortunately, they have excellent professionals who, for the most part, are aware of the power they hold in social balances. the european people's party will therefore vote against the amendments and paragraphs tabled by the communists, because they cast doubt on the widespread machismo and sexism among workers in this sector, and that is a fallacy. the european people's party believes in equality between men and women, but we believe that it must be defended without discrediting anyone. we believe that childhood and youth should be protected and that children and young people should be educated by their families and society as a whole. educated in values that allow them to be better people. the sectarian use of equality which is intended in this report is a serious mistake and the people's party will certainly not accept it. we look forward to putting our amendments forward so that we can support the report. i shall abstain in the final vote out of respect for the subsidiarity of the member states and out of respect for the professionals in the marketing and advertising sector. i do not think that criticising national legislation and going beyond the powers of this parliament is good for us, because it will undermine our credibility in the future.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, i wonder what we are waiting for to introduce a moratorium on the cloning of animals for food? what are we waiting for to apply the precautionary principle and prevent the importation of cloned animals? what are we waiting for to stop treating animals as mere objects and inflicting unnecessary suffering on them? dolly the sheep died sick, deformed. the dolly sheep experiment was a failure. however, it seems that we have not learned from the experience. cloning can reduce genetic diversity; it can make animals more vulnerable to disease; it can create a situation of more suffering for sentient, suffering and painful beings, like our animal brothers and sisters.
the rapporteur. - mr president, on my group's voting list, in amendment no 5, we proposed to vote in favour if the authors of the amendment accepted that it was an amendment of addition. in the discussions we have had, they do not accept this proposal; we would therefore like the paragraph to remain as it originally appears in the report, and we will therefore vote against amendment no 5 if it is not accepted as an addition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of a good report on a crucial issue: advertising and marketing, which are very powerful tools to make a decisive contribution to eliminating sexist stereotypes. all european institutions must put in place mechanisms to ensure that these instruments are used in a positive way to promote equal treatment between men and women and to convey a realistic image of women. special mention should be made of the commitment made by all public authorities to eradicate violence against women and of the role that advertising and marketing should play in this process. it is fair to acknowledge that many professionals are taking action in this direction, but this report highlights that much remains to be done, and therefore it is necessary to establish mechanisms to ensure strict compliance with these requirements and the means to give an effective response to complaints. the new european institute for gender equality should be able to have the means to exercise close surveillance over images and language and to eradicate violent images and those which subtly refer to women as objects of possible control and ownership and therefore susceptible to attack.
the next item is the report by hélène flautre, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the evaluation of community sanctions envisaged in the framework of eu actions and policies in the field of human rights (2008/2031 (ini)) (a6-0309/2008).
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the double standard and the lack of specific instruments for evaluation and monitoring which are so often a feature of the european union's external policy in terms of sanctions is one of the most serious threats to european credibility today. in many cases, these sanctions or restrictive measures, as they are also called, are based more on specific phobias or fears than on a clear, coherent and convincing strategy, the aim of which should be not only to guarantee the security of the european union, as laid down in the cfsp objectives, but also to improve the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, democracy, the rule of law and good governance in the world, as laid down in article 11 of the treaty on european union. this requires that we immediately undertake evaluations and impact studies of the sanctions system, in order to have a policy on sanctions systems which is both legitimate and effective. this is the ultimate aim of the flautre report. the basis of the report, as it emerged from the work of the subcommittee on human rights, is reasonably good and has some elements which i consider essential. for example, it is emphasized that the council, in adopting the basic principles mentioned above on the use of restrictive measures, undertook to do so within the framework of the global approach in which tools such as the clauses on human rights and democracy, the system of generalized preferences or development aid must be included. it also reiterates its call for the council of the european union to adopt immediately a common position on arms export controls, which would make the current code of conduct on arms exports legally binding, as we have also repeatedly done in this house in the past. however, at the time some aspects were left out of the report which i consider to be key and which i hope can be incorporated into the debate and vote in the plenary tomorrow. firstly, with regard to blacklists and in the context of the fight against terrorism, these must be reviewed in order to ensure that the human rights and fundamental legal guarantees of those on the blacklists are respected. and secondly, as has already been said, i am in favour of the commission having a network of independent experts to propose to the council, depending on the situation, the most appropriate restrictive measures and to draw up regular reports on the development and situation on the basis of the criteria and objectives set and, where appropriate, to propose improvements to the application of sanctions.
mr president, i welcome the reflection on the sanctions issue which this report raises. it is obvious that we must reflect deeply: sanctions have too often proved to be completely useless and, in many cases, completely unfair; too often they harm the weakest part of society. why should the fishermen of mauritania have to pay for the fact that suddenly someone has staged a coup d'état in their country? what's the point of that? the concept of sanctions and their application must therefore be reviewed and analysed. and when they are imposed too often, as the european union does, incoherently, sanctions lose credibility and the european union itself loses credibility. it is one thing to take account of one's own interests, but it is another to use that as a thermometer for imposing sanctions. it is essential to monitor the effectiveness of these measures in practice; it is essential to strengthen the intelligent methods of sanctioning so that those responsible for human rights violations are directly and personally affected. we learned from what the united states has done with north korea and with the freezing of bank accounts in macau. let us study this, which has had little publicity and is much more effective than many press conferences against this or that government. i therefore support this report, but there is still work to be done by the commission and the council to really monitor what is being done, why it is being done and how it is being done.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, this report very well highlights the importance of services in our economies and the importance of a progressive liberalisation of services. it has been interesting for this alternative rapporteur to follow this debate, which has confirmed why some of us are sitting in the centre of this house and not at one end or the other, why some of us are sitting here in the middle. what really separates us, to put it in a very sympathetic way, from some people who still maintain a rigid schema of what services are, of what can and cannot be private, from some people who still maintain an allergy to the idea that certain services can be provided very efficiently by the private sector, and often more efficiently than by the public sector itself, often regardless of the degree of development of the countries, from some people who still want to impose a huge burden of the state on the less developed countries, as if the remedy to all their problems was for the state to take care of it, without taking into account that this burden of the state is often what is behind the enormous force that corruption has in those countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is what we have heard in part of this debate. but i also make it clear, and that is why some of us in the centre are here, that we do not entirely share the feeling we sometimes have that the rapporteur - although he has subsequently been generous in accepting amendments from other groups - does not really have, or may not have on some occasions, the sensitivity to appreciate what the general interest means, to understand that not everything is subject to the rules of the market, to understand that certainly states must have, must retain, the freedom to protect certain services outside the market, in a pure, regulated way or, sometimes even, by lending them exclusively from the public sector. what are these services? we can't say that. even within europe there is no consensus on what the public interest is: garbage collection, education, water, funeral homes, cemeteries, urban transport and the post office have different responses to the weight of the public and the private, even within europe. but we must certainly understand that education, health care and so on have a dimension which cannot be subjected strictly to private trade. we therefore promote the liberalization of services, and we understand that by doing so we are improving the services that citizens themselves receive. it is important that the european union takes the lead in this respect in all its trade agreements, especially when we are witnessing the failure, whether temporary or perhaps definitive, of the doha round itself and, in general, of the multilateral framework in this area. the european union therefore has a major responsibility in demanding this increase, in practically forcing the liberalization of services, even in less developed countries, but certainly respecting their freedom and understanding that this must be accompanied, and i conclude, mr president, by very intensive regulation. in many cases, liberalization must be accompanied by regulation, by clear rules, respecting the freedom and autonomy of each of its states to determine what, for them, by tradition, by population reality or by the reality of circumstances, should remain in the public sector.
mr president, i would like to say to mr zaleski and mr guardans that, as you know, there is a famous painting by goya entitled 'the dream of reason produces monsters' and sometimes the dream of liberalisation, with the strict rules of the market, can produce inefficiency and inequality. and when we talk about services, that has to be very much in mind. for example, imagine a poor country where education is not working well and it is decided that outside actors should be brought in to supposedly provide quality education to the children of that country. how can we be sure that these private companies will not do so with the aim of becoming a monopoly or an oligopoly or of setting prices that are not affordable for consumers, in this case schoolchildren, and that they will also end up providing a poor quality education? who's to say? because it can happen. we would then not be in a situation of free competition, but in a situation of absolutely regulated competition in private hands. that is why we must say very clearly yes to privatisation of trade in services, but with a clear distinction between public services and services of general economic interest, ensuring that criteria and rules of accessibility and quality are met and that, of course, social criteria are well present. strengthening economies means strengthening states, states that are open to the rules of the market, but without putting citizens solely and exclusively at the service of those who are strongest to apply them.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr kamall on his report, which stresses the need to develop a market in services at international level, taking into account the different situations of developing countries, but without forgetting that the conditions must be fair for all parties. on the one hand, the great potential for the european union to open up new markets to its services sector, where it has a great comparative and competitive advantage at world level, the development of new avenues for the sector being one of the main instruments with which europe can meet the challenge of globalisation. on the other hand, it offers many advantages for developing countries. firstly, to take advantage of the european union's knowledge and expertise in this field, which is necessary for the development of its own economy, especially in basic and horizontal sectors such as financial services. this would facilitate the transfer of technology from european institutions and companies. a more favourable economic environment would trigger a 'calling effect' of investments from other parts of the world, multiplying the benefit to their economy. secondly, progress in the negotiations would improve conditions for both those who want to provide services and for companies wishing to establish themselves in europe. i would like to draw attention to the need for the ilo's fundamental standards to be respected, especially as regards child and forced labour, because openness with asymmetry is possible, but with respect for the rules of fair competition and fair play, without ever forgetting the interests of our companies. we must ask for more commitment, especially from the big emerging economies, china, india, brazil, always within the framework of the world trade organization. the report mentions specific situations with different trade blocs such as asean, the gulf states, india, korea. the report lacks an area whose level of development and economic and social situation are suitable for the development of our services sector, i mean mercosur, and within it especially brazil, whose report on the state of negotiations i have been rapporteur for in this parliament. so even if it does not appear in the main points of the report, i would like to mention it so that it can be included in the report.
mr president, i would like to congratulate us on the current agreement, which is based on consensus and therefore does not satisfy anyone one hundred percent. i would like to acknowledge the efforts of the commission, the council and of course parliament, represented by its committee on transport, its rapporteur and its alternate rapporteurs. i think that consumer concerns have been addressed with the problem of marketing information data tapes (midt), including also the train related developments and the emissions aspects, which are novel and respond to this new problem. i think the control system has been strengthened, and competition has been introduced. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. they are the channels through which 90% of our international trade passes, in addition to 40% of the tonnes per kilometre of intra-community trade. the ports generate half a million jobs and guarantee the development of entire regions. they are also key for regular passenger and ferry services, which provide social cohesion to islands and other territories that can be reached more easily and sustainably by sea. there is no doubt, therefore, that we are talking about a sector of great importance to our well-being. however, our ports are facing major challenges, including the increase in international transport demand, which is even outpacing global economic growth rates. in this context, it is worth mentioning the advances in navigation technologies, logistical telecommunications and exploitation, the commitment to reduce pollution and greenhouse gases, the attraction of new investments or the necessary updating of the training of human capital that manages and serves them. but ports also face the challenge of maintaining a dialogue and coordinated action with their respective environments, neighbours, cities and regions, and of developing the best possible interconnections and commonality with the rest of the transport modes, all for the mutual benefit and in pursuit of the most harmonious and sustainable spatial planning. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's ports are not affected by the crisis. the committee on transport and tourism, which appointed me rapporteur for this matter, wanted to draw up an own-initiative report which, after being discussed and agreed by the various groups, is now being submitted to the european parliament. in our analysis we have considered that european port policy should aim at promoting the competitiveness of maritime transport and the provision of modern, high-quality services, promoting safety, fast, low-cost and environmentally friendly services, thus creating a european maritime transport area without barriers. we believe that technological and economic developments and the enlargement of the panama canal will accelerate the current trend towards larger vessels and will lead to changes in international routes, and that at the same time in europe, where there are not many ports that allow the operation of large vessels, there will be a development of intermediate ports and also medium-sized ports, giving a boost to cabotage and inland waterway transport. for that future we need an integrated european policy to boost regional competitiveness and territorial cohesion, to redouble efforts to reduce water pollution and co2 emissions, and to call for the replacement of diesel fuel for ships by 2020. we need port authorities to cooperate with each other and with local and regional authorities and with associations in the transport sector, not only maritime and inland waterway but also rail, air and road. we believe that the legal certainty of the community maritime order derived from the international framework depends on the rapid adoption of the erika iii maritime package, for which we call for the utmost urgency and consensus. european ports sometimes compete with ports in third countries which have discriminatory policies, so an inventory of the points of conflict is needed. we believe that the necessary technological changes will have important financial consequences and that the regions should therefore be able to use the structural funds also to finance the acquisition of advanced technological facilities, the creation of innovative jobs and the rehabilitation of urban areas made available by the relocation of port facilities. we are in contact with the commission to publish in 2008 guidelines on state aid to ports, distinguishing between access and defence infrastructure, which should be exempt, and operating infrastructure and superstructure, and to exclude from state aid those aimed at environmental improvements or decongestion and reduced use of roads, and where they are essential, as in the case of islands, to ensure cohesion. we approve the extension of the transfer obligations in this respect, but instead of an absolute obligation we ask for an exemption for ports which do not reach a reduced minimum threshold of annual revenue. finally, we support the provision of recognized qualifications for port workers and call on the committee on social and european dialogue to take up these matters.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the creation of a european port authority, the european port authority, the european port authority, the european port authority, the european port authority, the european authority, the european authority, the european authority, the european authority, the european authority, the european authority, the european authority, the european authority, the we welcome the celebration of a european maritime day on 20 may each year, with an open day to help the public better understand the work and importance of the port sector to our lives and well-being. we call on operators to reduce the number of empty containers and on the commission to promote a single harmonised transport document for all containers in the european union, and to simplify customs procedures for goods originating and destined within the community to the same level as road, rail and air transport. and we urge the commission to continue its efforts to get the us legislation, which provides for the inspection of all containers we ship to that country, changed to be replaced by cooperation based on the mutual recognition of authorized economic operators and on the safety standards agreed within the framework of the world customs organization. finally, i would like to thank the alternative rapporteurs, all the colleagues who have spoken and the secretariat of the committees on transport and regional development for their help and their great contribution to the final outcome of this report, as well as the officials of the commission and of directorate b of the directorate-general for internal policies of the union, who have given us a very good report on this. i thank you all very much and i hope that we will have support tomorrow to put this important report to the vote.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i would first of all like to thank the commission for the logistics action plan which has taken account of most of the previous proposals of the european parliament. i also thank mr cramer, the rapporteur, for his willingness to engage in constructive dialogue, which has resulted in a more inclusive text in which logistics must not only contribute to the sustainability of transport in general, and of goods in particular, but also to improve mobility by including logistics solutions for all modes of transport and supporting green corridors as exemplary projects for mobility and commonality. i also welcome the fact that the existing conventional rail networks, which are freed from the progress of high-speed passenger transport, can be used specifically for freight transport. i also think it is important to include the important role of inland logistics platforms and dry ports, and to promote urban logistics by decisively strengthening the logistics part of the very interesting 'civitas' programme which we are celebrating. we also thank mr cramer for the emphasis he has placed on the logistical aspect of the priority crossborder rail corridors, among which i must of course mention the line which includes the central crossing of the pyrenees and which will serve as a future link between spanish logistical platforms such as plaza and those in the south of france. finally, i would like to draw the commission's attention to the proposal to achieve by the end of this year a programme to strengthen cooperation between the member states' national logistics plans, which would help to prepare more effective formulas to alleviate the current shortage of resources and to meet the needs of a key sector at this time, at this juncture, when fuel prices, the demands of the fight against climate change, the peripheries induced by enlargement and the dangerousness of working conditions in part of the sector make the implementation of smart, innovative and attractive solutions all the more urgent, which can only be provided by an ambitious european logistics action plan. that is why my group supports mr cramer's report and his amendment no 4 on multiannual contracts.
acting president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out the large number of members who have chosen in this debate to link up with other environmental problems and it seems to me that they are right and that by doing so you are in fact calling for more coordination, more integration between the various environmental policies. i have noticed, for example, that mrs ek, mrs țicǎu and even mr kuźmiuk have mentioned climate change, although they were speaking in a different direction, that mr wojciechowski has mentioned agricultural problems, and that mrs estrela has also mentioned the urban waste water directive. all these topics are linked, and this apparent complexity should be an additional motivation for us to look into these environmental health issues. yes, mrs doyle, the presidency is fully motivated to go in that direction. this is done on the existing directives, on which we are working - the ippc directive, the draft sols directive, the energy-climate package, since i have mentioned the link with climate change. through these guidelines we are, in a way, directing subjects, links, to known pathologies, such as cancer, which was mentioned by mrs belohorská. but there are also many new problems that are emerging, which have been mentioned by many of you, electromagnetic waves, of course, a subject on which there are studies - i am thinking of the interphone study in particular - but there are also new technologies that are constantly coming onto the market and which, in any case, force us to have an extremely forward-looking attitude. i also think about indoor air quality, which is a topic that has been brought up by many of you, which is indeed a topic that we should not consider as emerging because it has always existed, but which is much less documented than outdoor air quality even though we spend 90 percent of our time indoors. mrs ferreira asked me whether there was a link, for example in france at national level, between the grenelle environmental plan and this european plan. in the environmental grille we have been working a lot on environmental health issues and to find the same problem as those implicitly raised by both of you. there are both these known pathologies, these well-documented topics that we need to move forward on and in particular the issue of environmentally related cancers. and then there are all the new emerging concerns that we can go further on. in the environmental area, for example, we have plans to refer to all nanoparticles, to introduce a mandatory reporting process for nanoparticles placed on the market, or to better regulate, monitor indoor air quality and better regulate all decoration and furniture products, some of which are problematic for indoor air quality. mrs ferreira, you also asked whether there is coordination, whether there is coordination between the national health and environmental plans and the european plan. it is clear that a report like this is a problem. we are in a phase in which each member state is drawing up its own plan for its own problems. that said, it seems to me that some coordination could be possible after this first phase and that would be a way of preparing for the next stage, and then, finally, if you allow me, madam president, i would like to point out, in the form of a wink, that - without offending the men who are also present and whom i thank for their participation - it is mainly women who have spoken this morning and you will allow me to see this not as a problem but as an opportunity and perhaps a sign of hope.
member of the commission. - the madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank you for the constructive discussion we have had on the important issue of the relationship between the environment and health. i believe that this debate has been a very useful opportunity to exchange views on the progress made and the research in the most important thematic areas with a view to determining whether the exposure limit values set out in the council recommendation should be revised. the commission recently asked its scientific committee on emerging and newly identified health risks to review its opinion in the light of the most recent information in the report. the recent developments and initiatives undertaken by the commission on the specific issues of the environment-health relationship are very important and show that, alongside the cooperation which is under way in the medium- to long-term between the environment, health and research sectors, immediate steps can be taken to further integrate the health dimension into environmental policy for the benefit of both the environment and health. as regards the coordination referred to by one of the speakers, coordination between the various national action plans on environment and health is ensured through the environment and health forum under the auspices of the european commission on the one hand and through the world health organization on the other, in whose work the commission is actively involved. on nanomaterials, the commission adopted a communication a month and a half ago, on 17 june 2008, on the scope of eu legislation on nanomaterials, and stresses the importance of applying the precautionary principle in this area. the term 'nanomaterials' may not be directly referred to in european union legislation, but it must be accepted that european union legislation covers a large part of the risks associated with nanomaterials. the commission has concluded that the application of existing legislation should be strengthened and that relevant texts, such as specifications and technical guidelines, should be revised to ensure that they are better applied to nanomaterials. the commission will of course continue to support research in this field to fill any gaps in knowledge. the relationship between climate change and health is clearly among the issues of growing importance, according to the mid-term review, and i am pleased that it has been highlighted by many speakers today. this will be covered in the white paper on adaptation to climate change that is soon to be adopted. on a point which is not entirely relevant to the subject under discussion but which is very important for the energy and climate change package and which was made by our polish colleague, i must say and make it absolutely clear that any increase in electricity prices in poland, as well as in other countries which have regulated electricity prices, will not be due to the introduction of the auctioning institution in the european greenhouse gas emission allowance system, but will be due either to the need for further investment in the energy sector because there will be no investors if they do not have a corresponding prospect of gaining from their investment in the energy sector and also liberalisation of the energy sector and the liberalisation of the european union energy market. the contribution of climate change and climate change mitigation through the carbon trading system will be around 15%; i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. i must make it absolutely clear that any money needed to buy carbon dioxide emission allowances will remain in the country in question, for example in poland; and not only that, but poland will also have the additional advantage of about one billion euros that will come from the redistribution that will be made of the allowances that will be auctioned in the european union countries whose per capita income is above the european union average. so these concerns are not there. the only thing poland will gain from the system and the package which is being discussed in the european parliament and the commission. the action plan is an effective means of bringing together all those involved in the fields of environment, health and research at member state and community level with a view to taking the relationship between environment and health into account more effectively in environmental policy-making. this objective must be further pursued with the cooperation of all the parties concerned and the support of the european parliament. i would like to stress again that i am happy for the cooperation we have and the support of the french presidency.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 12 noon today. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on the progress of the framework directive on soil protection in the council by mr miroslav ouzký, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-0070/2008 - b6-0455/2008).
acting president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr ouzky, the sixth community action programme on the environment recognises that soil is a limited resource, subject to environmental constraints, and provides for the unambiguous definition of a thematic strategy for soil protection which takes account of the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of regional diversity, which everyone understands. in february 2007 i too, a little back to history the council held a policy debate on the commission's communication on the thematic strategy and on the proposal for a directive. in december 2007 it considered the compromise suggestions on the guidelines made by the portuguese presidency, which had done a lot of work on this proposal and these proposals took into account the european parliament's first reading opinion. unfortunately, despite the very important efforts of the portuguese presidency, it was not possible to reach a political agreement at that time. there were several types of disagreement: some member states questioned the very merits of the proposal, the need to establish community rules for soil protection; some member states questioned the need to establish a european framework for soil protection; some member states questioned the need to establish a european framework for soil protection; some member states questioned the need to establish a european framework for soil protection; some member states questioned the need to establish a european framework for soil protection. others felt that a framework directive should provide greater flexibility and allow, in particular, for the national policies that had already been implemented and were not sufficiently recognised with the draft directive as proposed. since then, the various member states have had time to reflect and france wishes to relaunch the discussions within the council. the opinion of the european parliament will of course be an essential element in our discussions, in this revival which we wish to bring to completion. we are aware that you have had to strike a balance between those who did not want to infringe the legitimate powers of the states in the field of soil protection and those who advocated an ambitious harmonization of community rules. we believe that parliament's opinion is a good basis for the development of a balanced package on which we wish to work. so today this work is being resumed, but it is too early to say whether it will be possible to reach an agreement within the council, and if so, when and on what basis. it would be dishonest of me to give any indication of this. all i can promise you is that the french presidency will do its best - i repeat - taking into account the opinion of parliament, which has managed to find a balanced position within it, a position which is therefore extremely valuable in this difficult debate. at the same time we are realistic, this is a very sensitive issue - everyone here has seen this in previous discussions - and even in the best of circumstances a second reading will not be possible until after the elections to parliament next year. so we are not in a hurry, we are taking the time to reach the most consensual possible conclusion on a subject which has already shown its great complexity in the past.
i am particularly concerned about the french presidency, and i am particularly concerned about her because i think that her intellectual capacity will enable her to understand that we are dealing with a completely new subject. the commission, following the usual practice, presented a binding directive, which was to some extent reductionist, but in parliament we realised that it was only through complex thinking, through systems theory that we could tackle a system as complex as the soil, which affects the capture of co2, which is the stage of human life, which affects the production system, agriculture, disasters, the creation of infrastructure, which affects everything, and we understood that, as we are dealing with 27 countries with very strong legislative experience, in many of them the directive could not be applied with simplistic criteria and a great deal of comitology. that is why, for the first time in the history of this parliament, we have drawn up an open, flexible directive, following systemic criteria of self-organization, understanding it as a new development of article 249 of the treaty, which states that countries must be united in their objectives and fulfil the same objectives, providing for freedom in their application. this directive respects existing legislation, respects existing catalogues, respects the bureaucracy of each country and does not require them to do anything new if they prove that they have met the objectives of the directive. and many of them have met all their goals, more than met them. but many members have not understood this interaction between freedom and complexity, that order is possible within the open system and that in self-organization there are open and flexible systems, and have preferred to run away from legislation that affects life and affects the earth. i do not understand how governments concerned about climate change can go against a directive which deals with the problems of soil, the earth, climate change, which promotes disaster prevention, supports reforestation, agriculture, productivity and respects all previous agreements. i repeat, we understand what freedom is, because so many people do not know how to live in it.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam minister, commissioner, all the important natural resources and resources, water, air, species and habitats of flora and fauna, have specific community rules, whereas soil, as a scarce resource - as mrs minister has just said - and not renewable, does not have any. it is therefore urgent to solve this imbalance which affects us all, and even more so in times of food scares or of debates on fundamental energy and economic alternatives, which are essentially based on the soil. the unfinished community legislation would serve to give value to the measures we have been advocating in the fight against climate change, in aspects such as combating increasing erosion, desertification, without forgetting the serious problem of soil pollution, or the sealing of these same soils by an unsustainable rampant urbanism, which is not only at the root of the current economic crisis, but devours a resource as fundamental as the soil. moreover, the involvement of the european institutional regulatory system in this area would provide an incentive to improve what is being done in the legislative procedure, by framing it in a coherent framework and supporting it with regulation and, possibly, with resources of european origin, which we could also 'say' link to the resources generated in the fight against climate change. we must not forget that the risks to this finite and non-renewable resource affect to a greater or lesser extent the whole territory in all the countries of the european union, with not a few cross-border effects. there are a number of member states - my colleague has just said this - which are not very inclined to standardise soil protection at european level. they must remember that what this parliament has adopted is a flexible, adaptable, ambitious legal instrument, it is true, but not overly prescriptive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of renewable energy sources. the role of soil as a reserve of raw materials and a carbon store, not to mention the co2 storage proposals currently under discussion, or the impacts that may be expected in the legislation on water scarcity, would also be very important. this proposal for a directive has been blocked in the council since november 2007, which is unacceptable. it is almost a year since this house took its decision and i therefore believe that everything possible must be done to reverse this situation. in this way, member states would have specific regulation for soil protection in order to protect the environment, but also to combat climate change and the deforestation and desertification that is taking place. it would also open up new areas of research, innovation and the application of technologies, as well as the creation of jobs and social opportunities and, above all, the improvement of the quality of life of european citizens. i would like to conclude by encouraging the presidency of the council to continue its efforts towards the adoption of this important directive. do not be discouraged, madam minister, there have been hopeful changes in the positions within the council, as we know and as you are aware, but we will not accept an emptying of the contents of this directive. madam minister, your president often shows enormous courage and enormous ambition for certain approaches and challenges which are strong: soil protection should be one of them.
acting president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i want to leave no doubt. the presidency is very motivated by this directive and is convinced of the need for a directive on this matter. i would also like to reiterate that this is a constant position, which did not start when i took over the presidency and i cannot ignore certain insinuations that have been made about this. in december 2007, when there was a first debate in the council, some member states - and this is echoed in the discussion today - were formally opposed to the principle of a directive. other member states had already been engaged in national policies on this subject and thought that a directive was a good thing but that the proposal that was being made did not sufficiently respect subsidiarity and did not sufficiently take into account the efforts that had already been made, including on very technical points. at that time france was one of these member states. however, today, as the presidency, and again in keeping with that position, we are very motivated and eager to reach agreement on a directive on soil protection. however, everyone has seen today that the disagreements were sharp and reflect quite accurately what is happening in the european council. we are working towards an agreement which we hope will be possible during the french presidency. it's not that simple, as we've all seen.
member of the commission. − mr president, thank you for the opportunity to contribute to this debate arising from the oral question from parliament to the council. let me state that the commission reaffirms its commitment to reaching an agreement on the soil protection directive, and will do its utmost to achieve that aim. the commission made its proposal on the basis of parliament and council resolutions calling for a comprehensive european union approach to soil protection. i remember very clearly, mr nassauer, that in late spring 2006 i received a letter from the german government with the majority – if not all – the länder in germany calling for a soil directive. we welcome parliament’s strong support for a soil directive, albeit introducing modifications to the commission proposal. i hope we can achieve the sufficient level of complexity indicated by mrs gutiérrez-cortines we regret that the council was not able to reach a political agreement in december, in spite of the enormous work done by the portuguese presidency, the support of 22 member states and the flexibility shown by the commission. i stress that, while this political impasse remains, soil degradation is continuing, as has been made very clear by the scientific community, for instance at a high-level conference on soil and climate change recently organised by the commission. i therefore welcome france’s commitment to restarting the work, and look forward to working constructively with france and the other member states to make sure that we reach a political agreement in the council securing a high level of soil protection as early as possible. however, the commission has to ensure that the final text can be implemented and that it represents added value compared to current levels of soil protection. i assure you that i remain committed to that task.
the debate is closed.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, just yesterday we were talking about the incoherence and ineffectiveness which sometimes characterizes the sanctions policy of the european union, and it is clear that mauritania is a clear example of this. the coup d'état which took place in that country this summer must be condemned, and we do so in this resolution. however, we also ask that political tensions be resolved within the relevant institutions, which are the ones that, at the moment, still have the capacity to do so. the international response should not punish those who do not deserve it, especially the mauritanian people, who are already suffering enough from the economic and food crises. we therefore call on the european commission not to cancel the funding of the civil society support projects planned under the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) and to reconsider the freezing of the fisheries agreement. we also call on the commission to engage in political dialogue, in accordance with article 8 of the cotonou agreement, with a view to restoring constitutional legality, and if that dialogue is not fruitful, then article 96 of the cotonou agreement should be activated, which would mean the freezing of aid, with the exception of humanitarian and food aid.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the iranian judiciary had decided to suspend the use of stoning as a method of execution. the immediate consequence was that at least ten women would no longer be executed by such a brutal method. however, satisfaction could not be complete, because it should be remembered that the proposal for the reform of the penal code, which is currently being examined by parliament, maintains the possibility of death by stoning in certain cases of adultery. in any case, the problem in iran is not just about stoning, but about the very existence of the death penalty, and that is that the number of people executed in iran remains among the highest in the world. it has already been said, and i repeat: 191 people have been executed this year, 317 in 2007 and only china surpasses that record. in general terms, we must condemn, without reservation, the persecution, imprisonment and often execution of those who are engaged in the defence and promotion of human rights, those who defend the freedom of sexual choice, as well as those who fight to abolish the death penalty, all of whom are often accused in iran of carrying out activities contrary to national security. there are many cases that we should mention here, but let me mention at least one: the case of the activist and defender of minority rights, yaghoub mehrnehad, a member of the baloch ethnic group, executive director of the youth association 'voices of justice', who was executed on 4 august after publicly denouncing the local authorities for his attitude.
author. − mr president, the two amendments relate firstly to article 9. we have a specific request from the unhcr that it not be mentioned in the resolution. i think that this is absolutely acceptable and, according to this amendment, i ask for the words ‘starting to notably work together with the unhcr and others’ to be deleted. please note that in this amendment we also include mr hutchinson’s oral amendment, in which he also asked for the opposition members to be included. concerning recital k, we also had the same request in connection with the same principle that i have already mentioned. here the words that we ask to be deleted from the resolution are ‘under article 27 of the fourth geneva convention’. it should also be noted here that we are also including mr kelam’s oral amendment. given the fact that this is a specific request from the unhcr, i insist that we should take them into consideration.
mr president, according to the united nations, trafficking in human beings is incompatible with the dignity and worth of the human person; yet every year more than half a million people are trafficked, and 80 per cent of them are women and girls; half are minors; and the majority are victims of sexual exploitation. on the other hand, a significant number of trafficked women enter the european union each year, according to the international organisation for migration. tomorrow, 23 september, is the international day against the sexual exploitation and trafficking of women. i think this is a good opportunity for us to commit ourselves, in this house, to reinforcing all the measures to combat this scourge which violates the rights of so many people and to fight especially against traffickers, against poverty, by offering improvements to expand educational and employment opportunities, also developing awareness-raising strategies in the destination countries, in order to bring the problem to the public debate.
mr president, i just wanted to add to the condemnation of the terrorist attack or terrorist attacks, including murder, that we have suffered in our country. the basque people have the misfortune of being the only country in the european union where we continue to suffer from terrorism, and have for decades. i myself come from a family that suffered 40 years of exile - the same time as francoism lasted - and if we learned anything, it was that no political goal was worth the life of a single human being. i would like to say, finally, that all of us who believe in the right of the basque people to decide are clear that the right to life is the most fundamental of all.
madam president, although the speaker before me is from a different political group, i agree with him completely: we cannot leave the financial markets to financial managers. this is like leaving cheese in the care of mice. self-regulation, voluntary codes of conduct, is useless. and what is currently saving european financial markets, as commissioner matridis has said before, is the existence of regulations, national regulations, because each of our countries has regulations that work and are preventing the financial catastrophe of the north american markets from spreading to europe. what's the lesson we can take from this? that europe cannot imitate the united states in financial deregulation. if we want to defend our economy and our economic and social system, we must provide regulation at european level, but not replace national regulation with supranational deregulation, as in the united states, which allows the managers of companies to enrich themselves at the expense of poor investors, pensioners and people who depend on that capital. i therefore believe that the lesson we have to learn is not the lesson of deregulation but the opposite: the need to adopt european-style regulation on all these aspects. this is the sense, in my view, of both the rasmussen report and the lehne report: the need for a financial regulation of a european character. there is much talk about a european passport, giving companies a passport so that they can move freely throughout the european area, but how can we give them a passport if we do not know that these companies are subject to precise regulations at the source? it would be to invite a financial catastrophe of a supranational scale once again. the rules of the lehne report contain some indications or recommendations, for example on the actions of the fund managers. we should know how they are managing these funds, and in particular what profits they are making, for example, from the buying and selling of shares. i think this is fundamental. transparency must be combined with very strict regulation, with the possibility of intervening at the right time, without waiting, as has happened in the united states, for the market to collapse so that then, with taxpayers' money, we can fix everything badly done by people who have abused this position. i therefore urge you, commissioner, to try to establish a genuine community system of regulation in these sectors, rather than going down the road of self-regulation or deregulation.
madam president, the financial crisis has shown that the different financial operators are interconnected. their behaviour has weakened financial markets and the real economy: growth and jobs. open, competitive and reliable markets are not something that comes naturally, as the european experience shows. the fragility of financial markets also requires political action at european and international level. it should be clear that innovation is not about reproducing the old practice of privatising profits and socialising losses, nor is diversification about shifting the costs of decisions by a few to society as a whole. the european union cannot stand idly by in the face of the current crisis. the rapporteur, mr rasmussen, has had the initiative and the lucidity to argue that hedge funds and private equities, whose assets exceed 4.5% of world gdp, are not exempt from responsibility to society and must be subject to intelligent regulation and supervision. i congratulate him on this and support him, as do the rapporteur, mr lehne, on his report on transparency.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need citizens' petitions more than ever to bring europe closer to the streets and to everyday problems. citizens' petitions are needed more than ever to ensure that community law is respected and applied. citizens' petitions are needed to prove tangibly that europe is useful, to prove that europe is not an opaque institution, but something that affects everyone in their daily lives and that we can talk to thousands of citizens. we are successful. the committee on petitions had 50% more cases in 2007 than in 2006. this success is a reflection of our work, it is a success that paves the way for the european institutions in general. my country, spain, has been the country with the most petitions studied by the committee on petitions. a third of the environmental requests in the european union come from spain. that reflects the confidence in the european institutions in spain, it reflects the work we have done in spain. but there are more and more cases of new member states of the european union, such as romania or poland. however, the success of the committee on petitions, the success in the number of petitions, is also causing some administrative and political problems. the committee on petitions lacks the means. there are more and more cases and yet there are the same number of people working in the secretariat, there are the same number of people working in the european commission to deal with these requests. the institutions must respond sensitively to citizens' concerns and must have the means to deal with them with dignity and speed. and sometimes the petitions procedure takes years and years; if they are not processed, the petitions lose their validity, and the capacity of the european institutions to intervene is lost altogether. the european commission's attention is also sometimes lacking in high legal and administrative quality. yes, there are petitions that annoy the powerful. yes, there are petitions that annoy the authorities. yes, there are petitions that, when bringing hundreds, thousands of people to the european parliament, are uncomfortable. however, this is the way to make europe stronger. last year we organised six fact-finding missions to germany, spain, ireland, poland, france and cyprus, which resulted in the corresponding reports. we have particularly emphasized petitions which reflect citizens' concern for the environment and its protection and those which refer to the water directives, the right to property and the rights of minorities. we have improved in many ways our collaboration with the commission, the ombudsman and institutions such as solvit to move forward with the resolution of petitions. petitions often depend on extrajudicial mediation, not on a solution which simply involves referring the case to the european courts. one of the most important cases of recent years, of 2007 and also of recent years, has been the petition concerning the baltic way, on a road passing through an area protected by community law; the european commission and the court of justice have already acted in an exemplary manner to avoid irreparable damage to the environment. other very important cases have been (and i would like to thank mr mccreevy, who is present) the valencian town planning law, where commissioner mccreevy and his team have been effective in defending the public procurement directive. other cases have been equitable life, the loiret case in france, the fight for water quality in france and the delicate question of child custody in germany. we now have some petitions, such as the one-stop-shop petition for the european parliament, signed by one and a half million citizens: we demand the right to deal with this petition, which has not been granted by the bureau of parliament. finally, we make some proposals, including the change of the name of the committee on petitions to the committee on citizens' petitions, in order to clarify the role and the primary role of european citizens in the committee on petitions. in the same vein, we are calling for the opening up of parliament to all forms of internet and we are calling for the interoperability of parliament's web systems, which currently closes the door to thousands or millions of europeans who do not have the kind of software needed to access the web that is being broadcast by my speech here in parliament.
mr president, we are now faced with a new report on the role and the normal functioning of the committee on petitions, and the truth is that it must be acknowledged that, report after report, this committee on petitions together with the european ombudsman remain excellent instruments at the disposal of european citizens to point out and ask for solutions to cases of misapplication of european legislation. it is therefore essential that our proposals maintain and continue to maintain the prominence of european citizens, even if we have sometimes, in some cases, encountered a certain dysfunction. sometimes - and more recently - the leading role of members - and here too i am making a mea culpa, like the others - and their political debates, even at national or local level, become too obvious through induced processes which, having not yet gone through the national circuit, can generate among citizens false expectations that the european union can solve everything and, thus, lack the necessary pedagogy that the principle of subsidiarity is fundamental for all state, local, regional and also european spheres to face all their responsibilities. i therefore hope that citizens will regain that prominence and that this will be done by means of more and more information on all the capacities of the right of petition - which exist, and there are even more - and also on how the other resources - local, regional and national - work, so that recourse to the european parliament, on request, will be truly useful and effective and will not ultimately prove frustrating. and i think there is a contradiction in some of the rapporteur's proposals: there are no means, we are told 'that is why there are delays, vague answers, duplication of cases', but it is proposed, for example, to transfer the register of petitions to the secretariat. i think that lowers the level of the range of requests and the...
thank you, mr. president, if you're part of the flexibility, i appreciate it. i therefore think that we should keep the register of petitions in the chair, because i think that we should not lower the rank of petitions and that would give and even maintain by that formula the visibility of petitions in our house, not just restricted to the committee on petitions. i am also concerned, and would like to know the commission's view - that of mr mccreevy, who is here - on the proposals by the rapporteur concerning the review of the infringement procedure. i wish you'd give us some insight. and also, finally, i am concerned about the paper of inquiry and conclusive evidence that is being talked about. i believe that the role of our committee on petitions and its missions should be to maintain the political and civic level in order to demand, precisely, that the other powers, the other institutions, function as they should.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would just like to thank mr hammerstein for his report, and also the committee chairman, mr libicki, and the vice-chairs, for all the work they have done in collaboration with us over the years. i trust that the spirit of collaboration will continue up to the end of this legislature.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank you for all the contributions which i have tried to incorporate into the report. as for the comments about the slowness of the whole procedure, that slowness is true. and one of the reasons for this is the registration of the petition: there is no reason for a petitioner to have to wait three or four months just to have a number for their petition. that is why we are moving them to brussels under the presidency and, with the help of the secretariat of the committee on petitions, registering petitions here. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. we in the committee on petitions are keeping a close watch on this failure to apply community law. we do not conceive of our work as interference at all. the fact that the polish chairman of the committee is going to spain is not an interference, it is a matter of european law. the committee on petitions is a means for citizens to bring an action before the community courts if they have already brought an action in their own country. i don't think there were any politically induced cases at all, at all. the important cases which have come to the committee on petitions have been cases where there has been a consistent breach of community law over many years, and that is why they have come to the right place, which is the committee on petitions. and as for the resources of the secretariat of the committee on petitions, they are important to maintain autonomy and independence. i will give you an example: if we consider that the contracting of a computer service which is not interoperable by parliament or the council and the commission is not correct, how are we going to ask the european commission itself for an opinion on the form of its contracting, without the possibility of carrying out an autonomous, independent investigation? we can't at all. that is why we need more capacity, and it is clear to all the members of the committee on petitions that the secretariat is overburdened and needs more resources.
on behalf of the green group, i would like to begin by congratulating both the commission on its proposal and the rapporteur, mrs batzeli, on a report which has had almost unanimous support, always with the exception of some members of our committee, who are permanent members of this report. first of all, i should point out that my country, the basque country, is celebrating the year of innovation this year. and all this is being done on the basis of criteria which were already adopted in 2007 and which i think would be quite extrapolated, at least several of them. in particular, one criterion would be to promote critical and free thinking in society. this year must be about that. a thought that drives the scientific spirit and the development of public reason to facilitate the change of organizations and institutions in our territory and their contribution to the construction of a modern, solidary, open and innovative continent. the year of innovation and creativity should also promote an open innovation concept: an innovation that, in addition to being based on internal capabilities, incorporates all its possible sources - users, suppliers and networks - and that, going beyond the product and technology, considers the intangibles and, in general, the multiple dimensions that lead to value creation. this year should also bring innovation to all areas: innovation that reaches all governments - and i do not mean just the governments of the member states and regions - non-state governments, which have a lot to say this year. and please ask the commission to take them into account as well. it must also reach all organizations and institutions, as i said, public and private, for-profit and not-for-profit, and all aspects of life, and especially it must promote social innovation and innovation in the service of environmental sustainability.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the following is the joint debate on the report by józsef szájer, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council adapting to council decision 1999/468/ec, as amended by decision 2006/512/ec, certain acts subject to the procedure laid down in article 251 of the treaty, as regards the regulatory procedure with scrutiny part two (com ((2007) 0824 c6-0476/2007 2007/0293cod)) (a6-0100/2008) and the report by józsef szájer, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, with recommendations to the commission on the adaptation of legal acts to the new comitology decision (2008/9620 (ini)) (a6-0453/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, on behalf of the commission i welcome the two reports from mr szájer, and my thanks to the rapporteur for his work. köszönöm szépen jóska. with the first-reading agreement reached on the so-called ‘second omnibus’, an additional set of legislative instruments will be brought in line to the revised comitology decision. this implies a stronger role for parliament – for you – and closer democratic scrutiny. the commission is really pleased to see that work has been advancing at quite a good rate and fair solutions have been reached between the three institutions – the council, parliament and the commission. with the second report, parliament actually invited the commission to present new proposals to adapt a further limited number of acts. i can assure you of the commission’s intention to examine thoroughly the recommendations made in your report. once this assessment is completed, we will be able to decide how best to respond to parliament’s recommendations. finally, let me also express the hope that the examination by the council and by parliament of the next omnibus will also proceed rapidly and smoothly.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the report by mrs marianne mikko, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the concentration and pluralism of the media in the european union (2007/2253 (ini)) (a6-0303/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like first of all to congratulate mrs marianne mikko on her excellent report. the commission shares many of the views expressed in this report. we are convinced that this resolution sends a very positive signal in favour of media pluralism to all interested parties, including member states and european institutions, including the commission. safeguarding democracy and plurality of expression – as you have said – is essential. we must maintain a good balance between the objectives of the diversity of voices in the media and the competitive strength of the media. however, earlier and intensive consultations indicated that it would be politically inappropriate for the commission and the european union to harmonise media ownership rules or media pluralism. subsidiarity is effectively a strong consideration here, and a one-size-fits-all measure or model would not suit the variety of situations. this is the reason why i think that it would be a mistake to over-regulate the very lively blogosphere. nevertheless, i agree with you that certain legal obligations imposed on the press, such as respect for copyrights or the right of reply, must in any case be respected by websites. putting user-generated content sites on an equal footing with any other forms of public expression seems to us to be a desirable aim. conversely, creating a rigid and special status for blogs seems counter-productive and in contradiction to the genuine spirit of the internet. the commission agrees with parliament that the european community’s competition rules themselves can only partially ensure the pluralism of the media. this is exactly the reason why media pluralism is regarded as a legitimate public interest by article 21 of the ec merger regulation. therefore, member states may take appropriate measures to protect media pluralism by implementing additional rules beyond the merger regulation. they must, however, apply national and ec law. however, as regards competition rules, i would like to nuance a little your statement on the harmful character of the concentration of ownership on media pluralism. europe’s media companies, including the written press, must be strong enough to withstand competition at global, international level. we are against over-restrictive rules on media ownership which could reduce the competitiveness of eu companies. situations are not comparable from one member state to another. there is a real diversity of situations. i am, of course, in favour of more transparency of ownership and of complete information being available to the public regarding the aims and background of broadcasters and publishers. this is a sine qua non condition to attaining more authoritative and reliable media. as you insist in your resolution, public service broadcasters are an indispensable element for media plurality. this is why the commission thinks that their public-service missions must be clearly specified and their funding ensured; otherwise great uncertainty will ensure. in this respect, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that the definition of the public service remit is, in principle, a matter for member states, rather than the commission, to decide. member states also decide the means of financing public service broadcasting, as indicated in the amsterdam protocol. in this context, the commission’s role is to minimise distortion of competition between all types of media. the commission also appreciates your position on codes of conduct and self-regulation as instruments to support media pluralism.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 25 september. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr thijs berman, on behalf of the committee on development, on the follow-up to the 2002 monterrey conference on financing for development (2008/2050 (ini)) (a6-0310/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to express gratitude especially to mr thijs berman for his report. it is very thorough and forward-looking. i think this report is very timely and can make an impact especially in two areas. one is the un negotiations in new york on the outcome document of the doha review conference on financing for development which should start at the end of november. secondly, the eu position for the negotiations in the united nations and europe’s own contribution to a successful outcome of the doha conference. this position is being currently developed. in 2002, as you said, monterrey was a success; the developed and developing countries joined forces and committed themselves to a concrete set of actions, the so-called ‘monterrey consensus’. the role of the european union was strong and decisive in order to bring about this successful outcome. i think europe has been serious in following up the commitments made in doha, and the commission has assessed the progress in our member states annually. in 2005 the eu reviewed and further strengthened our commitments. the most prominent eu commitments are the time-bound targets to increase the volume of official development assistance with a view to spending, by 2015, 0.7% of the eu’s gross national income for development. i think you all know that we decided to get there step by step with the first immediate target in 2006 – collectively reached by the eu. the next deadline is 2010, when our aid should collectively reach 0.56% of gdp. in june this year (2008) the european council strongly reconfirmed those commitments, a welcome and essential measure since eu aid levels dropped last year, for the first time since monterrey. this was a rather negative signal. against this background, the commission remains confident that the european union aid levels will increase again as of 2008 – this year. multiannual rolling timetables illustrating how each eu member state wants to achieve the agreed targets are an important tool in this context. we need to see the overall picture but also a country-by-country mosaic. since monterrey, the european union has also achieved progress on its other commitments. the aim of the doha conference is to assess progress made, reaffirm commitments, identify obstacles, but also find ways to overcome these obstacles. it should also be about new challenges, for example climate change and high and volatile food, fuel and commodity prices in the light of the global economic downturn and even financial crisis. the commission hopes that at doha the international community will reconfirm the global partnership on financing for development based on shared responsibilities between developed and developing countries. therefore it is not one way, but a two-way process. doha should lead to an action-oriented forward-looking outcome that facilitates an effective implementation of the monterrey consensus in all its dimensions, including mobilising domestic resources, foreign direct investment for development, international trade, external debt of developing countries, financial and technical cooperation and global governance. the report that you are going to adopt tackles a number of the issues at stake and provides a welcome contribution to the international debate. thank you for your report and for your attention.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mrs charlotte cederschiöld, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the indicator chart for the internal market (2008/2056 (ini)) (a6-0272/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, we have a series of reports under this new system, and i am pleased to be able to congratulate charlotte cederschiöld on her report, because this is an area which is not so easy to evaluate. the report is very important in terms of its detail and also of the further steps for the future it proposes. it is a report on the internal market scoreboard, although mrs cederschiöld has just been speaking about other areas, and contains many very interesting and useful ideas on the content and focus of the scoreboard in the years to come. late or incorrect transposition of eu legislation by member states deprives our citizens and businesses of their rights under community law. it also undermines the trust and credibility of the eu as a community based on the rule of law. therefore, timely and correct transposition and application of eu law in our states is of key importance. this report confirms and reinforces the importance attached to this issue, which the commission very much welcomes. the member states’ track record on timely and correct transposition of eu law has improved substantially in recent years, which is good news. today, 18 member states have already achieved the 1% threshold or lower transposition deficit target for 2009, agreed by our heads of state and government in march 2007. other member states are very close to this target of 1% maximum. it means that the average transposition deficit is at 1% already, which is well in advance of the 2009 deadline. these are very positive developments and the commission hopes that in 2009 the trend will be further confirmed. the internal market scoreboard has already played a very important role in supporting member states’ efforts. it will continue to do so in the future. there is a momentum, and this scoreboard is generating peer pressure among the member states to improve performance. however, as the rapporteur said, good implementation of eu law does not stop with timely and correct transposition of directives. those directives must be applied effectively on the ground by the authorities. moreover, national authorities must ensure that citizens and businesses can exercise their rights under the treaty itself, efficiently and effectively. i agree with mrs cederschiöld that the time has come to examine whether the scope of the scoreboard could be widened, and to look at other aspects of the application of eu law, beyond mere transposition. with its increased focus on infringements of community law other than late transposition, including more information on individual sectors, the latest scoreboard of july 2008 represents a first step in this direction, and we are starting to take a broader view. the commission is currently exploring whether more qualitative data on the application of eu law can be presented, possibly with a special focus on sectors where problems of good application of eu law appear to be the most acute including – as was mentioned – the energy and transport sectors. the ambition is to publish a more comprehensive scoreboard in the first quarter of 2009. i believe that this is very much in line with the suggestions made by mrs cederschiöld in her report. i also take note of the line taken and presented in the report on the relationship between the internal market scoreboard and the consumer scoreboard, and that the scoreboards should be kept separate. thank you once again for the report and your attention.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by maria badia i cutchet, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on 'improving the quality of teacher training' (2008/2068 (ini)) (a6-0304/2008).
the rapporteur, mr commissioner, i think we can all agree that it is good news to approve a report on such a topical and key issue as the quality of teacher training, which has no other objective than to improve the training of pupils in order to equip them with the knowledge that will give them intellectual maturity and a critical sense, while giving them the necessary skills to participate in an increasingly competitive and demanding society. this is a concern shared by many actors, from pupils themselves to parents, teachers and employers, among others. in europe there are now more than six million teachers who play this key role in developing the knowledge and skills of young people in society and make a decisive contribution to improving the chances of economic growth and improving competitiveness. the working conditions in this sector are now more complex and demanding: more heterogeneous classrooms from a social and cultural point of view, teaching focused on individual learning where teachers have moved from teaching ex-cathedra to being also managers in the classroom and demand for a good command of foreign languages and of information and communication technologies the so-called ict not only to transmit knowledge, but to apply these new tools in teaching. the data available to us show that there are shortcomings in the quality of teaching, a phenomenon which is due to the greater complexity of the profession, as i have said, and which makes it essential to invest more in teacher training, both in the initial and in the continuing phase, and to provide more support in the early years of teaching. there is also a whole range of related issues that need to be taken into account: marked differences in wages between countries and also with respect to the average within the same country, high presence of older workers, poorly motivating working conditions in some cases, low attraction of candidates to the profession, etc. this is the context in which this report is set, which proposes a number of recommendations which i will summarise below: first, it would be about attracting the best candidates for the profession, which is closely linked to improving the social recognition and remuneration of the teaching profession. the aim is to improve the working conditions of the teaching staff by formulating proposals to support teachers in their first years of experience; young teachers could in turn draw on the knowledge of older teachers, and these could reduce their contact hours with pupils and devote more time to applied research and the transmission of knowledge. it would also involve investing in initial and continuing teacher training, adapting university training to professional development and facilitating the upgrading of the skills and competences of the teaching staff. thirdly, to promote the exchange of good practice by strengthening mobility programmes, especially in the framework of the comenius programme, which is also a positive factor in updating language skills. fourthly, to promote decision-making at school level, i.e. greater autonomy, taking into account the different contexts of each school and the different actors involved in each school community: parents, cultural facilities in the neighbourhood, etc. this report, commissioner, in accordance with the provisions of article 149 of the treaty on european union, on education and training, is not binding on the governments of the member states. this is a resolution which would nevertheless be very desirable to take into account. fundamental issues, such as those affecting education, have a lot to do with the values of the europe of the future, with european citizenship, and for this reason i ask the commission to abandon this report, which comes from the committee on culture, and to exert all its efforts in defending its proposals before the council. ladies and gentlemen, we often stress in our discussions the importance of thinking about which country we are leaving our children in. we should also think about the citizens we are leaving behind in our countries, and education plays a key role in this.
member of the commission. − mr president, distinguished members of parliament, i warmly welcome this report, especially as i am the commissioner responsible for education. i would like to thank mrs maria badia i cutchet and the committee on culture and education for their work. like you, the commission believes that all member states face significant challenges as they seek to improve their educational and training systems, especially vis-à-vis higher quality. we have talked repeatedly – and i remind you again – of the importance of key competences as well as equity and efficiency in our systems. these challenges cannot be met or reflected in a full sense without a high quality in the teaching profession, which is key to all of this. the quality of teachers is the critical factor for the modernisation of our education system and the achievement of equity and efficiency. without such teachers, it is difficult to achieve any improvement. the particular challenges faced by teachers are increasing as economic, social and educational contexts become more complex and schools and classrooms become more heterogeneous and more diverse. in the debate on the first report this evening we spoke of creativity and innovation. we can only achieve higher creativity and innovation in pupils if we have creative and innovative teachers in our schools. we need to attract the very best candidates into the teaching profession. we need to give them the best possible preparation for their career and – most importantly – we need to continue training and developing all our teachers throughout their careers. this is – as you said, mrs badia i cutchet – about the recruitment and salaries of teachers. every teacher must also be an autonomous learner, constantly reflecting on the way she or he teaches, learning from her or his peers and seeking new ways to develop knowledge and skills and to meet the individual needs of pupils. every teacher must also be a lifelong learner. he or she cannot teach lifelong learning if he or she is not a lifelong learner. an initial education of three or four years can never be enough to equip a teacher for a lifetime of teaching. only if teachers continue to learn can they keep up to date and provide learning that is truly relevant to their pupils. i was very pleased to note that there is such a large consensus on these issues – as indeed there was in the council among ministers last november. we must now work to build on these good intentions and this consensus to put in place real improvements in teacher education. we need to encourage member states to invest more in developing their teaching staff. three or four days of in-service training per year is simply not enough. induction support for new teachers also needs to be improved and extended. we need to encourage member states to improve the quality of in-service training and ensure that it provides the kinds of practical teaching skills that teachers really need today and tomorrow. we need to promote school leadership. schools these days are major organisations affecting the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. they need to be well-administered and well-managed, but most of all they need to be well-led by a leadership team with a clear vision of high quality education for all of its pupils. thank you once again for your report and your commitment. i look forward to continuing not only our discussions, but especially our cooperation on this important issue.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by doris pack, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the bologna process and student mobility (2008/2070 (ini)) (a6-0302/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, i especially want to thank doris pack again. she is one of the founding mothers of the lifelong learning programmes, which are very popular programmes for student mobility. this report on the bologna process and student mobility is a very concrete contribution towards even better and even more mobility. as we all know, the bologna process is well advanced and will soon have existed for a decade, having become continent-wide. it started because we had already had a mobility scheme, called erasmus, since 1987, and most of its instruments became part of the bologna process. the two are mutually supportive and make a very important policy contribution. it is not just mobility for mobility’s sake, but for modernisation and openness and the internationalisation of our universities. the report provides a very comprehensive overview of what further actions are needed in this field. your conclusions are in line with the findings and recommendations of the special group i invited to work with the commission, which was the high level expert forum led by former minister maria joão rodrigues, who reported to me in june this year. both reports suggested we need substantial and concerted action to increase student mobility and, if i may add, mobility of young people in general: pupils; young people in training; young artists; and young entrepreneurs. i would like to see a mobility period introduced into all degree programmes to encourage students to go abroad, and for mobility to be seen as the standard rather than as a special case. i agree with you that the bologna reforms should be used to open up our higher education systems, and not become new obstacles to mobility. your ideas on flexible formats for courses in some study areas would be compatible with the bologna rules and deserve to be explored. i also agree that we should invest better and more, which means more effectively, in the mobility of our citizens. we need to combine public, private, national and european funds. i welcome the suggestion that ‘strengthening the financial envelope provided for the programmes in the field of education and notably for erasmus grants could be considered.’ that would be very beneficial not only for education but also, for example, for citizenship – to feel like europeans in europe, and to have access and opportunity and a real experience of europe. i am sure that parliament will take its responsibility in full in this respect. once again i offer my congratulations and thanks and recommend adoption of this report to the house.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr ebner, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the situation and prospects of agriculture in mountain regions (2008/2066 (ini)) (a6-0327/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, this is the last but not the least, of the reports. i can assure mr ebner, the rapporteur, of the importance of the recommendations in the report. i want to express my gratitude to him and to the committee on agriculture and rural development for this report, which really highlights the importance of hill and mountain farming to the european union – he spoke of a percentage of territories – but also the importance of farming contributing to environmental protection, delivering quality products and maintaining cultural landscapes as part of our european heritage. this is the reason why mountainous regions receive specific support under the common agricultural policy. this support is provided to compensate farmers for the handicaps related to natural conditions. furthermore, these regions benefit from several other rural-development measures, such as agri-environmental payments, for maintaining transhumance and pastoralism practice; support for quality agricultural products and promotion of on-farm diversification like farm tourism. the commission’s recent proposals, especially the health check, also address disadvantaged areas like mountain areas. in the context of the phasing-out of the milk quota scheme, special support can be maintained in economically vulnerable or environmentally sensitive areas in the dairy, beef, sheep and goat sectors. the report calls on the commission to create a global strategy for mountain regions and hill and mountain farming. we all know that there is a large diversity of mountainous areas with differences in the economic and social situations. it would, therefore, be very difficult to define a comprehensive community strategy and a detailed action plan addressing all these diverse situations. however, the eu support schemes on rural development and cohesion policy provide an appropriate and coherent framework in which member states define their own territorial priorities and the most suitable schemes to the strengths and weaknesses of their regions. this decentralised approach of the european union allows member states to have programmes properly tailored to mountain regions while ensuring, on the other side, overall strategic coherence. distinguished members, i cannot address all the suggestions in the report now, but i can reassure you that the commission will examine the conclusions of the report in greater detail. i should like to thank once again michl ebner, the committee and all of you.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
president of the council. - mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, mr jacques barrot, mr president of the committee on civil liberties, mr gérard deprez, ladies and gentlemen, this is the french day, it is also my day, and so i ask you to excuse the unexpected absence of mrs rachida dati, but it is an honour for me to take part once again in the work of your parliament, especially on the sensitive subjects that have just been raised. i would particularly like to express the council presidency's appreciation to martine roure and roselyne lefrançois for their personal commitment and interest in the fight against terrorism and data protection. with these two texts, your parliament is now in touch with the current affairs and daily life of our european societies. we must protect our citizens from terrorist threats, we must also guarantee their privacy and their privacy, this is political responsibility in the noblest sense. i would therefore like to make a few comments in response to the two reports which have just been presented. firstly, as regards the draft framework decision on the fight against terrorism, the fight against terrorism is a challenge for the european union, which requires all efforts to be combined. mr de kerkove, the coordinator for the fight against terrorism, whom i met a few weeks ago, also reminded the house that the activities of, for example, al-qaeda are particularly worrying. there were 583 terrorist attacks on european soil in 2007. so the framework decision you are looking at today is an important legislative step forward in combating the spread of terrorist techniques. it is not acceptable, for example, that a website can explain with impunity how to make homemade bombs. almost 5 000 websites are now helping to radicalise young people in europe on these issues and the slovenian presidency, as you know, managed to reach an agreement on these issues at the justice and home affairs council on 18 april. i welcome the report by mrs lefrançois, who supported the council's objective of including in the framework decision of 13 june 2002 the offences provided for by the council of europe convention. the commission's proposals are essentially in line with the amendments made by the council during the negotiations and, as you know, there were lively discussions in the council on this text. it is clear that this is a classic debate in democratic societies which seek to combat terrorism effectively while respecting the fundamental rules of the rule of law and the fundamental principles, such as freedom of expression, which govern all democratic life. so i would like to draw your attention to two points. firstly, this framework decision aims to make three types of conduct which may occur before the attacks are carried out criminal offences: public provocation to terrorism - i emphasize the word 'public', thus excluding the regulation of private correspondence - secondly, training for terrorism and, finally, recruitment for terrorism. it takes over for the european union offences that member states already know about through the council of europe convention on the prevention of terrorism which was finalised in 2005. the definitions of these offences have been taken up word for word in the framework decision with some limited changes in order to ensure consistency with the notions of terrorist offences or terrorist groups which have already existed in european law since 2002, hence, mrs lefrançois, the term public provocation rather than the term incitement which you propose. but the adoption of a text at eu level will make it possible to better control its transposition in the member states and to apply it throughout the union in a shorter period of time. secondly, the council has paid great attention to respect for fundamental rights. this concern was expressed at the round table organized by your assembly on 7 april. the council has been very sensitive to the discussions in your assembly and has taken care to follow the approach adopted at the council of europe. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. it should also be noted that the council did not accept the proposals to introduce rules of extraterritorial jurisdiction, which your rapporteur did not approve. the council was thus moved by a desire for balance during the negotiations and was able to reach a text which takes your concerns into account to a large extent. now, as regards the framework decision on the protection of personal data presented by martine roure, it is a fact that the so-called sovereign files, particularly in the field of public security, are very few, if any, framed, as you have pointed out, madam president. it is in this area that it is particularly important to frame and regulate data exchanges, with the aim of protecting public freedoms. we must, you are right, move quickly and efficiently, while respecting the rights of those whose data is exchanged, retained and stored. the ministers of justice agreed on a draft framework decision on 8 november 2007. as you yourself have said, some of you in this house would have liked to go further. the presidency is aware of this, but the framework decision on which the council reached unanimous agreement after more than two years of debate is a first step which gives the union minimum standards for personal data in the context of criminal cooperation, whereas there is no common rule so far in the context of the third pillar. it is a compromise and that is how europe is being built, especially in this area. it is a compromise, not a cheap decision, but the best possible result today, which fills a gap and opens the way for further developments. it is a first step towards regulating the exchange of data for criminal purposes within the european union, the application of which can be monitored much more effectively than within the council of europe. the transposition and application of this framework decision may be subject to an evaluation by the justice and home affairs council, as was the case for example with the european arrest warrant. in the end, when our institutional framework has evolved, as we all hope, infringement proceedings can be initiated by the commission, mr vice-president. the question is often asked in europe whether we prefer minimum standards which can be raised later, or whether we prefer to remain at the status quo, that is to say today with extremely heterogeneous data protection standards, with no effective control by the european institutions and bilateral negotiations for data exchanges with third countries which do not give sufficient guarantees to our citizens and can be carried out without our consent. this is the case with the bilateral agreements concluded with the united states. i think it is better to move forward than to stay in the status quo. in our view, the framework decision is a necessary first step. in addition, the work of previous presidencies has helped to find balance points which also take account of your concerns. i would like to mention a few, my dear martine roure. firstly, although the future framework decision will apply only to data exchanged between member states, as you have pointed out, the member states have also committed themselves to adapting their own level of protection. a meeting clause in article 27, reinforced by recital 8 of that framework decision, furthermore calls on the commission to extend the scope of the text after a period of five years, and it could concern national data. as the council presidency, we see no problem with that. the second element is that all data exchanges are subject to the principle of proportionality, which makes it possible to verify, on a case-by-case basis, the purpose for which they are transferred and whether the volume of such data does not exceed what is strictly necessary. the third element is that the transfer of data to third countries is subject to important conditions and guarantees in order to ensure an adequate level of protection. as you know, this provision has not gone unnoticed by some of our external partners, whom i have mentioned. article 14 is a wall on which we can rely to prevent the transfer to a third country, without our consent, of personal data which we have transmitted to a member state. it also allows us to ensure that the level of data protection in the latter state is equivalent. finally, as a fourth element, the member states have undertaken to report on their national measures to the commission, which will present its evaluation and proposals for amendments to this initial framework to the european parliament and the council. you will therefore be fully involved in the follow-up of this framework decision. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency is aware of your commitment to respect for fundamental rights in the european union, and i would like to stress that the future group, which brought together the six ministers of justice of germany, portugal, slovenia, france, the czech republic and sweden, has made strengthening data protection a priority for the european union in the coming years. this is a concern shared by all the member states and supported by all the ministers of justice at the informal council meeting on 25 july. that is what i wanted to say to your assembly, mr president.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i would like to welcome minister jouyet and our two rapporteurs who have done a very good job. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of personal data in respect of the processing of personal data by the member states. i would also like to thank the presidency of the council. the remarks of jean-pierre jouyet are likely to show the presidency's concern to bring views closer together. i shall try to be brief, mr president, because we are expecting a very interesting debate in parliament this morning. i shall first refer to the proposal for a framework decision on the fight against terrorism. as the minister has very well said, modern information and communication technologies play an important role in the spread of the terrorist threat. the internet, which is cheap, fast, easily accessible and almost global in scope, is indeed used by terrorists. the advantages of the internet, which are enjoyed by law-abiding citizens, are unfortunately being exploited for criminal purposes. terrorists use the internet to disseminate propaganda material for mobilisation and recruitment purposes, as well as online manuals and manuals for terrorist training or planning attacks. preventing this threat is obviously a political priority. the european union must combat modern terrorism and its new modes of operation with the same degree of determination as it has shown in the fight against traditional terrorism. the proposal prepared by the commission updates the framework decision on combating terrorism and aligns it with the council of europe convention on the prevention of terrorism by including in the notion of terrorism the public provocation to commit terrorist offences and the recruitment and training of terrorists. the commission welcomes the positive reception of mrs lefrançois' report, which underlines the added value of the proposal. however, you have expressed your concerns about this proposal and your wish for a number of amendments. i'll try to answer briefly. firstly, your report calls into question the use of the term 'public provocation' and you have made it clear that you think the term 'public incitement' is more accurate. but the fact is that the commission's proposal is based on the council of europe convention and follows very closely the definitions of offences for two reasons. firstly, we wanted to take account of the incomparable expertise of the council of europe in the field of human rights and the work which the council has done in drafting the text of the convention under discussion. the convention is also based on the case law of the european court of human rights on freedom of expression. secondly, the commission wanted to facilitate the implementation by the member states of both the amendment to the framework decision and the council of europe convention. wouldn't a different terminology complicate the application a bit? that is the question i would like to ask you. as regards the second point raised in the report, the commission supports your idea of introducing in the text of the amendment safeguard clauses on human rights equivalent to those in article 12 of the council of europe convention on the prevention of terrorism. moreover, mr minister, the council's common position of 18 april 2008 already contains additional safeguard clauses which are parallel to those in article 12. i come to this desire to exclude any obligation to criminalise attempted infringements. we agree. the commission proposal already excluded this obligation and the council common position of 18 april 2008 was in the same vein. i would also like to say that, as far as the rules of jurisdiction for new offences are concerned, we agree to a fairly large extent - not entirely - with the amendments proposed in the report. the commission can therefore accept the elimination of the additional rules of jurisdiction which it had included in its proposal. however, the commission does not share the report's view on the existing rules of jurisdiction in the current framework decision, as this would be a limitation in relation to new infringements. the amendment proposed in the report removes the obligation for a member state to prosecute new offences when they are committed outside the territory of that state but on behalf of a legal person established in its territory, or against its institutions or its population, or against an institution of the european union having its seat in the member state concerned. we are afraid that the elimination of this obligation to prosecute by the member state in question will limit the effectiveness of the commission's proposal, because the new offences are very often transnational in nature, and especially when they are committed via the internet. but the commission hopes that the developments in this dossier will make it possible, above all, for the amendment of the framework decision to enter into force in the very near future. the updating of our legislation is well worth all the effort and i thank both parliament and the presidency for doing everything to achieve this result. we do need this new tool. i come now to the report by mrs martine roure, who has very convincingly defended, in a very strong plea, the desire of parliament to have, mr minister, a framework decision which is significant and which allows us to go further. it is true that the framework decision must promote police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters by giving it the effectiveness that real legitimacy confers, that respect for fundamental rights confers, in particular the right to respect for private life and the right to the protection of personal data. common standards for the processing and protection of personal data processed for the purposes of preventing and combating crime can contribute to the achievement of both these objectives. mr president, you will not be surprised to hear the commission lament the somewhat restricted scope of the framework decision. we had thought of going further, but i know that the present presidency also very largely shares this view. we wanted to go further, because the text of the framework decision now only covers cross-border exchanges of personal data. however, the processing of personal data by the same authorities at national level is not harmonised at european level. these activities will remain covered at national level by national data protection legislation. it is true, madam roure, that all the member states have normally acceded to convention 108 of the council of europe on data protection. however, i am one of those who believe that we must go further. the subsequent evaluation of the application of the framework decision, to which jean-pierre jouyet referred, is obviously a means of reviewing the application of the rules of the framework decision, and also of verifying that the principles of purpose and proportionality, which you have very well recalled, are well respected, and which are essential in this area. and it is true that a review, a meeting clause, will certainly allow, in the light of the assessment which the member states will have to give us, to widen the scope of this data protection. what is certain, and i do not need to stress this since the presidency has just alluded to it, is that this text will be important not only for the europeans, but it will also be important in our negotiations with third countries. we will be much stronger, particularly in the negotiations with the united states, which i do not lose sight of, if we can put forward a data protection system that is really tailored to the needs and expectations of our citizens. that is why i hope that the council will make further progress on this matter and that we can reach an agreement. this is a first step, jean-pierre jouyet, but it must be sufficiently significant. that's my wish. but i would like in any case to see these two proposals and these two reports, mr president, which are very interesting and valuable to the commission, allow us to reach this agreement, which i wish for.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, mr vice-president and commissioner for justice, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, i am speaking in my capacity as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on legal affairs on the background report of the committee on civil liberties on this matter. i would like to thank the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights for the support it has given me in the past and i would like to thank and note that the rapporteur on the subject, mrs lefrançois, has played an open role in seeking understanding and dialogue in order to reach a consensus which, in these matters, is absolutely inexcusable. ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a framework decision may seem unnecessary. the council of europe, in its convention on the prevention of terrorism, already included it, and it included these three types which the commission has put forward in its proposal: public incitement to commit crimes, the recruitment of terrorists and the training of terrorists. but it is also true that it has added value, in that it contains a better definition of terrorism and, with a substantial list of sanctions, it properly completes this action. i want to say in all sincerity that this action by the commission is necessary and that it has been an absolutely valuable contribution. it is not a matter of having concerns about fundamental rights, it is not a matter of there being a collision with freedom of expression. in spain, ladies and gentlemen, the terrorist group eta is not on the european union's list of terrorist groups because of what it says, but because of what it does, because it uses extortion, kidnapping, violence, terror and death for its purposes. that's why he's there; not because of what he says, but because of what he does. in our parliament, in spain, there are groups of independence-seekers who speak with all legitimacy, who advocate independence and who are not, of course, persecuted for that reason at all. it is not a question of organizing crimes of opinion: it is a question of collaborating using modern techniques and fighting terrorism effectively. let me remind you that just yesterday in spain an honest man, a soldier, a brigadier, juan luis conde, was murdered by the terrorist group eta by a cowardly system such as the use of a car bomb. the message from the european union must be unambiguous, firm and not be a dilettante. we must be able to set up penal systems which are not unreasonable, because if the judge understands that there are difficulties, the system of in dubio pro reo will always be established and we must not lose this opportunity. let the terrorist gang eta and all the terrorist groups in the world know that they are receiving a clear message from the european union, that they are losing all hope, that they are certain that the democratic weight of the union will fall on them and that we will not give them any respite in their ruthless attempt to exclude them from the life of our countries.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent reports, but i shall refer mainly to the lefrançois report. step by step, and always from the legal side, we continue to contain terrorism. the 2002 framework decision enabled us to establish a common definition and legal framework of what constitutes terrorist offences. the amendment we are presenting today is to include three new offences against which to protect oneself in the face of old and new terrorist threats and their increasing reliance on information technologies, including cyberterrorism. there's a long chain of terrorist acts that range from the indoctrination and fanaticism of a child to murder. this amendment concerns public incitement to commit terrorist offences, the recruitment and training of terrorists, which today covers both traditional and modern methods of spreading terror. however, we do not distinguish between the methods. but we must be extremely careful to draw the line between what is unacceptable and therefore must be punished, and freedom of expression as a fundamental right. in the case of public incitement, this boundary is rather fragile. that is why intentionality and manifest risk are indispensable requirements for crime. everything else is freedom of expression protected by the framework decision itself, article 6 of the treaty on european union, the charter of fundamental rights and the council of europe convention. in the case of the convention, we regret that many member states have not yet ratified it, which is a disservice to the fight against terrorism and the protection of freedoms. neither the framework decision at its origin nor its current amendment replaces the convention; rather, its ratification would strengthen european legislation, giving it added value and a more complete legal regime. as with the prüm treaty and so many other texts, european legislation does not distinguish between terrorists by one or the other sign; it is as valid for internal consumption in the european union as it is for international terrorism. europol recorded a total of 583 terrorist acts last year, up 24% on the previous year, of which 517 were from separatist groups operating in spain and france. and there were 201 arrests of suspected islamist terrorists. i congratulate the police for their commendable work and their determination to dismantle and arrest both. mr. president, unfortunately, my country is back in the news these days. we have a long and sad tradition of terrorism. we know that terrorists have no place in democracy, but neither do those who harbor, support and help terrorists. and so i think we have another criminal figure pending to complete our legislation: the figure which criminalizes demonstrations which discredit or humiliate victims of terrorism or their relatives. it would be good to keep that in mind for future modifications. i would like to conclude, mr president, by expressing my regret that we are not able to implement protocol no 10 to the treaty of lisbon, which would have accelerated the community's involvement in matters which are so sensitive and urgent for citizens.
mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleagues, mrs lefrançois and mrs roure, on their reports, but i would also like to take this opportunity to say that the french police have just arrested a major terrorist and i therefore also congratulate the french government, the french police. i believe that the collaboration of our political authorities, of all countries, must be behind our police, our judges and our governments.
president. - the next item is the report (doc. in order to take account of recent court decisions, i table this oral amendment, which i read in english: customs authorities continue to confiscate, as an extraordinary measure only, the cars of greek nationals, i add, provisionally, and i add the last sentence: takes note of the ruling of the european court of justice c-156/04 (07.06.2007) that deems satisfactory most of the explanations provided by the greek authorities in this case; welcomes the implementation of new legislation adopted by the latter in the purpose of addressing the shortcomings highlighted in the aforementioned ruling;
in writing. - my vote in favour was conditional on the commission committing itself to bringing innovation to all areas. during the year of innovation and creativity, innovation should reach all organisations and institutions, public and private, for-profit and not-for-profit, and in all aspects of life, in particular to promote social innovation and innovation for environmental sustainability. non-state governments, which are key players in this area, must be taken into account. in addition, a concept of open innovation should be encouraged. innovation that, in addition to being based on internal capabilities, incorporates all its possible sources (users, suppliers, networks, etc.) and that, going beyond the product and technology, considers intangibles and in general the multiple dimensions that lead to value creation. finally, the culture of cooperation, networking and the deployment of tools and methods aimed at creating in them the dynamic capacities that allow them to evolve with the environment, generate cutting-edge research and visible results in terms of competitiveness and value creation for society should be extended.
in writing. - it is understood from various sectors critical of the bologna process that the change will lead to an elitisation of university education. the report calls for special assistance to be given to students from disadvantaged social groups, for example by providing them with 'cheap and dignified' accommodation, and for it to be borne in mind that additional support is often needed after arrival. the amendment i tabled to amend this point and extend it to cover all expenditure, i.e. to make aid not restricted to accommodation, i believe is inspired by the concept of universal education, accessible to all in society.
in writing. - i agree with the report when it stresses that it is becoming increasingly necessary, for the quality of legislation, to delegate to the commission the elaboration of non-essential and more technical aspects of legislation, as well as its rapid adaptation to technological progress and economic changes. but such a delegation of powers must be encouraged by giving the legislator the institutional means to control the exercise of these powers. and parliament must be the guardian of this control, something which despite so many years with this issue remains not completely resolved. there are still parliamentary committees which have had a lack of information in decisions taken under the comitology procedure. parliament must therefore remain very vigilant.
the following is the joint debate on recommendation for second reading by mr dirk sterckx, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2002/59/ec on the establishment of a community system for the monitoring and reporting of shipping traffic (05719/3/2008 c6-0225/2008 2005/068/cop23/06 (cod-0236/2008) commission regulation (ec) no 2005/59/ec on the establishment of a community system for the monitoring and reporting of maritime traffic (05719/2008 c6-0352/2008 2005/068/cop22/06 (cod-0226/2008) council directive 2005/59/ec on the establishment of a community system for the monitoring and reporting of maritime traffic (05729/2008 2005/068/cod-0622 (cod-0630) commission recommendation for second reading by mr luis kohček, on behalf of the committee on transport and tourism, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to the adoption by the council of a directive of the european parliament and of the council laying down the general principles governing the investigation of accidents in the maritime transport sector and of passenger ships and passenger ships and passengers) commission regulation (codirection 2005/57/57/c09/08/068/c) council directive 2005/55/ec) council directive 2005/57/ec council directive 2005/55/ec on the common position of the council amending the council amending directive 2005/ec on maritime transport and council directive 2005/ec on the directive 2005/ec on the common organisation of the common rules for the management of the european union
i don't see mr. kohlicek in his seat. we shall now move on to the other speakers and if he is on time we shall give him the floor at the appropriate time.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the transport sector is not left behind. we do so with more reason than we had then to be satisfied with the results achieved, results which were the fruit of the collaboration and consensus that exists in this house on an issue as sensitive to public opinion as the safety of our seas. but i regret that our satisfaction is not full and not as expected, because, although we have all learned the lessons of the past, with the dramatic examples of the recent disasters of the erika and the prestige still fresh in our minds, and the need to act now and not wait for the consensus that always follows disasters, the attitude of the council has unfortunately prevented us from closing the dossier today with the adoption of the eight proposals that constitute the so-called 'maritime safety package 3'. and this is not an obstacle to acknowledging and thanking the french presidency, which, taking the example of the portuguese and slovenian presidencies, has set the council on the right track with the wise intention of reaching agreement on a package of proposals which must be treated as a whole - and we all agree on this - because the intersections between the various proposals exist, and all the actors in the maritime transport chain are involved. it is therefore not a question of whether any of these proposals are unnecessary or untimely, as many governments, or at least some, unfortunately think. each and every one of them is indispensable. i therefore call on the council not to let a precious opportunity to close this dossier by conciliation pass by, which some of us will reach with our duties almost done, because the informal trilogues held so far and the total consensus that exists with all the shadow rapporteurs have produced very satisfactory results and can constitute a good basis for the final understanding. that said, ladies and gentlemen, there is still one point which continues to concern me greatly and which i would like to mention, because it touches on an essential aspect of the package, in our view. i am referring to the independence of the bodies and authorities which have been set up specifically to take the best decisions in the shortest possible time. in this connection, i am speaking specifically of the independent authority which is intended to be created to make permanent the ever so difficult decision to take a ship in danger to a place of refuge. it would be useless, ladies and gentlemen, to create an authority which is independent of the influence of political power if it is not given the resources and the capacity to take decisions, but it is even more serious to give it powers if, when the time comes to decide the truth, it is left with only one option: to take the ship in, even if it is uninsured and without guarantees. the whole burden therefore falls on the member state concerned, which is ultimately the victim of the ecological and social damage which may result from hosting a vessel in a place of refuge, in addition to having to deal with the coverage of such damage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing fleet is not affected by the crisis. and i have to tell you that i am not alone in this battle, because the european association representing all our ports has also raised its voice to the heavens. that said, i thank mr sterckx for his tenacity in this difficult undertaking which he has undertaken and which he has had to deal with, if i may use the spanish expression. i am particularly pleased with the progress made in the monitoring of vessels, which is essential to reduce risk situations. in order to resolve the differences, we will have to reconcile our differences and we will do our utmost to find compromises with him; i believe that we will achieve them without any doubt. i will now turn to my report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's maritime transport sector is not affected by the introduction of the single market, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain to the council what he thinks of the proposal for a directive, which is that the commission should be able to take a decision on the matter, and to make a statement on the proposal for a directive, which is that the commission should be able to take a decision on the matter, and to make a statement on the proposal for a directive, which is that the commission should be able to take a decision on the matter, and to make a statement on the proposal for a directive, which is that the commission should be able to take a decision on the matter, and to make a statement on the proposal for a directive, which is that the commission should be able to take a decision on the matter. in any case, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that there are solid grounds for a final agreement and that we will find a solution that is safe for all european citizens.
before i move on to the next speaker, i would like to point out to the honourable members that mr bronislaw komorowski, president of the polish parliament, is present in the official gallery, accompanied by a delegation. (applause) mr komorowski has thus responded to the invitation of our president, hans-gert pöttering, and the two of us have just opened the photographic exhibition to commemorate the quest for freedom of our dear and admired friend and colleague, bronislaw geremek, who has now disappeared. mr komorowski, we welcome you most cordially to this house of yours, the european parliament.
ladies and gentlemen, by approving this third maritime package we are giving a clear answer to many of the demands that european society has made following the disasters of the erika and the prestige seven and five years ago. these proposals, which are mutually reinforcing - as many of my colleagues have said - will make a decisive change in the quality of the european maritime sector and, ladies and gentlemen, in its transparency. the proposal for a directive on technical investigations after accidents is a guarantee that we shall never again witness the spectacle of opacity that surrounded the tragic prestige accident. the text reinforces the independence of bodies responsible for investigating maritime accidents and incidents, and the obligation to disclose the results obtained with a view to improving procedures and exchanging good practice. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteurs, because their excellent work has shown the firmness of our position as the european parliament in relation to these proposals, proposals which have no other vocation than to make the european maritime area one of the safest in the world and to contribute to the cleanliness of the european fleets, as well as to greater to greater responsibility of operators with regard to damage caused to third parties and, in particular, to the national heritage.
i would like to congratulate all of us on the adoption and presentation of this third package. i would like to congratulate the commission and its commissioner, mr tajani, who very early on said that as a roman citizen he was very sensitive to all aspects of the sea and its ports. i would also like to congratulate all my fellow rapporteurs, because the truth is that in such a complex and long dossier they have always been able to maintain the positions of this house, which are those which defend the best and the greatest security for all citizens in such a complex and troublesome area as the sea. i think it is also right that we should respond to the various accidents and that the european citizens should see that parliament and the european institutions are not only dealing with them when there has been a misfortune, but that they are capable, after these lessons, of moving forward and moving forward in the legislative aspects. in this case, i think it is the aspects of safety: precisely that safety in relation to the environmental impact, which, let us say, gave rise to the great movement, but also safety, at this moment, in relation to the responsibilities of the different actors, identifying and clarifying what they are and how to act in relation to them, setting milestones or foundations for the future fight against piracy and, even more importantly, making progress in improving the working and social conditions, as well as the professional conditions, of maritime workers. i think that it is precisely in these areas that we still have to make progress, and we ask the commission to continue to raise these issues. i can only say that, from our point of view, there are some reservations about the guarantees needed to ensure that safe havens are the havens we all need.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that, in view of their firmness, which is also being put into action, some governments will not be deaf and listen to this intelligence, the french intelligence, and collaborate in a measured way to achieve the objectives which they and we are determined to achieve. as for the commission, the vice-president knows that we have had some unofficial trilogues, but that what he has called inconsistencies are certainly logical because of the timing and the parliamentary formulas, but they are perfectly curable. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, mr sterckx makes a recommendation to the spanish people: that we should be sensitive to their proposals. i ask you to accept that our opposing positions are based on profound reasons, but i also say that this position is not insurmountable and that in conciliation, there will undoubtedly be formulae that will find us and we will be able to accept an all-inclusive formula that will provide a solution not only for the countries that have ships, but also for those who suffer because we have coasts.
on behalf of the pse group. ladies and gentlemen, this problem needs to be tackled urgently. my figures, and i have them, are even worse than those just given by minister bussereau: today there are 13 ships and 300 seamen still held by the pirates. and what is clear is that if this phenomenon is not curbed, it will continue to grow as it has so far and will certainly not stop or diminish. the tenacity of the governments of france and spain, among others, and also the tenacity of this parliament have borne fruit. we have quickly obtained a un resolution on this phenomenon, which extends the right of persecution, and a european-level coordination unit has also been set up. but you know that it is essential that we first of all work to extend the un mandate, because it is only valid for three months and if it is not extended, our newly created coordination unit will have to close at the beginning of december. as regards the second part of the ministers' decision, the strategic military option, we need this operation to materialize and a relevant number of member states to show their willingness to participate in it as soon as possible, and i support what mr jarzembowski has said. it would be the first european naval military operation within the european security and defence policy, ladies and gentlemen, and an important sign of visibility for europe. the circumstances demand it. piracy in the indian ocean is, today, an extremely profitable business that is increasing day by day. i was told today that the pirate profession was, incredibly, becoming more and more highly regarded in some countries bordering the indian ocean. we must stop this spiral, we must protect vulnerable merchant and pleasure vessels, as well as the many fishing vessels operating in the area. it is also necessary to provide protection and escort for the world food programme vessels, because on the 27th of this month canada's mandate ends and we still have no country to take over.
the somali coast is clearly one of the most dangerous coastlines in the world, as the data and especially the fact that last year alone there were at least 25 vessels that were victims of all kinds of acts of piracy show. the case of playa de bakio is perhaps one of the best known, at least in spain, but it is obvious that it is not the only one. it is also clear today that the transitional federal government in somalia does not have the resources or the means to establish peace and security in the country and therefore it is even less able to guarantee security in its waters or in areas close to them, and therefore international support is needed in this regard, in line with what was established by the united nations in june, as previous speakers have said. i am personally concerned about another matter, and i would like to say this: the complaints we sometimes receive from foreign vessels - some, perhaps, european ones - that take advantage of this uncontrolled situation to fish fraudulently in one of the richest fishing grounds in the area or even to use it as a dumping ground for dangerous substances, something which the federal government is also not in a position to control at the moment. i therefore believe that it is a priority to ensure the safety of ships operating in the area in a legitimate manner and in accordance with international law, but it is also a priority - and i would say even more so - to commit ourselves to resolving the conflict in the area so that autonomous, legitimate and recognised somali institutions ultimately assume the responsibility for safeguarding the security of the area.
i will not repeat the facts which have themselves been made explicit here. i would like to classify them as scandalous events, which cause social alarm to our citizens, who are undoubtedly feeling a certain helplessness. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishermen are not caught by pirates, and that the fishermen are not caught by pirates. on the other hand, shipowners suffer serious economic losses which are not always covered by their insurance, as these are extraordinary circumstances which are usually excluded from insurance policies. what to do with the pirates? of course, anything but the dilettante spirit which presided over the last council of foreign ministers on 15 september. we must take strong action against piracy on two fronts: in the diplomatic field, by supporting the african countries which are suffering from the presence on their territories of real mafias which use extortion and kidnapping to blackmail fishermen and merchants in one part of the world; and in the field of the legitimate use of force, by using it to produce a deterrent effect, which is perhaps the only language understood by pirates. that said, where and in what context? in the national, in the european, in the international? i understand, ladies and gentlemen, that we must act initially on a national basis, as france has done in an exemplary manner, with coverage of international law and in an effective manner, which has been exemplary. i regret that the spanish and french proposals were not adopted by the council, because what was agreed at the end was insufficient. i think we must give the french presidency a vote of confidence in order to propose european action capable of defending our interests, and hope that, in due course, nato's offer of global and international coverage will be able to act within that framework. but let's do what we always do, let's go ahead, make our own decisions and then wait for others to help us. let us not maintain the sense of helplessness and the feeling that the citizens have that we are not able to defend ourselves.
madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, the citizens of europe do not understand how in the age of technology, telecommunications, satellites and so on, we are experiencing episodes of piracy that seem to take us back four or five centuries in our history. i cannot accept what other colleagues have been able to say about satisfaction with the answer. i have been saying here in the european parliament for several years that the situation in the indian ocean, the situation off the coast of somalia for european fishermen and for the vessels that do their job and work there is unsustainable, and there has been no great response. i am glad that the council has finally taken a first step - a first step, i believe, but not enough - by creating this unit in brussels which will be responsible for monitoring fishermen, protecting the humanitarian aid that is so necessary in somalia and also for reaching agreements on fishing grounds. i believe that with what has been created and what has been agreed so far, it will not be possible to achieve all these ambitious objectives. the sea is very large, the coasts of the indian ocean are also very large, and we need the contribution and cooperation of all the european countries, because the question is not whether the fishermen or the boats are french, basque, spanish or dutch; the question is whether they are european and we must all contribute to this.
i have just attended a meeting of the regional advisory committee on the high seas fleet and i have seen the great concern that exists about the fate of 51 vessels and some 1 500 crew members of the community tuna fleet operating in the indian ocean. for years the fleet has been denouncing incidents of piracy in the area bordering somalia, but not even the seizure of the spanish tuna-boat playa de bakio last april has prompted some governments, including mine, to react in time, unfortunately, until, a few days ago, the fleet had to withdraw to port victoria. and from there, the measures taken are highly insufficient. it is understood that fishermen are in a particularly dangerous situation, as while all vessels transiting the area are a cause for concern, traders usually have established passage routes, which gives greater opportunities for monitoring their transit. these 51 fisheries, however, are scattered, following the migrations of tuna, over an area of over 3 200 square miles, which is five days' sailing away, and are therefore much more vulnerable; hence a naval operation is imperative and urgent. in addition to what has been said, in addition to the strait of malacca, in addition to somalia, there are already complaints from the fishing fleet about piracy in the mozambique channel and in areas of india and the caribbean. we cannot therefore stand by and do nothing, and we must react, in addition to the reactions that our governments and the council may take. all the community institutions are involved in creating a coordinated strategy to combat international piracy. i have therefore proposed to my group, the european people's party, an amendment to the budget to provide one million euros for the study of a feasibility plan to develop this strategy, and i ask this parliament to give it the green light so that all community citizens, wherever they may be, will receive the message that their european union supports them and, above all, protects them.
i am very pleased about this debate. since 2005, we have been warning the european parliament - both the commission and the council - about the dangers of sailing in the waters, including international waters, near somalia. following a series of ship hijackings and armed robberies, the european union has just set up a so-called 'coordination cell'. welcome to it; at least it is finally recognized that there is a problem. but with this cell, i'm afraid the problem will remain. as long as we do not have genuine cooperation and a genuine common foreign and security policy, member states whose interests are affected will continue to have an obligation to protect and defend their legitimate national interests. france has clearly understood that. i commend you on your decision, your courage and your efficiency. spain has also reacted by planning to send a reconnaissance plane. i mean, an unarmed plane to deter armed pirates. it is therefore a pity that this aircraft is not sufficient to adequately defend and protect our fishermen should our fleet be attacked by armed men. we must ask for and obtain more cooperation between the states concerned, we must take advantage of the french presidency of the council and we must put more resources into the practice of legal fishing in international waters so that it is not, as it is there, a high-risk activity due to piracy practices that are inconceivable in the international society of the 21st century.
president of the council. - madam president, i am well aware of the urgency you are stressing. i can assure you that the council will do everything in its power to ensure that the common position is defined and transmitted to parliament as soon as possible, given the urgency you have mentioned and which is entirely legitimate.
president of the council. - mr ortega, the european pact on immigration and asylum aims to express at the highest political level the common principles which should guide migration policies at national and community level, and the strategic guidelines to be followed to give them substance. the proposed text was very favourably received by the council and the commission. the final version of the proposal is expected to be approved by the european council in october. as you know, the aim of this pact is to lay the foundations for a strengthened common policy, based on two principles which are at the heart of the european project: responsibility on the one hand and solidarity on the other. it is based on three dimensions of the overall approach to immigration. firstly, better organization of legal immigration; the aim is to take better account of the needs and reception capacities of the member states and to promote integration. secondly, a more effective fight against irregular immigration, in particular by ensuring the return of illegal immigrants under dignified conditions; we also want to protect the union better by improving the effectiveness of external border controls, particularly in the context of the enlargement of schengen. finally, the promotion of a close partnership between countries of origin, transit and destination of immigrants, in the service of the development of our partners; it's called co-development. finally, as the vice-president of the commission has stressed again today, we want the pact to lay the foundations for a common asylum policy and a europe of asylum. we know that national traditions differ, but we also want to make progress in this area. as you know, the french presidency consulted the european parliament informally throughout the preparation of this pact. there has been a lot of discussion in your house. the political support of your assembly is essential to this initiative. we are confident that the pact will bring the european citizens the concrete results they are entitled to expect and show that europe is taking concrete action to deal with the problems they may encounter.
i am satisfied with the way the presidency of the council has answered my question and i think the immigration pact is an important step. in what we might call the second part of my question, i refer in particular to the influence that this pact could have on the development of the european union's immigration policy. i mean, can we expect to make progress? as the president-in-office of the council knows, we are currently experiencing a sense of alarm in the european union on the one hand, and on the other hand, the need for immigration and the need for proper regulation, which often means that information is very poor. can we really expect this to be followed by legislative and practical measures to solve this problem?
normally, when the opposing parliamentary group comes to the aid of the rapporteur, who is from another group, that rapporteur should be concerned. this is the night of the european people's party and the european democrats. four members of the european people's party speaking in the debate on the botopoulos report! and, most surprising of all, mr president, to applaud the proposal made by mr botopoulos, because we think it is a good proposal, a proposal of consensus, a proposal - i announce it now - which will have the goodwill and political support of my group. parliamentary life is an expression of life in general, it is a life that changes, it is a life that must be reacted to. so, when faced with an interpretation of the rules of procedure that it was within a specific article that parliament could make observations on an appeal, mr botopoulos clarified the matter by making a proposal in the positive sense, which is also the sense that life requires. i therefore congratulate this young member and wish him great success in this parliament and the support of my group, mr president, for this reform.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, let me first thank parliament for taking up my suggestion to make the interinstitutional dialogue on the commission’s work programme a more political exercise with the involvement of the political groups, the plenary and the committees. i think this has been given a good start with your speeches so far. this year’s work programme will be the last one of this commission, and it has been prepared under very special and specific circumstances: the follow-up to the war in georgia, the situation in our neighbourhood, the uncertainties surrounding the lisbon treaty after the irish ‘no’, the escalation of fuel and commodity prices, the increase in food prices, inflation threatening purchasing power and, last but not least – and you have all mentioned it – the financial crisis affecting banks and other credit institutions. i will not need to remind you that what we do in the first half of next year will also set the scene for the european elections. this is why, in our presentation of the annual policy strategy last year, we underlined our intention to stick to our ambition of delivering a europe of results and bringing concrete benefits to citizens. the main policy priorities which the barroso commission envisaged for next year are still structured around five pillars, but the circumstances are different and we are facing new and urgent questions. the first pillar is promoting sustainable growth and jobs. more than ever we need to address today’s concerns: what we can do to boost growth, jobs and social stability in a period of growing inflation; what we can do to improve financial stability, building on and reinforcing the instruments available to the union – and available to the commission as well, which is an important discussion. as you know, the financial crisis is at the top of our agenda every week too, and we have established a kind of road map, but we have also discussed the preparation of a proposal on capital requirements for banks to tighten existing rules; we are also preparing a proposal to regulate rating agencies, which, as you know, played a very important role in the financial markets and in this crisis as well. of course, we think that well-thought-through proposals also play a very important role in ensuring that we can deal with the effects of the financial crisis. so we are active, and will continue to be active. another concern is what we can do to respond to the rise in oil, food and commodities prices. our job is not day-to-day micro-management but, in a single market, we need to look carefully at how we can bring long-term stability into the financial system. that is the first pillar. the second major effort will be put into promoting the transition to a low-emission and resource-efficient economy. the copenhagen meeting will be a major global rendezvous with a view to reaching a global climate-change agreement for post-2012/post-kyoto. europe must prepare its ground well and also maintain its role as a pioneer on climate change; we will also need to pursue work on how to assist with adapting to the impact of climate change so that we can be the leaders in development of smart growth. the third pillar has to do with a common immigration policy. we want to make a reality of a common immigration policy, following up on our communication in june, as well as to work on a pact on immigration, and we will need to move from pacts to acts if we are to make this a reality. the fourth pillar is how to focus our intentions on delivering policies that put our citizens first. the revised social agenda and the eu health strategy will also guide our action in this area, as well as the question of how we can further strengthen the rights of consumers. finally, we will pursue our objective of consolidating the role of europe as a global partner. on the external front, the challenges for 2009 are well known: the enlargement process, relations with our neighbourhood, the fate of the doha negotiations, improving our record on development assistance and establishing full cooperation with the new us administration. this debate means that parliament is involved early, because the programme does not exist yet, so we are taking this as input into our discussion and we will take your suggestions on board. on the other hand, to be credible and to have a real impact, the demands from parliament to the commission must remain focused, and this is particularly true for 2009. on different sides of the house you have different views on how we should prioritise over the next year. i hope most of us can agree that we must work together to forge a positive agenda for 2009, concentrated on the essentials. i think we must only consider initiatives that can really make a difference. in addition to choosing our proposals carefully, we need to communicate them well, so that european citizens can make a fair judgement on what the eu does and can do for them. so i am grateful for this debate at the very moment when we are preparing the programme. we intend to adopt it next month and to present it in plenary with the whole college present on 19 november. i have taken good note of your views, and you can be sure that they will help us to build a work programme with concrete initiatives bringing tangible, concrete change for european citizens.
mr president, my group would simply like to point out that the current budgetary and financial framework for 2007 to 2013 makes it very difficult to respond effectively to the new political priorities. we have said in this parliament and in my group that it is impossible to adopt new political priorities without sufficient funding. we now see that the new political initiatives taken by both the council and the commission, such as food aid or aid to georgia, have no place in the present financial framework, and therefore solutions must be found. however, the solutions to be adopted must not violate the existing provisions and the availabilities provided for in the interinstitutional agreement. in this respect, we believe we will be extraordinarily strict. let us make the necessary resources fully available, let us use the interinstitutional agreement in all its aspects in these remaining years to secure adequate funding for our priorities and let us use something we have somewhat forgotten, which is the current budget review, to adequately solve those deficits which are going to be produced as reality dictates new political urgencies. we therefore ask the commission to make a further effort to bring forward its proposal for a revision of the budget as soon as possible.
in 2009 the european union will have to strengthen not only the internal dimension of the project but also its external projection, through an external policy that can be coherent and effective in responding to the challenges that the global agenda is currently posing to us. for that we must adjust relations with russia after the caucasus crisis, we must somehow adapt the neighbourhood policy, first on our continent, through the association and stabilisation agreements, and then the enlargement policy, and also, outside our continent, the issue of the union for the mediterranean. i believe it is also important to maintain our presence in the conflicts in central asia, in iraq, in iran, in afghanistan and now also in pakistan, to strengthen our presence in the middle east conflict, to maintain our relations with the emerging powers of china and india and, above all, the partnership agreement with the countries of africa, the caribbean and the pacific. i think we must be very attentive to the outcome of the elections in the united states and, last but not least, we must also focus on the conclusion of association agreements with mercosur, the andean community and central america. in short, mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, this is a huge task which i believe would be much easier to accomplish if we had the instruments that the treaty of lisbon gives us in the field of foreign policy. i would like to conclude by saying, madam vice-president, that you know in advance that you can count on the support of this parliament.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome your interest in strengthening our relationship with india. the european union-india summit, which will take place in marseille on 1 september in the presence of the indian prime minister, mr manmohan singh, the president of the commission, mr barroso, and the president of the council of the european union, mr nicolas sarkozy, is one of the ten summits we are organising with third countries under our presidency. you will notice that the agenda of these meetings is full of summits with the major emerging countries. we have a summit with south africa in july and we hope to have summits with korea, china and brazil in december. this succession of summits represents a unique opportunity for the european union to develop its dialogue with the major emerging countries on issues of common interest, and the summit with india is fully in line with this logic. so i know that your committee on foreign affairs, mr president, recently participated in a fruitful workshop on eu-india relations in the presence of many experts. it showed a deep desire to encourage the strengthening of dialogue and cooperation between the european union and india. the presidency shares the same will as your assembly. with a population of over one billion people, which is expected to surpass that of china by 2025, and with annual economic growth of over 8% since 2005, india is destined to become a key partner of the european union, and we therefore want to make this next summit an important step in deepening our relations with this country. since 2000, when we held our first summit, we have expanded the scope of our dialogue and cooperation. the european union is now india's main trading partner. it is also one of the largest investors in this country and in several key sectors of its economy: energy, transport and telecommunications in particular, and the summits we have held have made a decisive contribution to the deepening of our relations. this was the case in 2004, when we elevated our cooperation to the status of a strategic partnership. in 2005, we developed an action plan to bring this partnership to life, and in 2006, a so-called free trade agreement was concluded. but we must do more and ensure that the political dialogue and our cooperation with this country correspond to india's true potential. we hope that the marseille summit will serve this purpose. we also want to strengthen our cooperation with india in areas that correspond to the current priorities of the union, the fight against climate change and energy. these discussions are far from easy with our major emerging partners, but we must have them and we are working with our indian counterparts on a number of objectives. firstly, we want to adopt at this summit a renewed action plan, which is shorter and more operational and which will enable us to adapt our partnership to the new challenges of energy security and sustainable development. we also want to strengthen our prospects for cooperation in the field of research and new technologies, solar energy or the iter project, for example. this action plan should be complemented by the adoption of a work programme on energy, clean development and climate change, and should include cooperation on energy efficiency, clean coal and the deployment of renewable energy. these actions may, where appropriate, be supported by the new european business and technology centre. this new centre is due to be established in new delhi by the end of the year and, of course, during this summit we will be discussing regional issues which are crucial for international stability, whether it be afghanistan, pakistan, burma or iran. we also want to take our strategic partnership with india further at this summit by launching or pursuing concrete cooperation projects. we hope to be able to sign a very important agreement in the field of aviation. it is an agreement that was already signed by the negotiators earlier this year. we want to sign it because it will bring our national legislation into line with community law and at the same time strengthen the legal security of european operators. i am only talking about the flights between india and the european union. because otherwise i hope we are in line with community legislation. we want to give a new impetus to the negotiations through a trade and investment agreement. of course, it is up to the commission, to the vice-president, whose competence it is, to negotiate this agreement. we want to assure the commission, in the person of mrs wallström, of our full support because our relationship with india deserves to be deepened. the signing of a trade and investment agreement would be a major step in this direction. while it has great potential for developing relations, it should be remembered that india is only the ninth largest trading partner of the european union behind south korea, which is an anomalous situation. so the three documents we will adopt at this summit - i remind you: the revised joint action plan, the energy work programme and the prospect of agreement mentioned above - are being negotiated with the indian side, as is the joint press release. i cannot go into detail today on these texts in view of the discussions which are taking place with our indian partners, but i think i can say to you here that we are optimistic about the results we can achieve at the end of this summit. i would like to conclude by congratulating the european parliament on the very constructive role it has played in relations between the european union and india. the creation in 2007 of a special delegation for india has given a new impetus to contacts with the lok sabha, the indian parliament, and the delegation from your assembly will certainly be called upon to play an important role, particularly in the preparation of future parliamentary resolutions on sensitive issues affecting relations between india and the european union. i would like to take this opportunity, at the end of this presentation, to welcome the presence here of the chairwoman of the delegation for relations with india, mrs gill, who is leading this delegation with great dynamism.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, mr jouyet, i am speaking on behalf of my colleague benita ferrero-waldner, and it is a pleasure to speak to you today on the preparation of the summit with india in marseille on 29 september 2008. europe’s relations with india, i have learned now, have been growing in importance for several years, not only because of growing trade and investment but also because of a shared commitment to, and experience of, multilingual and multicultural democracy. in this parliament you have recently demonstrated the political importance of relations with india, both by setting up a new parliamentary delegation and also by inviting president abdul kalam to address the house last year, which was the first time an indian head of state had done so. at this summit we hope to turn this growing political commitment into stronger concrete cooperation, and we can already report a good deal of progress since we agreed a strategic partnership with india in 2004 and a joint action plan in 2005. the first thing to mention is the political dialogue and cooperation that has been strengthened, and there is now a regular calendar of summits and ministerial meetings, an annual security dialogue has been established, and new formats for dialogue in the asia-europe meeting (asem) and the south asian association for regional cooperation meeting, and this has fostered cooperation even on sensitive issues such as counter-terrorism. the second point to mention is that the contacts between the eu and india are intensifying, particularly in education, where the european union has provided funding for over 900 scholarships to indian students under the erasmus mundus programme, and this funding will be continued until at least 2013. the third point is that economic and technical cooperation has deepened. science and technology activities and exchanges have intensified and they have also been lifted to ministerial level; new dialogues have been created; an eu-india energy panel has been established; and the international thermonuclear experimental reactor – the so-called iter agreement – to which both india and the eu are party, is now in force. trade and investment has also continued to expand. eu-india bilateral trade has doubled to eur 55 billion since 2000, and the eu is now the biggest source of foreign direct investment into india while the eu is also receiving increasing inflows of indian outward investment. development cooperation has continued to increase and we will be using the bulk of our indicative budget of eur 470 million for india for 2007-2013 especially to support health and education programmes related to the millennium development goals. so we have achieved a good deal, but there is more to do, and we believe that our relations should be guided by the promotion of peace, human rights and comprehensive security, sustainable development with environmental considerations, social equity and economic prosperity, and the strengthening of cultural and educational exchanges. one of our main aims at the summit is to agree a revised joint action plan to reflect these objectives. as global players, both sides have a responsibility to address global challenges, and some specific global issues will be raised. with regard to world trade, we hope that india and the us can resolve their differences over the wto round and enable negotiations to get back on track. climate change and energy are also summit priorities for us, and we hope to sign a joint work programme on energy, clean development and climate change focused on renewable and clean energies, together with two climate-change-related european investment bank loans. we will also discuss the global financial crisis and ways in which the world food situation can be addressed. on bilateral matters, we have some significant joint interests to discuss. the free-trade agreement negotiations that were launched last year have made good progress and now we are aiming for their early and balanced conclusion. we hope to sign a horizontal agreement on civil aviation at the summit. we will also push for progress on the conclusion of a maritime agreement. concerning culture and education, our objective is to agree on the launch of a policy dialogue. science and technology is also a priority, and the summit should welcome the creation of a european business and technology centre in delhi and the support provided for this by the european parliament. let me finish by welcoming the recent creation by the indian parliament of a group for friendship with the european parliament. i am sure that this will enable all of you, through contacts with your indian partners, to convince them that the eu is the most successful and forward-looking phenomenon in international governance of modern times and that we have much to offer each other.
on behalf of the pse group. the vast majority of this parliament feels that india is the largest democracy in the world and that we want to have growing relations of cooperation with it. we share with india principles and realities, from democracy itself to multilateralism in international relations. however, there are other points on which we disagree. for example, the death penalty, which we call for to be abolished in your judicial system. we also urge india to join the international criminal court. many of us regret that your government has not ratified the international convention against torture. that said, and despite this, we commend india's cooperation with the un human rights council and welcome the role of its national human rights commission in relation to discrimination on grounds of religion, caste or other grounds. we are aware of the terrible events in the state of orissa, recently provoked by hindu fanatics. we condemn them without hesitation, but at the same time we declare that exceptions, however bloody, cannot be generalized. hence we can say that india is a model of cultural and religious pluralism. outside its borders, india plays a key role. it does so regionally and shows its concern, as we do, about the current volatile political situation in pakistan, as well as, as most of us do, about the growing situation of insecurity and uncertainty in afghanistan and sri lanka. it would be commendable indeed if new delhi joined our efforts, the efforts of the european union, to help myanmar out of its nightmare. in short, india can be considered as a promoter of peace and stability in the region. india today, unlike others, is a responsible nuclear power. however, i personally think that it would be even more so if it adhered to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty; its image in the world would grow - a comment, by the way, which i extend to countries such as pakistan, north korea or israel. all that said - and i conclude - with the understanding that the coincidence of aims must not exclude reasoned and reasonable criticism, i am convinced that the forthcoming summit between the two parties will be a success.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i will not go into too much detail, because i know we have time problems, but i also want to thank everyone who has taken part in this report and to underline something very important: what parliament is proposing today in connection with the legislative review of the electronic communications sector, as catherine trautmann has already said, is extremely consistent and we believe that it will be very positive for the development of this market. the negotiations which will now begin must be concluded in this parliament. i think this is of course decisive for the sector.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work. it was not easy: they have worked miracles and they have my respect. i would also like to thank the honourable members of the european parliament for the strong signal they have given with today’s vote. this is the signal for an open and competitive single market, for telecom companies and for europe’s 500 million consumers alike. yesterday the commission had to propose new rules to tackle excessive charging for sms and data roaming in the eu. these proposals will provide a fast cure for one of the most visible symptoms of the lack of a single market in telecoms, from which both companies and consumers are suffering. today, the european parliament has gone an important step further by proposing to remedy the problem once and for all at its root: to get rid of the fragmentation by paving the way for a single market in regulatory terms. i welcome in particular the fact that the european parliament voted, after an intense debate – and probably to the surprise of many observers – for the establishment of an efficient european telecom regulator, as a facilitator for bringing together the national regulators, and for the dialogue between the national regulators and the commission. this is good news in the interest of a level playing field for the provision and use of telecom services across borders in europe. this new european regulator will make a strong contribution to enhancing cross-border competition and consumer choice. now, honourable parliamentarians, we need to sit together – parliament, the council and the commission – in order to get this telecoms package up and running by 2010. there is not much time left. we have to do it substantially; we have to do it quickly now. everything the commission can do in order to help to advance will be done. i am convinced that the signal given today by parliament goes beyond europe: it is a signal that will be heard across the globe. it will show that the single telecom market in europe is open for business in the interests of a strong industry and of an empowered consumer. thank you and congratulations. (applause)
my group has tabled an oral amendment to paragraph 20. it should say, after the last line, the following, which i read in english:calls on india and the eu, particularly through the intermediary of the eu special envoy for burma/myanmar, to work together to prevail upon the burmese military junta to release political prisoners and to respect human rights;
unfortunately, and for reasons beyond my control, i was unable to take part yesterday in the debate on this directive on ship inspection and survey organizations. i would like to take this opportunity to express my satisfaction that it has been adopted by the house on the recommendations of the committee on transport. there were a couple of points which were not sufficiently clear or adequately dealt with in the common position adopted by the council of ministers. one was that ship classification organisations, when acting on behalf of the administration - because it is the responsibility of flag states to ensure the safety of ships - should be covered by the same legal safeguards as when the administration is acting. and secondly, i think we have made the financial responsibilities for accidents quite clear. the council's common position did not clearly distinguish between the three possible cases - that these accidents resulted in deaths, that they caused bodily injury or that they simply caused material damage - and parliament has put this in order and has succeeded in getting it clarified. i hope that this will be accepted by the council.
mr president, i will try to be very clear, given the diversity of opinions that are heard in my parliament. first of all, the crisis we are suffering here is not a biblical curse, it is not a punishment from the gods. markets have failed, and those failures have led to interventions that would have delighted keynes himself. and if markets have failed, then what markets have failed to do must be corrected; that is, something must be done. and in that something, you have to do several things. first, shock treatment is needed to bring the patient out of the coma. i would remind the commission and the council that if the problems of liquidity can be solved by the central bank, the problems of solvency are something that directly concerns you: the council, the commission and the member states. secondly, in order to prevent this from happening again, we need to know what the market has failed to do and what principles we need to restore. it has failed risk control, it has failed governance and, finally, it has failed ethics. and that requires us to re-establish some basic principles: transparency in products, in entities and in markets, the responsibility of managers, trust between the financial and the real economy and the central role of politics. i agree with the council that the time of absolute deregulation is a thing of the past. markets are not self-regulating, nor is industry. and the last recipe, what we have to do to vaccinate the sick person and to prevent this from happening again or not happening in any other way, is to continue with the integration of markets. we need to achieve a critical enough dimension, like the united states has; we need to establish a democracy of the euro so that our currency can weigh in the world in a crisis that is global; and we need to review the regulatory framework and the supervisory framework, which is what has failed. i therefore do not support soft legislation, codes of conduct or self-regulation. it is up to us all to give an answer to citizens who are the ones who will ultimately pay.
member of the commission. − i will start with ignalina, because i have talked about this issue many times. during the accession negotiations it was agreed by lithuania and the negotiating parties – the other member states – that because of safety concerns it should be closed by the end of 2009. this treaty is primary law and it is ratified by all member states. the commission is not part of this process. the commission is the guardian of the treaty and its role is really to see that the law is being observed. therefore i cannot give you any positive news about any change of position, because the commission position is decided by the treaty. what could be done? i believe that in the treaty there are also general provisions for support for lithuania’s transformations in the energy sector – an overall package, if i am not mistaken, of eur 1.3 billion, and this should address areas that could strengthen the supply of energy resources to lithuania, by strengthening interconnections, by financing energy efficiency measures, by financing alternative supplies. so that is the way to go, but, at least in my opinion, there is no way in which the treaty could be changed, because only an intergovernmental conference and ratification can change a primary law of the european union. as for mochovce, in the commission’s opinion it is actually the same question as for ignalina – it is not a different approach. but, for mochovce, we analysed the situation, and in today’s world there are particular requirements for new challenges we face. we have also seen not only safety but security concerns where aircraft could be used to target nuclear installations. the technology proposed for the new reactors did not sufficiently address this issue. that is why we asked the operator, together with the slovak nuclear energy control authorities, to take some supplementary measures that would guarantee that, even if a nuclear power plant was targeted in this way, it would sustain no permanent damage.
member of the commission. − the commission agrees with the opinion of the honourable member that clear regulatory policy is needed for investors in first-generation biofuels in order to get to the second-generation biofuels. the commission sees the first-generation biofuels as a bridge to the second-generation biofuels using lignocellulosic materials as a feedstock. without a good domestic production base for first-generation biofuels, innovative and efficient products will have difficulties finding their way into the market. having said this, clear regulatory policy is paramount not only to spur growth in the biofuel industry but also to avoid negative effects on the environment. the development of biofuels should also not be to the detriment of food security and also should not influence the prices of food. at the same time, there should be no doubt that the commission wants to accelerate the development of second-generation biofuels. the proposed directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources clearly specifies that the contribution made by biofuels produced from waste, residues and non-food cellulosic material shall be considered to be twice that made by other biofuels, when counting towards national biofuels obligations. further to this, member states will also be required to report on how they have structured their support schemes in favour of second-generation biofuels. the eu is also providing significant support to the ongoing research to develop second-generation production techniques. the activities under the eu’s seventh research framework programme have an increased focus on second-generation biofuels and ‘biomass to liquids’ processes in particular. research should include technically and economically based pilot studies to ensure not only an attractive economic benefit-cost ratio but also one that yields net benefits toward the community’s goals of curtailing climate change and affordable food prices for all citizens of the world. so commission policy and the commission proposal were really tailored to the need to develop second-generation biofuels, the need to use also, if necessary, those of the first generation, but in a sustainable way.
member of the commission. − the commission proposal does not discourage development of the biodiesel industry and its use in the transport sector, particularly as the refining sector very specifically suffers from a lack of diesel production in the european union. so it is not that we are discouraging it, but i believe that if there is no clear sustainability requirement the damage done by one unsuccessful project will be to the detriment of the whole industry, because the focus is so strong now on biofuels that we cannot afford to have any unsuccessful projects, because that would mean the end of the whole industry. to explain why i feel so strongly about biofuel policy, what we have in transport is: firstly, more efficient cars – and in this house there have been some very tough debates on cars; secondly, there is modal shift, but people still prefer in a lot of cases to use the car; and the third is replacement with alternative fuels – one of the alternative fuels is biofuel, but we should take into account that it is produced on the land that could also produce food products, so that is why i believe that although this measure is positive – and it is very clearly positive – all the necessary precautions need to be taken.
commissioner, there is often a mixture of myths and realities about biofuels which easily confuses the public, and which is detrimental to research, innovation and industrial investment in these areas. has the commission considered launching a thorough and objective information campaign at european level to clarify this situation?
member of the commission. - as i said, on the one hand, the european commission has legal obligations arising from regulation no 1 of 1958 and from this point of view there is no hesitation to fulfil these obligations in full; on the other hand, there are issues, such as those you mentioned, relating, for example, to the translations on the european commission's websites, where the commission faces a big dilemma; and not only the commission, but also the other community institutions. on the one hand, it is not possible to ensure a fully multilingual content of these sites and, i tell you very clearly, within the limits of the financial and human resources available to the european commission, to ensure a full coverage, a full multilingualism for all the documents that are presented on the commission's websites is impossible. on the other hand, what we are doing at the moment is to increase steadily, within the limits, i repeat, of existing capacities and resources and without in any way affecting the legal obligations we have, the number of documents that are translated into as many official languages of the european union as possible. in this respect, we have shown flexibility in situations where different requests have been made to the european commission and, again, to the extent that there is the physical capacity to meet these requirements, we are ready to show that necessary flexibility.
the next item is the report by alessandro foglietta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the white paper 'a european strategy on health problems related to diet, overweight and obesity' (2007/2285 (ini)) (a6-0256/2008).
i would ask all speakers to observe the time with a certain amount of discretion, because what cannot happen is that we prolong the debate, since it is a night debate and we have very limited time, even in the logistics: interpretation services, etc. i hope that i will not have to interrupt you, because i find the presidency very violent and i believe in the responsibility of each of our colleagues.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am really pleased that the members of parliament who took the floor basically agreed with the commission white paper. they not only shared its views, but also expressed support for the commission’s initiatives. i appreciate the complex approach of the speakers. this is fully in compliance with the complex nature of the problem of obesity. many of the speakers urge raising public awareness and cooperation with the food industry, which is also fully in line with the text of the white paper both in spirit and letter. the commission’s commitment is reflected in the proposal on food information to consumers which we will soon be discussing with the parliament and also with the council. i want to stress that there are various programmes and projects in the european union which mutually reinforce the white paper on nutrition, overweight and obesity – such as the green paper on urban mobility or the white paper on sport, both aimed at a healthier lifestyle and a healthier environment. others include the common agricultural policy health check – which would, for example, decrease consumption aid for butter – or the schemes for school milk and fruit, the community legislation on advertising and marketing to promote responsible advertising, or the directive on unfair commercial practices. these are very important initiatives in full harmony with the commission’s position. the commission will continue to work with the eu platform for action on diet, physical activity and health and with the high-level group of member state experts. i also want to stress that the commission is encouraging initiatives that help prevent the development of cardiovascular disease in europe, for which trans-fatty-acid consumption is a risk factor in addition to overall fat intake and the intake of saturated-fat acids. voluntary reformulation can deliver results. commitments have been made within the european platform for action on diet, physical activity and health to reformulate products and reduce the amount of trans-fats and saturated fats in them. there is just one more issue which i want to mention because it touches my portfolio – taxation. there was a proposal to examine the possibility of applying reduced vat rates for vegetables and fruits. i do feel sympathy with this proposal because it shows exactly how tax policy can promote the attainment of other important policy purposes. to conclude, i want to underline that parliament is one of the founding members of the platform, and the european commission is prepared to regularly update parliament on the activities of the platform. parliament is expected to discuss the monitoring report in 2010.
we shall conclude this debate with the intervention of the rapporteur, mr foglietta, who will be allowed two minutes of his time.
thank you, mr. foglietta, for your work, recognized here by all. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, 25 september. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mr joseph muscat, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2006/112/ec on the common system of value added tax as regards the arrangements for financial and insurance services (com (2007) 0747 - c6-0473/2007 - 2007/0267 (cns)) (a6-0344/2008). i take this opportunity to greet my friend muscat and to congratulate him on the very important success he has just had in his political life, which may take him away from our seats at some point but which, for the moment, is a source of joy for him and certainly for many of us.
on behalf of the pse group. most financial services, including insurance and investment fund management, have been exempt from vat since 1977. two main difficulties arose during this period: the definition of the scope of the exemption and the impossibility of recovering the vat paid for the provision of exempt services, which gave rise to the phenomenon of hidden vat. globalisation, european financial integration and market consolidation have increased the complexity of the problems by influencing the organisation and outsourcing of operations for the provision of these services. this report is the first attempt to update legislation which, in addition to being confusing - which is why the court of justice of the european communities intervened - is obsolete. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr muscat, on the excellent work he has been doing on this economically sensitive and technically complex dossier. its proposals for a modernisation of the definition of financial and insurance services, consistent with the financial services action plan and strictly exemptions, have been generally accepted. it has also been rewarded for its diligence in preventing the possibility of taxable persons using the taxation option from leading to price increases for consumers. the final result, by welcoming the specific vat exemption for companies that affect the cost-sharing mechanisms, will increase certainty for industries and budgetary security for member states, prevent distortions of competition and improve competitiveness for banks and insurers without increasing costs for consumers. i would like to express my satisfaction at the inclusion of two aspects in those amendments: the reference to co-insurance and a better delimitation of the concept of intermediation, linking it to professional and differentiated activities of mediation, both direct and indirect, and specifying that intermediaries are not counterparties in future operations. i would like to conclude by wishing mr muscat every success and expressing my confidence that he will soon be taking part in the construction of europe from the council.
member of the commission. − madam president, i believe that these questions should be placed in a wider context, as the debate on how to license music on the internet is gaining momentum. there is more music available to consumers on the internet than ever before, yet hardly any of it is properly licensed. almost none of it, therefore, produces any revenue for artists or music producers. in 2006, the ratio of illegal to legal song downloads was 40 to 1, and over 20 billion recordings are illegally downloaded every single year. so something is wrong here. online operators say that licensing of music in europe is too complicated, which is why there is still no legal online service available in any of the new member states. this is the background to the series of questions we have received from mr gargani. everybody agrees that we need to simplify the licensing of music for internet downloads and mobile phones. but nobody wants to lose out in the process. is there a simple way to achieve licences that cover all rights all over europe? in answering this question, we must bear in mind that most authors, composers and performers live off the revenue they generate with copyright. this is how they make ends meet every month. how, then, do we balance efficiency and fairness? the commission made its recommendations in 2005. as the 2008 evaluation report on these recommendations shows, some owners of copyright, such as the music publishers, have followed our advice and set up europe-wide licences. while small collecting societies fear that these platforms leave no room for niche repertoire, we now have to make sure that they do. the signs are encouraging. there are already eu licences for small music publishers. while these efforts are ongoing, we should not legislate prematurely. the ongoing restructuring should be given a chance. but we should remain vigilant so that small repertoire does not lose out. let me now say a word on the antitrust decision that the commission recently adopted in the cisac case. the decision prohibits anti-competitive practices by european collecting societies which limit their ability to offer their services to authors and online operators. the removal of the restrictions will allow authors to choose which collecting society manages their copyright. it will also make it easier for online operators to obtain licences for exploitation in several countries from a single collecting society of their choice. the 2005 recommendation and the cisac decision are governed by the same principles: they both encourage the removal of restrictions which prevent authors and composers from freely choosing their collecting societies, and rights managers from delivering multi-territorial licences. concerning the preparation of the recommendation on creative content online, the commission plans to adopt this recommendation during the first quarter of 2009. the 2008 public consultation on creative content online has shown that the topic of multi-territory licensing for audiovisual works is not ripe to be dealt with in the planned recommendation. the commission has published a call for tender for an independent study on multi-territory licensing of audiovisual works, with the aim of analysing both the economic and cultural aspects of such practices. the commission is currently analysing the tenders and the results of the study should become available by the end of 2009. we are working closely with both the european parliament and the member states on developments concerning creative content online, in particular by participating in the various hearings organised by the european parliament and the discussions in the audiovisual working group of the council of ministers. since the developments concerning creative content online take place at a rapid pace, there are no consolidated practices on which to base compulsory legislation at this stage. at this point in time, such legislation at a european level would possibly jeopardise the development of new business models and the cooperation processes among stakeholders. for this reason, a recommendation seems the most appropriate means to facilitate the shift of the creative content sector to the online environment. mr toubon made the interesting suggestion that maybe there should be a working group on small collecting societies, and i think that this is a very excellent idea. the commission would be prepared to be a facilitator and try to find a role for small societies in the online world so we will take up his suggestion.
on behalf of the pse group. mr toubon has made a magnificent legal statement of the problem. that saves me having to go into this matter. i would like to take this to a much more practical level. the directorate-general for competition, in the matter of copyright, starts from the basis that authors have the same weight as the large multinational companies that manage the world of communication. and that's not true. the authors, the performers, the performers are, in fact, workers. there may be a few stars - those who appear in the magazines - who have a certain choice. but most of the writers, the performers, the performers, the creators, they don't have that choice. his position is practically that of a union worker through his copyright organization. to expect that these authors - thousands, tens of thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands - who work in europe every day and who are getting their income through their authors' societies, operate as if they were multinational companies is a fiction that does not conform to reality. if we do not start from the fact that the present european authors' societies represent the specific interests of thousands of members and act as such, we shall never understand reality. i think the commission is probably doing its job, but when the commission talks about studies i get a little scared, because who does those studies? who pays for those studies? what lobby groups influence that? that is why we have a democratic system in the european union, a democratic system at the level of the member states and at the level of each of them. we in the european parliament must humbly assume the role of bringing here the expression of social reality that is perhaps not to be found in the offices or in the great economic studies. we are in a situation where, if we are not careful, if we try to deregulate this sector as has been done in others, we will end up killing one of the most own things, which is creation. europe is characterized, despite all its difficulties, by great creativity. we'll end up creating an audiovisual industry absolutely empty of content; we have some model in some other country where we've seen it. i mean, right now, i think it has to be part of our efforts to equip these creators with an institutional machinery, a system that allows them to act. i think that acting in the abstract, thinking that the little musician, that the little composer can defend himself is absurd. if beethoven were alive today and making symphonies and he was forced to reach the international market to compete with the big music multinationals, beethoven would starve. their economic situation would be much worse than it was in the 18th and 19th centuries. i think this is something important and something we have to pass on. mr toubon referred to our committee's decision to set up a working party on the protection of intellectual property. we expect the commission, and especially mr mccreevy, who has always been a great friend of this committee on legal affairs, to be willing to cooperate with us, to convey its concerns to us, but also to listen. and that, moreover, this working group serves, in effect, to hear the views of those thousands of people who, at this moment, are humbly doing great intellectual work and who are allowing these audiovisual media that we are creating to be filled with content. because if we do not, there is the danger, i repeat, that we will create a huge audiovisual system which is absolutely empty, which can only be occupied by advertisements, but which has no concrete content. i therefore believe, madam president, that the proposal, the oral question and the motion for a resolution which we are about to table are intended to strengthen this independence and this identity of european culture, which cannot be replaced by any abstraction based on free competition.
i have the floor pursuant to rule 166 of the rules of procedure, in conjunction with rule 45 (2) of the rules of procedure. that article 45 (2) of the rules of procedure was recently changed and prohibits any amendment to own-initiative reports. the result, as we shall see in the vote that follows, is that if a parliamentary group wants to change a line or a paragraph in an own-initiative report, it is obliged to table an alternative motion in which the only difference is a different comma, or one more word, or one less word. that may have been a good idea at the time when that article was reformed, but at the moment what that is doing is making it difficult to reach agreement in this house, which should be one of the first objectives. it is impossible to reach any agreement between political groups if all that can be done is to put forward a different whole text, as will be seen in the vote that follows. i ask you, mr president, to review the amendment to rule 45 (2) because it leads to absurdity and makes it difficult to have political relations between groups in this house. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i thank the honourable members for these questions and for this opportunity to discuss these issues in the european parliament again. for the commission, the reform of the european school system is a priority issue, and this is one of the most complicated items we are dealing with. the commission has always strongly promoted the wider opening of the european school system, and progress has been achieved. political agreement on this issue was marked at the ministerial meeting of november 2006, under the dutch presidency of governors of european schools. following formal approval by the board of governors in april 2008 of the concrete modalities to achieve this goal, any accredited school in the member states can now teach the european curriculum and deliver the european baccalaureate. it is up to the relevant authorities of the member states to take initiatives to concretise this opening of the european school system in their national schools. the opening of the european school system is in line with the european parliament’s wish to ensure that this would be possible both in places where an eu decentralised agency is located (so-called ‘type-ii schools’), and in locations without a direct eu presence (so-called ‘type-iii schools’). after almost 50 years of existence, the european baccalaureate has indeed acquired a high intrinsic value. the commission wants to maintain the high quality of this diploma. the board of governors of the european schools approved in april 2008 a revision of the european baccalaureate agreement. accredited schools can now deliver the european baccalaureate. in 2007, parliament’s committee on culture and education initiated a study to analyse the academic and professional careers of former pupils of the european schools, as the honourable member just mentioned. this study will show the specific benefits and possible difficulties experienced by former pupils of the european schools. the secretary-general of the european schools has also launched a study to make an external evaluation of the european baccalaureate. i trust that the combined results of both studies will provide key elements to assess how to further improve the european school system in order to best adjust it to the changing needs of its pupils. finally, i can inform you that the european school system has considerably increased its efforts to integrate children with special educational needs (sen). in the school year 2004/2005, the european schools had 274 pupils with special educational needs. in the last school year, there were 411 such pupils enrolled in the european schools. the sen budget allocated for 2008 is eur 3 123 000; in 2004, the sen budget spent was a little over eur 2 million. the commission would like to thank the disability intergroup of the european parliament for taking the initiative to set aside a reserve of eur 200 000 for a pilot project for a sen resource centre. this initiative gives the european school system the opportunity to better fulfil the needs of sen children. the board of governors of the european schools approved in july 2008 the proposal to use the european parliament reserve of eur 200 000 to make an evaluation of the existing sen policy in the european schools. this study will allow the european schools to improve the quality of integration of sen pupils. the european commission launched in july 2008 the financial procedure for the liberation of the european parliament reserve of eur 200 000. the transfer to the budgetary authorities is currently being initiated. progress has been achieved, but it is crucial that the european parliament supports the reform process initiated by the commission in order to finalise this reform and put it fully into practice as soon as possible. again, the crucial role must be played by member states. i would like to underline that we have good contacts with the member states. i hope that the swedish presidency – which is not the presidency of the european union but the presidency in the european schools board – will develop these initiatives. i would like to stress that the report drawn up by mr bösch, a member of the european parliament, has been very useful and he has been very instrumental in this issue. i myself will do everything to develop the system of european schools, because we are experiencing great difficulties with a system that was designed in 1953, and we must therefore implement some serious changes to make this system flexible and work well.
on behalf of the pse group. mr commissioner, it has already been said here that the european schools, as official educational establishments, were set up jointly by the governments of the member states of the union to provide multilingual and multicultural education, aimed primarily at the children of the staff of the institutions, who, for various reasons, are in need of reform to meet the new needs. the institutional evolution of the union itself, enlargement, the proliferation of agencies, has led to changes in the composition of the pupils of the european schools, from the cultural and linguistic point of view, and in the number of pupils, as the demand for enrolment has increased to a great extent. on the other hand, the flexibility of employment contracts has led to new socio-family and work situations which have an impact on the profile of families and their needs. as parliament has already pointed out in two resolutions, a review is needed to update these schools so that they provide the same service for which they were created, with the required quality, and that they are also accessible and overcome certain problems of access or segregation. in this connection, i welcome the announcement by the commissioner of the two studies now under way to see if they bear fruit. in short, despite the increase in the number of community languages and the increased complexity of the present situation in many respects, progress should be made in the process of reforming, opening up and improving these schools, while ensuring that their qualifications are recognised in all the member states of the union. that said, i would like to put two specific questions to the commissioner. the first concerns complaints i have received from parents of pupils who have studied at the european school, because it seems that when pupils leave after the european baccalaureate, they are penalized by having their average mark lowered by one point when they continue their studies. i would like to know if you are aware of this practice and what it is due to. and the second question is in relation to the children of parliamentary assistants. i have also received complaints from assistants who, if they want their children to be able to attend these schools, have to do so for category three; that is, they have to pay the school fees. i have gone to the page where all the information on the operation of the euro-schools is available; i have it here and i will read it in french, because that is how i got the paper. it says in the first category: 'children of staff of community institutions and organisations, the list of whom is reproduced below, employed directly and continuously for a period of at least one year'. a list of 12 points follows; point 4 reads: 'personne directement liée aux institutions communautaires par un contrat d'emploi de droit privé' (persons directly linked to the community institutions by a contract of employment in private law). so this is the case for the people or the group of people that you might think are in category one. i would like to ask you why the children of parliamentary assistants have to go for category three and pay school fees.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i believe that the message we must send to the forthcoming european council is to restore and strengthen the confidence of european citizens in our project. because we have decided to make an economic and monetary union which is under construction, it is not yet finished. and for a week, because of the contagion of the american epidemic, we have run the risk of either stampede or desertion. and i think it's been corrected. and in time it has been shown that the european institutions work: in particular, in the case of yesterday's ecofin and also with today's coordinated rate cut. what is lacking is the ability to help our production system; in this respect, in addition to the community initiatives, i will cite, for example, the case of my country, where yesterday it was decided to launch a fund of 30 000 million euros, because what needs to be done is to help companies to function. the second area where confidence is important is the ratification of the treaty of lisbon. i also had the opportunity to discuss this with minister martin. he made an accurate diagnosis of the situation, but a diagnosis without a prescription in medicine doesn't work. so what is needed is that our irish friends, after reflection and reconsideration, also realise that this is not a neutral exercise, that is to say that we too, in a union based on solidarity, are also paying, and will pay heavily, if the treaty of lisbon is not adopted before the elections. the only positive aspect of non-ratification may be that it puts the european elections at the centre. but it is important to fight and work to have the treaty of lisbon in force for the next european elections, so that the union is stronger and more united.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start my remarks with the situation on financial markets. we are in the most serious crisis in living memory. what started as a sub-prime crisis has now moved way beyond this to embrace the whole economy. fears about the ability to raise financing are creating even greater lack of confidence among all economic actors. unless there is a rapid unfreezing of lending, we face a continued downward spiral with obvious impact on economic activity. freeing up lending is the number one priority today. the measures taken by central banks today will be an important contribution to unblocking the flow of lending. one thing we have seen over the past few weeks is that no economy or financial market is immune from what is taking place. at ecofin yesterday the concern of finance ministers was evident. we recognised the need for governments to intervene to shore up the financial markets, whether it be by capital injections, guarantees or other means. there is no silver bullet here. strong, fast responses are essential. for its part, the commission is showing its capacity to respond quickly. i will be bringing to the college next week amendments to the deposit guarantee scheme which will increase the minimum level of protection, as well as requiring member states to put in place procedures for rapid pay-out. at ecofin yesterday it was agreed that member states would increase the current level to at least eur 50 000, with many going beyond this to eur 100 000. this reflects to a degree the differences in average savings in member states. in addition, we are urgently putting into place changes to our accounting rules to ensure banks in the eu can avail themselves of the same flexibility that is offered to banks in the united states, namely the option for individual banks, if they wish, to move assets from their trading books to their banking books. this is a comitology measure to which i hope parliament will be able to give its agreement as a matter of urgency. in the mean time, i would hope that national supervisors would apply these new provisions already so that banks who wish to could avail themselves of this new possibility for their third-quarter results. in addition there is the iasb’s acceptance of the us sec’s clarification of the use of fair-value accounting when there is no active market information. this is also highly relevant for banks and should be used for third-quarter reporting. we are, of course, continuing to work for the rapid implementation of the ecofin road map to strengthen the european union’s capacity to prevent and manage future financial crises. overall the implementation of these initiatives is on track. in times of crisis, politicians need to be seen to do things so as to reassure the public. things are no different here in brussels, except that our margin for manoeuvre is more limited. we do not have access to the financial resources that are necessary to combat this crisis. it is central banks and finance ministers who control the purse strings. what we have do is endeavour to maximise a common approach by member states. there can be no doubt that, by working together, member states are in a much stronger position to counteract the downward spiral we are currently in. we must continue to assist member states to work towards common goals and shared approaches. where we have the tools, we will continue to move forward quickly with any necessary measure. turning now to your report on the ‘lamfalussy follow-up and future structure of supervision’, i would like to congratulate the economic and monetary affairs committee – in particular mrs van den burg and mr dăianu – for their excellent work in producing such a thought-provoking and wide-ranging report. it highlights many of the challenges facing us now in the context of the current financial crisis. innovative and well-thought-through proposals for regulatory and supervisory reform are crucially needed in the current situation. you include in your report quite a demanding list of recommendations of where legislative action will be needed. it is heartening to see that so many of the issues you highlight are those that the commission is also prioritising. in many cases, work is either ongoing or is planned on initiatives corresponding to the recommendations. let me mention here some of our most important ongoing initiatives, such as the solvency ii proposal, the proposals for revisions to the capital requirements directive, which was adopted by the college of commissioners last week, and the legislative proposal on credit-rating agencies, due shortly. this reflects many of the recommendations put forward in your report. the proposal for amendments to the capital requirements directive covers critical areas and will fundamentally strengthen the regulatory framework for eu banks and the financial system. i hope you will fully support us on this. reaching agreement by next april is essential. soon we will also go forward with a proposal on credit-rating agencies. the proposal will aim to introduce a legally binding authorisation and robust external oversight regime, whereby european regulators will have to supervise the policies and procedures followed by the credit-rating agencies. the committee of european securities regulators (cesr) will play a strong coordination role. on the eu supervisory framework, we are working on a revision of the commission’s decisions establishing the three committees of supervisors. by the end of the year, these committees will be assigned specific, practical tasks, such as (i) mediation, (ii) drafting recommendations and guidelines, and (iii) an explicit role to strengthen the analysis and responsiveness to risks to the stability of the eu financial system. also, we have now to think about the longer-term vision of european supervision. current events are showing its limitations today. the european central bank’s handling of the crisis has been exemplary. we now have to reflect seriously on how our supervisory arrangements for the cross-border financial institutions are constructed. as president barroso announced earlier, we want to establish a high-level group to work through the various options and make recommendations on how we should proceed. this takes up the suggestion in your report of a high-level group to tackle european supervisory arrangements. i have been around here long enough to know that agreement on reforms to supervisory arrangements will not be easy. but if we do not draw the lessons from the current crisis, then we are doing a great disservice to the european union. this reflection should not blind us to the necessity to take the pragmatic steps to strengthen supervision that we have put forward in the solvency ii proposal and in the capital requirements directive. colleges of supervisors are essential. the time ahead will be fraught. all of us have to take our respective responsibilities. now is the time for us to show that, by working together, we can confront the challenges. i look forward to the strong support of parliament in this regard.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, we cannot close our eyes. the current crisis reveals a deficit in economic supervision and governance in financial markets. citizens are clear that identifying risks and preventing them is much better than correcting them when they have resulted in imbalances and caused damage to financial markets and the real economy. the times when a significant part of these financial markets operated with opacity and uncontrolled or abandoned to the irresponsible game of reckless or unscrupulous operators must end. the free movement of capital, economic and monetary union, the increasing complexity of financial services and globalisation require that we move beyond a national supervisory framework. we must move towards european supervision. the european union cannot be absent and on the sidelines of new concepts such as macro-supervision, such as systemic risks, such as global financial stability, such as the need to participate in global economic governance. it is therefore necessary to move towards european supervision and to do so decisively. not to do so will be a grave strategic mistake, when world power is changing. the inertia of solvency ii will have to be overcome and an integrated european approach will have to be rectified and accepted. ensuring consistency and fairness in the settlement of differences between authorities or between different financial sectors requires abandoning unilateralism and moving towards a genuinely operational european system. you cannot settle a dispute between two authorities by the decision of one of them alone; you cannot be both judge and party. i therefore wholeheartedly support the report by mr van den burg and mr d'anna. i am grateful that my amendments have been taken into account and have inspired some of the commitments, and i hope that your more ambitious proposals will succeed. it will be good for our citizens and indispensable for the financial markets.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, some of us witnessed the real effort made by all the participants in the doha round ministerial summit in july and, in particular, the effort of the european union, represented very well by commissioner mandelson. the presence of the commissioner who is with us today at the geneva negotiations was also appreciated. and so there was a sense of frustration that we could experience on the front lines, seeing that, in the end, all that effort and all that energy had produced no concrete result, although they had reached a level of approach that seemed to imply some kind of result. in the resolution we are presenting here, which will be voted on in this house, we express our commitment as a parliament to what was achieved there. we asked that what was achieved there, even if it was not really a closed agreement, be the basis on which to start working now, so that those energies are not wasted. we are asking, with an effort of ingenuity, with a point of ingenuity, that the doha round be effectively ended as soon as possible. it is possible, it is likely, that some people will think that our statement is naive, and even more naive when the main european negotiator has not even believed in it enough and has left for his country, leaving the whole negotiation, in the name of europe, in the hands of a person who knows nothing about everything that is on the table, despite the future capabilities he may have. so it is true that our resolution is very naive. but we must be clear and forceful. without the doha round being closed, the developing countries lose. without closing the doha round multilateralism is in serious jeopardy and, above all, in a situation of global uncertainty such as we are experiencing, as long as the doha round is not closed, the other fronts that the global agenda demands of us in the field of climate change and in the field of food price increases cannot be opened. there are other fronts to be resolved and none of them can be resolved until we put an effort into closing this round of negotiations. we will remain committed to this in parliament.
madam president, we would have liked to see mr mandelson here still in office, without the shock he has given, which seems to be the european union's coup de grace to the doha round. the global financial crisis is not looking good for doha in the immediate future. the failure of the community to achieve its objectives is in turn aggravating the world economic situation, and the least developed countries will pay the heaviest price. the wto is necessary; the regulation of international trade is essential. regulation is now a key value in globalisation, as we are seeing. it is therefore necessary to reach an agreement at the round. we must think about improving the functioning and legitimacy of the wto and the role of the so-called emerging countries, which play the role of developing countries or developed countries, as they see fit. as the resolution says, the dialogue must not only be north-south, but also south-south. the european union has made very important steps in these negotiations, more than others. we've also given them with initiatives like everything but guns. others must also move in that direction, and in the meantime, let us conclude the outstanding association agreements, such as mercosur, which in this new context are essential.
madam president, today's debate is certainly bringing out great agreements. one of them is that, in the face of the crisis we are experiencing, what is needed is more regulation and multilateral regulation. if you look at finance, the role of the international monetary fund or the world bank is truly undesirable even for the worst of enemies. they merely make catastrophic predictions and show that they are less and less aware of what is happening, that their influence and weight are practically volatile. well, if that's the case and we have an instrument like the world trade organization, what we have to do is use it. today more than ever we need regulation, but today more than ever we need a real economy, as opposed to a financial and speculative economy. the exchange of goods and services is the real economy and economic growth to have employment is based on the real economy. i therefore do not agree that the crisis shows that it will be more difficult to conclude the doha round, but on the contrary: any responsible government should make an effective effort to conclude this round, whether it is from the north or the south, whether it is from an underdeveloped or a developed country. i believe we have a global market and we need visible hands. in this case, the world trade organization. we will have to improve the way things work, we will have to put more development paradigm in front of less free trade paradigm, certainly, and, of course, we will have to have political will. the union, with the new commissioner, i suppose will continue to have it.
member of the commission. - mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, water scarcity and drought are a major problem for the world, and it is clear that climate change will exacerbate this problem and lead to serious water shortages. this trend was confirmed by another report on the impacts of europe's changing climate, adopted by the european environment agency last week. over the last 30 years, the number and intensity of droughts in the european union have increased dramatically, affecting more than 100 million people and almost a third of the eu's territory in 2003. since the commission adopted its communication on water scarcity and drought, we have seen further evidence of this trend. cyprus is experiencing its worst drought since 1900. during the summer, the supply of water for irrigation was suspended, and as a result, agriculture suffered an 80% loss of yield and, in some areas, the complete destruction of crops. the estimated amount of consequential damage exceeds 1,5% of the gdp of cyprus. this was far from an isolated case 2008 is the third consecutive year of drought in cyprus. it is therefore the right time for parliament to discuss its report on water scarcity and drought. i am glad that the european parliament is taking this opportunity to send a clear signal that it is important to tackle this issue. global warming, a growing population, and rising per capita consumption mean that water resources are under increasing pressure. and therefore, it's likely that water shortages and droughts will occur more frequently. these have a direct impact on the population and on water-dependent economic sectors such as agriculture, tourism, industry, energy and transport. they also have negative side effects on biodiversity, water quality, increased risk of forest fires and land depletion. without urgent action, entire regions within and outside the european union are at risk of becoming desertified. to prevent this, our first priority must be to shift towards habits of efficient use and conservation of water, with water-saving measures being taken at all levels. this will require not only action at government level but also the involvement of all citizens. the latest eurobarometer survey on public attitudes to climate change indicates that 62% of europeans rank climate change and global warming as the two most serious global problems, that 68% of europeans consider 'poverty, lack of food and drinking water' to be the most serious problem, and in this context it is encouraging that the concerns expressed by citizens are also reflected in their actions: 61% of europeans say they are themselves involved in the fight against climate change, and more than half of them are reducing their water consumption in their households. mr president, madam member, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to say that your report welcomes the commission's communication and supports the first set of policy options for action it sets out. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr seeber, for his excellent work in preparing this report, and mrs herranz garcía and mrs garcía pérez of the committee on agriculture and the committee on regional development respectively for their positive and constructive contributions. the report, together with the conclusions adopted by the council last year, shows that there is broad agreement on what needs to be done. the challenge now is to turn that political support into real action.
opinion of the committee on regional development - mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating mr seeber on his report and to say that we in the committee on regional development are aware that water scarcity has become one of the fundamental challenges in cohesion policy, since it has so far affected 11% of the european population and 17% of the territory of the union. this is why this aspect must be taken into account in future cohesion policy, by making the necessary budgetary measures and instruments available to this end. the opportunity offered by the structural funds to meet the challenge of water efficiency in terms of saving and re-use should be emphasised to regional and local authorities. we should also ask the commission to promote the setting up of the european drought observatory, in order to work on supplementing information at national, regional and local level. finally, we must recognise that water scarcity and drought have direct effects on social, economic and territorial cohesion, as the impact is more pronounced in certain regions, leading to land abandonment, forest fires and soil degradation, which represents a major obstacle to their development.
the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr seeber on the work he has done, because his report reflects many of the concerns expressed in this house about these crucial problems for the whole of the european union. these are: water scarcity and drought, issues which are no longer just a problem of the countries of southern europe. i am glad that this project incorporates some of the reflections made in the opinion i was rapporteur for in the committee on agriculture, in favour of an agricultural activity, by highlighting, for example, the role of farmers in the sustainable management of available resources. it also includes a reference to drought and water scarcity as factors aggravating commodity prices, which i think is also very important to note in this day and age so that we are aware not only of the environmental dimension of this problem but also of some of its most important economic consequences. the committee on the environment also included the idea of setting up a european drought observatory, an action which is also mentioned in the opinion of the committee on agriculture and which i hope will one day be reflected in concrete deeds. the text to be voted on tomorrow does not, however, include a proposal by the committee on agriculture to consider the setting up of an economic adaptation fund against drought, which would benefit all economic sectors, including agriculture. i would like to make it clear that i will continue to advocate the creation of this fund, an idea which i will put to parliament again when the commission's communication on adaptation to climate change is due in the coming months. it seems to me that, after the solidarity fund was set up, which was originally set up to help alleviate the losses caused by climate disasters, it is time to think about an instrument which acts a priori and is intended to finance preventive measures to reduce the environmental and economic cost of these climate disasters.
mr president, i welcome the fact that there is a document on water, although i think that this document has unfortunately, and because of the climate change, been reduced to a partial and very specific view of the subject, which is water conservation. however, i commend several points that richard seeber has emphasized and expanded on on the basis of the commission document, namely that water is a right for everyone - water for all - and that it must be borne in mind that there needs to be closer cooperation between the regions, which is a phenomenon that i do not think is current at the moment, and that is a good lesson for all those who believe that water is the property of whoever has it in front of them in their river. i have to say, however, that i think we have to start thinking in terms of water and climate change with a big picture. there are three problems in the world right now: one of them is hunger and food shortages, another is climate change, and another is drought, which is an evil that has been with us for many centuries. well, increasing resources is fundamental and not the subject here. the existing resources must be increased, and we are talking only about amendments tabled by parliament. not only desalination, but also the regulation of rivers, the new engineering and the new water paradigm, which consists in making every effort to keep water in the territory: with reforestation, with drought tanks to recover water in floods, with the recharging of aquifers in times of floods and with a series of other measures. we also need to think about an agricultural strategy to produce products that can generate the same plant mass as the existing one, but with a strategy focused on new crops, which can grow with little water. for the same reason, we must talk about a water economy, because it is not just a question of raising prices, as is said here, or of talking about real prices, but there is a much more complex water economy. so, agricultural strategy, consumption strategy, land use, river regulation and, if water has to be diverted, that it be diverted. the important thing is that the world remains sustainable, thinking about people and the economy.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the commission for finally presenting a document on the problem of drought and water scarcity which we have been calling for in this parliament for some time. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the water resources of the community are not depleted, and that the community's water resources are not depleted. i must congratulate the rapporteur, mr seeber, on his great work and also thank him for his active participation and presence in the debates on europe's environment day at the 2008 international exhibition in my city, zaragoza. i should like to thank him because it was at this exhibition that the european union, through mr seeber, was able to express its concern for the sustainability of water and to set out the needs, from the european union and from the european parliament, and the problems affecting the european union. i should also say that today we know that the problems of water scarcity are closely linked to the cycle of combating climate change, because in that cycle we know that aggressive deforestation and urbanisation contribute to the scarcity of those water resources, and therefore the competent authorities must take account of water-related considerations in their planning of the various land uses and, in particular, in relation to the development of economic activities in increasingly sensitive watersheds. in this respect, as the commission proposes in principle, we support the hierarchy of water uses and, as mr seeber acknowledges in his report, we point out that long-distance water transfers should certainly not be the solution to the problem of water scarcity. our reference point, on the contrary, must always be the correct application of the water framework directive, as a framework for achieving good status for all european waters, respecting the unity of the basin and also the higher quality objectives. as mr seeber's report very well acknowledges, there are losses of up to 50% in cities and 20% of water losses in europe in general. and it would be possible, through different mechanisms, technologies and new formulas for saving and efficiency, to reach savings of 40%. to do so, we must therefore promote sustainable water use, the protection of available water resources and their efficient and sustainable use. the proposal to keep the european drought observatory within the european environment agency and the proposal to set up a network of cities to promote sustainable water use are therefore proposals which we welcome.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as you know, in march 2002 the council and parliament agreed by conciliation on what has become directive 2002/15/ec, which lays down the requirements to be met in the working hours of workers performing mobile road works, with a view to ensuring their health and safety, with a view to ensuring road safety and also to bringing all undertakings closer together under conditions of competition. all kinds of work were introduced, not only driving but also the physical work that these drivers sometimes do for loading and unloading or for cleaning cars. the most important issue was resolved in that conciliation, which was whether or not to include the selfemployed, and it was decided by common agreement of the parties, and with the support of the commission, that the selfemployed would be included to put an end once and for all to the problems posed by the double legislation, the double standard applied to drivers who were selfemployed and those who were employed. the absence of a common regulation posed enormous problems: these selfemployed workers worked long hours, raising personal and road safety problems, and also because the selfemployed worker formula was used falsely to break conditions of fair competition. it was therefore a great success to cut off this dual legislation for good, with a reasonable transitional period, and we all - the commission, the council and parliament - came to the conclusion in 2002 that this was the most rational and logical thing to do. we have made this report on our own initiative and we have had the support of the committee on employment and the committee on transport because, commissioner, this principle, this commitment of the commission, council and parliament, now seems not to be so firm; there seems to be ambiguities; there seems to be confusion and explanations that do not satisfy us. the commission should have made a report and should have put forward a rule to bring about the effective incorporation of these selfemployed workers. and the truth is that the report that had to be done was submitted last year, but it was insufficient, according to his own words, and we are waiting for the final report. so now, six months after the end of the mandate for integration, we have no report and no initiative from the commission. that is why, mr commissioner, as the date for the incorporation of the selfemployed approaches - and we have no clarity or conviction that the will that existed at that time will continue to be maintained, and there are rumours that these criteria are to be revised - parliament has made this report with two objectives: to remind and to demand. the council, the commission and parliament must remember the commitments they have made to workers, to businesses and to the general public, and they must remember the commitment to put an end to this situation, which is a hotbed of litigation, and to demand that the promises made be fulfilled. because there's no circumstance that has arisen that changes the reasons. the need remains the same; that is why, for the health of workers, for road safety and for perfect competition, we include the selfemployed in the directive. one last request, chief. i think it would be very important, at the end of your term, that you do not back down on the commitment you have made. economic demands, or some sectors of the profession seeking extravagant competitive advantages, can never take precedence over the needs of the public goods i am referring to. that is why, and because it is important, commissioner, i would like to ask you, on behalf of all my colleagues, not to break the balance and to bring about the promised regulation quickly and successfully.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the decision which my report proposes to this house is first and foremost a political one in the purest sense of the word. the least of the decisions we are proposing, although obviously relevant, is the formal decision we are going to adopt. we are going to amend our rules of procedure to bring to the formal level what is already real, what the various institutions of the union have been doing for years. i want to remember it. we shall be proposing that this house use the union flag at all its meeting places and on the most solemn occasions, for example, constituent sessions or when we receive heads of state. i would also like to see the anthem used on these occasions, the slogan 'united in diversity' written on all our papers and europe day celebrated. mr president, although you insisted, we are not proposing the euro as a symbol, because the euro, in our view, is a great instrument, a magnificent instrument which, by the way, is helping us to cope with the global financial crisis. what would become of us without the euro? we would be back in that storm of competitive devaluations that would have brought our real economy to its knees in the face of international financial speculation. but the most important of the proposals in my report is the political message to the public. the message is clear: the symbols of the union are alive in the institution which represents, more directly than any other, the 500 million inhabitants of our 27 member states. in other words, the constituent process that we started with the convention in 2002 is still alive, despite the obstacles and the setbacks, which have been no small or insignificant ones. the convention, to which i had the honour of belonging, together with other distinguished colleagues here, did not hesitate to include the symbols of the union for the first time in primary law. fortunately, this led to a curious situation, where the most important law did not include what citizens have long embraced: symbols. the decision was unanimous in the convention and no one questioned it during the ratification process. on the contrary, it was one of the most celebrated contents of european citizenship. that is why it is surprising - and i cannot help saying it - that the intergovernmental conference which adopted the treaty of lisbon decided to delete all european symbols from that text. the truth is that we can, with our decision today, right that wrong. no, of course, we are not amending primary law, but we can do our part and push for the officialisation of symbols in the institutional framework. the symbols express a common will and shared values. in the case of europe, it is to build a project of all and for all, seeking unity, freedom, democracy, justice, equality and solidarity, which are european values which we consider to be universal at the same time. symbols also allow us to fix what we are and want to be in relation to the rest of the world, which recognizes us through them. who has not felt proud to represent the union when recognised by the flag on our observer vest, for example? and, furthermore, the symbols allow us to remember where we came from. that day in europe when our story of unity, of growth, of freedom began. what the president of the european parliament said a few days ago in madrid about young people and history has a lot to do with symbols. we must remind young people where we come from, who we are and where we are going. the symbols say that very clearly and quickly. these symbols unite us, not divide us. and that is not only a great virtue, but, above all, a great advantage. mr president, the great writer aldous huxley said that the experience of life is not the most important thing, but how that experience is used is. so are the symbols. the flag is not there to be an icon but to be used in our daily lives and to reinforce the unity that characterizes us.
mr president, i am reminded of that compatriot of yours who was accosted in the street by a sans-culotte during the french revolution, who said: 'why are you not wearing the tricolore, the symbol of the revolution?' and that fellow countryman of his replied that what is felt in the heart should not be outwardly. i mean, i feel more like one of those who, probably out of modesty, like a good spaniard, doesn't express his feelings. but that does not prevent me, mr president, from being moved when i see the european flag in the ljubljana city hall, or when, at a rally with our colleague pierre lequiller in the yvelines, i hear the european anthem after la marseillaise, or when i read in a newspaper yesterday that the winner of the prince of asturias award, the bulgarian tzvetan todorov, says that 'united in diversity is what europe means today'. and that's our motto. i am not one of those, mr president, who have a small, local mentality, a grey outlook on life and who believe that the european flag is opposed to the national flag, or that the anthem is opposed to the anthem of their country. mr president, that is simply nonsense. what the symbols mean is a demonstration of our belonging to a common community; it does not in any way mean a dislocation from our homeland. it means a plus, it means we share something with the rest of europe. i therefore believe that this initiative by mr carnero, whom i congratulate, and the committee on constitutional affairs is the right one. because it is an initiative that shows, at a time when we 'choose the two europas' in that beautiful expression of our dear and remembered comrade bronisław geremek, that we europeans want to continue to show the rest of our european compatriots that we share values. and those values are also externalized, not only, but also, in symbols. the european people's party group will therefore be voting in favour of this proposal for a regulation. and i hope to be thrilled, as all of you are, when the ode to joy next plays in this chamber.
mr president, i would like to ask the following question to those who have said that the symbols and anthems are national: my city, where i live, has a flag, the flag of madrid, and the community in which i live, the community of madrid, has a flag and anthem. are they state-run? do you have a vocation to become a state? do those who say that flags and anthems are state symbols want to suppress local and regional flags? let them answer me, your honor.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the symbols do not represent only states. at this stage of our development, symbols are not elements of confrontation, they are not elements of combat, of battle; they are instruments to transmit ideas, to cohesive people around values. that is what our flag, our anthem, our motto and europe day mean. the intergovernmental conference was forced by some to withdraw the symbols from the treaty, against the wishes of a large majority. the vast majority of them preferred to put forward the fundamental elements of the constitution rather than allow themselves to be ensnared in the traps set by those who questioned not only the symbols but also the need to take steps forward in political union. that is why 16 countries, including my own, have made a statement stating that they consider the use of symbols to be a reality, an official fact and, moreover, a positive element. no one questioned the symbols of the european union during the campaigns for the referendums which failed to ratify the constitution. let's be serious: does anyone remember significantly important sectors of french or dutch public opinion saying no to the constitution because it collected the symbols? i'm not the one. and i campaigned in france in an active way. there could be other reasons, which you can share or not, but they had nothing to do with the symbols. i feel spanish because i'm european and european because i'm spanish. that is why when i see the flag of my country next to the flag of the twelve stars, i feel reinforced in both concepts, which are part of my life; when i see the president-in-office of the union appear with the flag of the french republic next to that of the european union, i also feel proud. and above all, i am proud to have been applauded, as many of us are, when those who receive the distribution of humanitarian aid or see our election observation missions recognize us by the flag and applaud that flag. we would be ridiculous if we ourselves denied what others acknowledge with friendliness and joy.
mr president, i have to say that i voted against this report because it is a bad report. the issue of climate change is a comprehensive issue and water is a problem that affects the territory and needs a comprehensive treatment. this document understands that the only solution is to save tap water, save water in the city's pipes. that is a reductionist, non-systemic and unsustainable view. i voted against it, even though it contains some good things, such as the fact that water should be for everyone, or the fact that resources must be shared and that there must be solidarity between regions. but i insist - and i agree with mr hegyi - that we must act on the ground. the new paradigm is about keeping water in the territory: new dams, new river regulation, disaster prevention, new farming strategies that allow for new vision and, of course, transshipment, if necessary. because social affects man and economic affects man and the new food shortage in the world. that's what this project should have taken into account.
in writing. - european citizens, like the vast majority of members, are extremely concerned about the state of the economy and the evident fragility of our banking sector. where is the security of our jobs, savings and pensions? the citizens of europe, far from being 'united in diversity' as the eu's motto says, are more 'scared in the face of adversity' and will look at us with disbelief at this vote. with this report, parliament is looking at its navel and throwing away all the good work we are doing. the authorities of the parliament regularly put their hands on their heads and ask themselves 'why are we not valued by european citizens as we should be?' they seem to have convinced themselves that symbols and anthems will solve the problem. i suggest that if some members were to focus less on carpets and beethoven and more on dedication to the real work of parliament, we would not have to ask voters for credibility.
atletico madrid, the fans and even the spanish police are being mistreated by the european football federation. but the case goes beyond the particular, because those federal bodies increase the sanctions for those who resort to ordinary justice. this medieval concept, this law of the funnel, is incompatible with the law and with the european institutions, from which we must react. we shall do so, because those arbitrary medieval lords of the sword and the gallows must be brought into line with the respect for the law and the ordinary procedural guarantees of our europe.
in writing. we support the enhanced cooperation mechanism in this case, because it provides greater legal certainty and stability, avoids the so-called forum shopping and advances the european construction. in addition, the new system is beneficial in that it sets as the first applicable law the law of common habitual residence, which replaces, in the spanish case, the criterion of the law of common nationality, which, given the number of immigrant couples residing in spain, is very practical for the courts and the judiciary.
mr president, commissioner, terrorism is a global phenomenon and so is the activity of serious organised crime, and therefore the means must be proportionate and the fight must be effective. i have noted your answers to the questions, and they were timely: it is true that guarantees must be demanded, it is true that this is a sensitive issue, but it is no less true that it is absolutely inexcusable to set up, to form a global and harmonized response. some, who are a little distant from terrorism, are more concerned with individual guarantees. i am concerned about the individual and the collective, and it is absolutely necessary that we start where we can. if we're going to start with air travel, where the companies already have that data, let's start there. we demand guarantees, we look at the scope of application, we start with international transport relations, and then, oh, we have to go further inland because terrorists often do not come from outside, but from within. let them ask the united states, let them ask the others, that this is the way it is and that is the way we will have to approach it in the future.
opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. - mr president, commissioner, we in the committee on women's rights felt that the success of the first phase of the programme was less encouraging in terms of the participation of women: 44% of female students, but with a very uneven participation depending on the country, and only 22% of female teachers, a figure which we find unacceptable. this is why, in this second phase, our objective has been twofold: to defend, once again, the right to equal education to achieve just and democratic societies and to enhance the participation of women to avoid a loss of talent for science and culture, all this through gender-sensitive selection criteria, a balanced representation of men and women in the programme committees and with gender-disaggregated data in the evaluation reports. we are aware that the situation of women in many countries makes it difficult to achieve a greater gender balance, but we believe that further efforts are needed in this area by the commission. i congratulate the rapporteur.
on behalf of the green group, mr commissioner and mrs sarnez, i think that the appreciation and recognition of your spirit and willingness to agree to the amendments was almost unanimous in the committee, and i think it is being repeated here. as you said in your speech, what this programme is really about, among many other things, is to give a positive image. the positive aspect of this report, in our view, is that it has managed to strike a balance between what the initial proposal called excellence and what development cooperation is. i think that excellence, which avoids a brain drain, has been clearly reflected in the amendments and we have been able to reach a consensus on this, which we consider to be a positive aspect of this report, and also, as a second point, to advocate greater control throughout the whole section on granting grants, which was initially an amendment that you also accepted from our group, for which i also thank you, mrs sarnez, and i congratulate the committee on the report.
mr president, the commissioner has spoken of overcapacity in the outermost regions, of overcapacity in the fleet. i agree with him. the question i put to the commissioner is this: does the commission realise that the outermost regions - the canary islands, the azores and madeira in the central atlantic; guadeloupe, martinique and guiana in the caribbean, and the island of réunion in the indian ocean - are surrounded by vast sea areas in which, as a result of overexploitation, there is a gradual reduction in fishery resources? does the commission have any information on this? does the commission believe that it could help the fishing fleet in these regions by helping to preserve the marine resources in those areas?
the rapporteur, mr president, is presenting an own-initiative report on 'better lawmaking 2006' in accordance with article 9 of the protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the report is a bit broad, but i would like to focus on two or three aspects. the first aspect is the importance of the legislative process in the european union. there is a tendency, so to speak, to slip, to adopt what is called the indicative law or soft law, under which certain communications or reports or documents are regarded as if they were binding legal rules. the concern of my report is that it clearly distinguishes between what are mere indications of administrative institutions and what is the legislative process. the legislative process, through regulations and directives, is now perfectly provided for in the treaties of the european union, through an initiative of the commission requiring approval either by the council alone or by the council in a co-legislative process with parliament. in this respect, i think it is important to stress the importance of this legislative nature, because the legislative nature implies the incorporation of the general interest through the concentration of petitions in the bodies with legislative powers. there is a danger and another deviation that certain entities or certain sectors may self-regulate. well, this is true, for example, of certain associations, professional bodies, corporate bodies, etc., but to expect that a particular sector should self-regulate is, in my view, a very serious mistake and we have seen this recently as a consequence of the deregulation measures in the united states, which have led the financial sector to self-regulate, with very serious consequences for the whole world economy. that is to say, regulation cannot be left to those who are subject to regulation. self-regulation is a contradiction in principle, it is only possible to the extent that bodies of an internal nature regulate themselves, but it is not conceivable that a given sector can be governed by a system of self-regulation, and the same is true of co-regulation. the important thing from the european parliament's point of view is that clear legislative procedures are established, that is to say that the commission's proposals are discussed in parliament and the council and that legislative resolutions are adopted. a second part of this is the complexity that european union law is acquiring and the difficulty for the ordinary citizen, including specialists in european union law, to understand what is really going on. the knowledge of european union law must be simplified, and the only way to simplify it is by codification, recasting or something like that; that is, we cannot continue to draw up legal rules as they become necessary and then forget that we have been adopting them. it is true that in recent years there has been some improvement in this respect, in that, by working together parliament, the commission and the council, the comitology procedures have been changed, for example, but ideally we should have, in the computer age, an automatic codification procedure, that is to say, that any new legal rule that is adopted immediately obtains recognition, consolidation through codification procedures. the report insists on periodic codification; i would say that it should be practically automatic, so that as soon as we adopt legal rules, those legal rules would be incorporated into the legal corpus of the european union and would constitute the new code of the european union. i am not proposing a sort of napoleonic code of european union law, but a permanent codification, which i think will not be difficult, as i said before, in the computer age.
mr president, i will say what i agree with the presidency and what i disagree with, which i think is missing from the presidency's speech. i agree that the origin of the crisis is not confined to the subsidy crisis in the united states. i agree with the principle of what greenspan now calls the stage of "irrational exuberance". i agree that markets have failed because regulation has failed and public authorities have had to come to the rescue. i agree that this is a global crisis and therefore i agree with the need for a bretton woods that some call ii, some call iii. the reference made by president sarkozy to the present system reminds me very much of what general de gaulle said before the first bretton woods fell, before the 'surrender' of fort knox, when nixon decided to decouple the dollar from gold. for that, we need to set in motion european diplomacy, a diplomacy of the euro, for europe to speak with one voice and we need to 'fix the house'. and "fixing the house" means going deeper into the financial markets -- in this case, retailers, to get a proper size -- and thinking about the regulatory framework. i agree that the european central bank has done well. he did it quickly, but he did it erratically. the rules on maturities and guarantees have been changed three times and banks need certainty in their funding. secondly, the 'lender-of-last-resort' monetary policy remains a centralised policy. banking supervision remains decentralised. is it not time, mr president, to consider whether we want to develop article 105 of the treaty, which gives the central bank greater powers of supervision? i agree entirely with the issue of economic governance. since we are in this ideological dance, marx said that when economic structures change, the political superstructure must change. we did maastricht, we did not fix the institutional architecture. we must look for ways of making progress on this issue before lisbon. and thirdly, and very importantly, a very specific request. we must oppose the financial economy to the real economy. do not resign from the presidency, mr president, without giving the commission specific tasks to make a lisbon+ agenda that is in force on 1 january 2011 and in which the financial frameworks are reviewed. and one final appointment. on this ideological issue, a spanish philosopher unamuno said that he was anticlerical in defense of the church. i am against absolute deregulation against the market. i think that is where the presidency and i agree.
the first point we have to deal with is the statements by the council and the commission on eu-russia relations.
member of the commission. − mr president, the european union’s relationship with russia is one of the most challenging of our times. on the one hand, we see a complex web of joint activities and interwoven interests. on the other, we see the backdrop of events in georgia. the european council has asked for a review of eu-russia relations and this reflection takes place in the context of events which have cast a serious shadow over the eu-russian relationship. the violation of georgia’s territorial integrity with the use of force and russia’s unilateral recognition of abkhazia and south ossetia remain unacceptable, and we cannot share the principles of foreign policy recently articulated in moscow, including the resurgence of spheres of influence. therefore, the ongoing review has to make a rather sober assessment of the eu’s own self-interest in this relationship. yet, at the same time, economic and trade relations between the european union and russia are strong, and getting stronger. russia is already our third-most important trading partner and we see growth rates of up to 20% a year. energy is a major factor, but there is also impressive growth in services. with its recent high growth rates and emerging middle class, russia is an important emerging market, right on our doorstep, that offers opportunities for eu business, notwithstanding the effects of the present financial crisis. the european union is a major investor in russia, accounting for 80% of cumulative foreign investment. a significant share of russian foreign reserves is in euro, making russia one of the largest holders of euro-denominated assets in the world. for all these reasons, we have a stake in the continuing growth of the russian economy and in supporting russia’s quest for modernisation, including the development of a truly independent judiciary able to enforce contracts. this is in line with the emphasis which president medvedev has placed on the importance of the rule of law in russia. the security of energy supply and demand is a key component of our relationship. eu member states are major buyers of russian energy products and this is unlikely to change in the short to medium term. the relationship is one of interdependence, not dependence. exports to the european union have made an important contribution to the impressive growth rates russia has seen over the past five to six years. nevertheless, a great deal of work has yet to be done to build up a genuine energy partnership based on the principles enshrined in the energy charter treaty, namely transparency, reciprocity and non-discrimination. even more importantly, russia is a key geopolitical actor, whose constructive involvement in international affairs is a necessary precondition for an effective international community. we therefore engage on iran, the middle east, afghanistan, the balkans and elsewhere, as well as in multilateral fora. we also have a common interest in pursuing the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. in all these areas, cooperation is not always easy but we need to continue. greater cooperation in the area of freedom, security and justice is helping to tackle threats posed by challenges such as terrorism and organised crime. it is through dialogue we have built up that we are able to discuss areas such as human rights. consultations are taking place in paris today. we will once again remind russia of its commitments as a member of the council of europe and the osce, particularly regarding freedom of the press and the events unfolding in ingushetia, for instance, as well as other human rights issues. for us, it is clear: europe upholds values and established norms of international conduct, and we stand by these in all circumstances. these include respect of territorial integrity and the peaceful resolution of disputes. the european council has noted with satisfaction that russian troops have withdrawn from the zones adjacent to south ossetia and abkhazia as an essential step to implementing the six-point plan. talks in geneva were launched last week and this was another important step forward. there is, of course, a great deal more to do. tomorrow i will host a donors’ conference for georgia to mobilise funding for the reconstruction of damaged infrastructure and the reintegration of internally displaced people, and to accelerate georgia’s economic recovery from the conflict. in cooperation with parliament, i intend to devote up to eur 500 million for this purpose, and i should like to express my thanks to the chairs of the committee on budgets and the committee on foreign affairs, who have written to me expressing their support for this approach. the review of eu-russia relations with the european council, as requested, will present a comprehensive overview of the many strands of the relationship, from our efforts to support russia’s accession to the wto, to visa facilitation, customs cooperation, educational exchanges and cooperation in scientific research. this review should guide us in approaching all our current activities with russia and those which are currently on hold. it should be discussed at the next general affairs council on 10 november 2008, at which i hope we will be able to find the right understanding on pursuing negotiations on a new eu-russia agreement. i say this because i know of no better way to pursue our own interests and make our concerns heard. on the other hand, we must not behave as though nothing has happened. in all that we do, we must ensure and make clear that we have a very clear assessment of our goals and ensure that the eu stands behind these goals as a united force. it is perhaps fitting that we are holding this debate today on the eve of tomorrow’s international donors’ conference that, as i said, i will preside over with the world bank and the french and the czech current and future presidencies. the european union will continue to play its role, as we have done throughout this crisis, as a constructive, reliable partner, guided by its values and making a decisive contribution to stability and to peace.
president of the council. - mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to apologize - i thank mrs benita for speaking before me - because i have just come from the conference of committee chairmen and the discussions have gone a little longer than expected, given the debate this morning with the president of the council and the votes that were taken. so i apologize to you. as the commissioner has pointed out, we are indeed at a crossroads in relations between russia and europe, especially in the wake of the conflict with georgia. the council discussed this on 13 october, following the extraordinary european council of 1 september, as mrs ferrero-waldner recalled. on that occasion, it noted that the deployment by the european union of the autonomous civilian observer mission to georgia had been followed by a withdrawal of troops from the areas adjacent to south ossetia and abkhazia. this is a further and essential step in the implementation of the agreements of 12 august and 8 september, concluded with the mediation of the european union, in the interests of respect for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia, as i have had the opportunity to say on several occasions before your committee on foreign affairs. the european union will continue to encourage the parties to pursue the implementation of these commitments in the context of the discussions provided for in the agreements of 12 august and 8 september. you know that these discussions began in geneva on 15 october under the auspices of the union, the united nations and the osce. for the preparation and conduct of these negotiations we have a special representative for the crisis in georgia, ambassador pierre morel, who has done an excellent job. the first meeting, held on 15 october, brought together the parties concerned. so, of course, this is going to be a long process, it is a long process, but, finally, when we remember what the usual peace processes are, because we remember the situation in the balkans ... i think that the fact that there has been a meeting to bring all the parties together is in itself an important step, even though we know that the road ahead will be long, as i have indicated. the next meeting of the process will be held in geneva on 18 november, and we hope that the parties will commit themselves to finding a pragmatic formula for continuing the discussions, which should allow all the remaining issues to be dealt with, in particular the question of security and stability arrangements, including in the upper kadori valley and the akhalgori region, and, of course, the urgent question of displaced persons. the union is determined to maintain its commitment to the conflict settlement process in georgia and to reach a comprehensive settlement based on the principles of international law. in the immediate future, in a more general context, the european council asked the commission and the council to carry out a full and thorough assessment of the relationship between the union and russia in the run-up to the next summit on 14 november. this assessment will be taken into account in the further negotiations on the new partnership agreement with russia. as the president of the council, president sarkozy, said this morning, it is essential to have a dialogue with russia, it is in our interest, as relations with russia are important. the commissioner said that russia is an indispensable partner, that there is an interdependence between the european union and russia, and that it is clear that it is also through dialogue that we can ensure that the situation with regard to human rights in russia and the region improves. we have a good chance of inviting russia to the cooperation that both sides need. we need russia - i repeat - to face global challenges, such as the fight against terrorism, climate change or the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. the european union has made this choice, and we believe that it is in russia's interest to make this choice, and that is why we really want to continue this dialogue. the summit on 14 november will be an opportunity to examine the different dimensions of the relationship we need to have with russia and we will have to continue a constructive engagement to see if russia wants to draw all the benefits from this dialogue. but we must continue this dialogue - as the president-in-office of the council said this morning - without compromising the fundamental principles on which the european construction is based. dialogue with russia can only be based on respect for the sovereignty of states, the rule of law and common rules. in this context, russia's membership of an organisation such as the world trade organisation is in our common interest. it is a means of resolving many disputes affecting a number of member states. i'm thinking of the duty on timber exports, the overflying taxes from siberia. and the fact that we are, in accordance with the discussions which are also taking place this morning, embarking on a closer economic and commercial relationship with russia seems to us also important. we must also have a zone with russia that is more clearly defined in terms of economic and trade and we must contribute, if possible, to the creation of a common economic area between the european union and russia. in this context, we will of course continue to stress to russia the importance of transparency, reciprocity and non-discrimination in the energy sector. this also applies more broadly to the question of investment, since european union companies operating in russia are often faced with practical problems which cannot currently be satisfactorily resolved. it is also clear that we will have to discuss with russia the impact of the financial crisis at this summit. this is a new element, an important element for the european union. it is also an important element for russia and for investment policies and for trade policies between the union and russia. we will of course also recall - as i have already said - our concerns about respect for commitments in the field of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. on the international level we will discuss all the cooperation issues relating to our common neighbourhood and, of course, those which are of relevance after the conflict with georgia. but we will also address international issues in which we have common interests, such as the middle east, iran and afghanistan. in conclusion, i would like to say that it is in our interest to continue, and even to strengthen, the dialogue with russia, while respecting fundamental rights. we believe that this is the only voice that will allow russia to evolve and ensure that we can have a future based on more shared values. we believe that we must learn from what happened in georgia by trying to build a constructive and balanced relationship with russia, by trying to build a long-term strategic partnership with that country. the conflict with georgia, far from taking us away from this objective, must on the contrary strengthen it in the context, here too, of the identity of the european union in relation to other partners who may not always have the same interests as ours in relations with russia.
i would like to begin by quoting the words of the president-in-office, mr sarkozy, who said this morning that the european union cannot be an accomplice to a new cold war and cannot irresponsibly fuel an escalation of tension that would lead to a crisis with russia, which is indeed called upon to be a positive and constructive partner of the european union because of its strategic importance, its natural resources, its military or nuclear power, the level of trade we have with russia, or simply because it is the european union's main energy supplier, as the commissioner reminded us. but, mr president, we are not just an economic and trade union, we are a union of values. and we can't apply values to the letter based on who's more powerful or who's more important. i believe that values such as freedom, respect for democratic values, human rights, the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states are values to be taken into account and we cannot look the other way and pretend that nothing has happened this summer, when there was an invasion and occupation, then by the force of a sovereign state. we must strengthen our neighbourhood policy and we must be consistent with the values we preach, mr president. there are many things that still have to happen: the evaluation that the european commissioner is doing and her services in the commission, there are the geneva talks, we have the donor conference that will be held this week in brussels and i think they are important. i want to conclude, mr president, by saying, as i began, that the european union must speak with a strong voice. and we will not speak out loud - we will, on the contrary, show weakness - if at the next summit, to be held on 14 november in nice, the european union starts negotiations with a view to concluding an agreement or association with russia without this country fully complying with and respecting the agreements it signed with the european union on 12 august and 8 september last.
mr president, russia is a major global player, a permanent member of the security council, it has a huge nuclear arsenal, a vast territory and abundant natural resources, including gas and oil. their cooperation is necessary to address challenges such as the middle east peace process or the iranian nuclear issue, and to fight organised crime, terrorism, climate change or nuclear proliferation. i understand, therefore, that we should not isolate russia but try to engage in dialogue and cooperation with it. now, there is another, more ambitious, possible relationship plan. the russian federation is a european neighbour which, after abandoning a long period of political totalitarianism and economic centralism, has embarked in the past decade on the path of democracy, human rights and a private enterprise economy. with a russia consistent with these ideals, the european union's relationship should be deep, a relationship of genuine neighbours and partners based on common basic values. now, the crisis with georgia was very serious. for us, as members of the european union, the basic principles must be non-use of force, respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of states and good faith compliance with international agreements. russia's behaviour in the summer was not in line with these principles. it seems to me that the agreements of 12 august and 8 september have not been fully implemented by russia either, perhaps taking advantage of the ambiguities of those agreements. the geneva conference, on the other hand, is not starting off well either. if the russian authorities wish to build a relationship of genuine cooperation and trust with us, with the eu, their behaviour should not be that of the past few months. they must also be consistent with the principle of respect for human rights and the rule of law that president medvedev himself proclaimed at the beginning of his mandate. ladies and gentlemen, this is a crucial moment. we must be vigilant and try to convince russia that an intense relationship of mutual trust between genuine european partners and neighbours requires sharing basic principles and rules.
i would point out to my colleagues that when they speak at the speed of the last speaker, there is no interpretation because the interpreters cannot logically follow the pace of the speeches. the catch-the-eye shift is not a trick to intervene when you haven't had time. we shall submit the procedure to the bureau, because there are more and more of them and, of course, if there are 14 or 15 members who ask to speak on this occasion, there is no way to adjust it. in any case, you should know that if you speak too fast, you will be heard by yourself and your compatriots, because no interpretation can keep up with the pace you are imposing.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i must say that it is normal that we have heard different positions in this house, given the nature of the union. it was a very good debate, and i am glad of it, apart from mr batten's intervention, which shocked me personally. but other than that, the others were perfectly legitimate. i also thank mrs neyts and mr couteaux for their reading proposal, which will enable us to enrich our view of relations between napoleon and russia and, for benita and myself, to become better acquainted with those between austria and russia. the european union has a duty to ensure that the peace process is not disrupted by the military intervention of the united states. the second is that there has been a disproportionate reaction from russia, but as was stressed this morning, for there to be a reaction, there had to be action, even if it remains disproportionate. the third is that the european union wants an independent international inquiry into the origin and course of the conflict. on the extent of the russian withdrawal and the stability of the caucasus, i would also say that we must not pretend that nothing has happened. we were told: 'the presidency acts as if relations were normal'. no, i mean, things have been happening since august. two months ago we were facing an armed conflict, on 10 october we saw the russian withdrawal from the adjacent areas, it is a step as i said additional essential. this does not mean that russia has fulfilled all its obligations, we are fully aware of this - and i am responding in particular to those who have pointed out the problems in the algori region - but at this stage the main thing is to start a political process now, and that is the aim of the round of conferences that is beginning in geneva. the union's message is that there must be no more zones of influence on the continent. the european union and russia have a common neighbourhood, for the benefit of which we must cooperate, not clash. as regards the resumption of the negotiations on the partnership, i would say that the negotiation of the future agreement is postponed, not suspended, for the legal reasons which were also raised in the debate this morning and, as the european council said on 15 october, the continuation of the negotiations will take account of the assessment requested from the commission and the council. this is perfectly logical, as mrs neyts has also pointed out. i would point out that we must distinguish clearly between what is being taken over from the negotiations on the european union-russia summit on 14 november. the summit will take place, it is more necessary than ever, as this debate has shown. the summit is not intended as an exercise in negotiating the future partnership agreement. i would also like to return to what several speakers have said about the notion of interdependence. it is true that this interdependence must be conceived in a broad sense. it exists in all areas: it exists in the energy sector, that is obvious, and i would even say that for some member states of the union, it is a dependency which must be remedied by diversifying the sources of supply. we are also dependent on each other in the field of international security, and that is why the european union must not leave unanswered the proposals of russian president medvedev in favour of a new european security framework, even if the european union's view is not necessarily the same as that of russia. i would like to remind you, as some of you have done, of our attachment to the helsinki final act and the charter of paris, documents to which russia has subscribed, as mr onyszkiewicz rightly pointed out. in this context, as many of you have pointed out, a sober analysis of relations with russia is obviously necessary. there is no question of going back to the cold war, nor is there any question of compromising our values and principles. but to do that, we need more than ever to have a constructive dialogue with russia. i thank all those who have congratulated the french presidency of the european union on its action, especially mr wielowieyski and mr tannock. the french presidency has acted all the more effectively, and i would like to conclude by saying that it can count on the support of all the member states, the european commission and your assembly. the division of the european union would undoubtedly be the best way for russia to weaken the union. given the very strong polarization of the debate between those who have joined us most recently and the former members of the european union, it must be stressed that we need more than ever, and this debate shows, unity in dealing with the georgian crisis, that we need more than ever unity in dialogue with russia: unity of the european union in condemning the use of force by the parties and the violation of territorial integrity; the unity of the european union in action, i.e. the deployment of civilian observers on the ground; the european union is also united in defining its interests, particularly in the energy field and in the more general field of international security. it is on the basis of this unity that negotiations on a future agreement with russia will resume in due course.
member of the commission. − mr president, this was a very interesting debate but a debate that has shown that the reflections are quite different – there are different points of view and different aspects, and in a similar way we see some different aspects prevailing in the debate in the council. i absolutely agree with our council president and our friend that the most important thing is that we speak with one voice, and with a strong voice. this should be done at the next european summit meeting with russia. what are our interests? i think i made this quite clear in my first intervention. since we are so interdependent, there are all the important interests on the economic side and the energy side, but there are also interests on the world scene. these were mentioned – climate change, energy security, the question of how we can get a future agreement in copenhagen. what do we do on iran, on the middle east? there is a clear interest in all the different issues, and this is what i wanted to stress and reiterate. we will have a very important discussion at the next general affairs and external relations council on 10 november, and i hope that we will find the right understanding on pursuing negotiations for the new eu-russia agreement, because these have only been postponed. i think what our president said was very clear. i say this because i think this is the best possible way forward, but at the same time we also have to be firm. we have to treat russia as it is and not russia as we wish it to be. that is also clear. that means human rights dialogue as described today and speaking about all the differences. this is what we did at the last summits at which i personally was present. as regards all the questions that have been asked about the 8 000 troops, the european council has given a clear answer to that and has noted with satisfaction that russian troops have withdrawn from the zones adjacent to south ossetia and abkhazia as an essential additional step in the implementation of the agreements of 12 august and 8 september, as well as the launch of the geneva international discussions provided for by those agreements. i think geneva is the place to continue talks about the political solution. these started with a difficult moment, but the process is launched and now we want to go forward. that is my first point. secondly, russia will not be at the donors’ conference, to give you a clear answer, but i think the time will come when the question of damages might have to be brought to the fore, and an international investigation then held. this has already been discussed in the council, and the council was in favour of such an international discussion. let me now say a word on human rights. as i said before, there are a number of developments inside russia that give us cause for concern, notably the violent deaths of journalists, restrictions on ngos, the situation in the northern caucasus in general and in ingushetia in particular. we have also called for full investigations into cases such as the death of anna politkovskaya and the recent killing after police arrest of magomed yevloyev. the latest round of human rights consultations, as i said, takes place today and will certainly also provide an opportunity to clearly mention those concerns. we have also made clear to russia that it needs to cooperate fully with the council of europe and to ratify protocol 14 on the court of human rights and protocol 6 on the death penalty. concerning wto accession: we, the european union, remain a strong supporter of wto accession because we think this will create a level playing field, which is necessary for our economic community, and we believe it is in our interests as a major trading partner for russia to join a rules-based system. but it is also important from the perspective of further development of our bilateral relations. it is most important therefore that we continue to support this issue. we have to continue to engage openly with the russian side on this important process, but it is clear that we have to find timely solutions with them and for them. the question of energy security and clear energy was mentioned. let me just say that we also have an energy dialogue and an environmental dialogue and, therefore, the questions of energy efficiency, clear energy etc. have already been tackled at different g8 meetings and at our eu summits, and will certainly be one of the important themes in the run-up to copenhagen, where we also need russia’s cooperation. the commission has supported joint implementation projects under the kyoto protocol and is ready to do more, because we think this is a most important issue. concerning the european security architecture, i just wanted to clarify that president medvedev already mentioned this at the june eu-russia summit at khanty-mansiysk – not after the georgia crisis but before. i was there and know that very well, so i just wanted to mention it for the purpose of clarification. this is an old russian idea that has come to the fore again, and i think it interesting that president sarkozy has proposed to maybe speak about it at an osce summit in 2009. we are not yet there, but let me say that it is most important that the question of a security partnership be discussed, but always with regard to all existing security relationships. that is also a clear line that we have to draw. as a final remark, let me say that it is so important that we advance the question of frozen conflicts – that is clear – and i will propose a communication on the eastern partnership very soon, at the end of november/beginning of december. we have already discussed this in the council, and it will also have a very strong security component, but we also have other institutional mechanisms like the minsk group that should not, therefore, be excluded. my last words concern cluster bombs, because this was also mentioned. let me say that we also deeply regret that cluster bombs have been used on both sides, thus creating great obstacles for idps to return home. therefore, we want to engage with the international organisations working in that field in order to clear the affected areas, but also to see that these cluster bombs no longer exist in the future.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the council on democracy, human rights and the new eu-vietnam association and cooperation agreement by marco cappato, on behalf of the alde group (o-0095/2008 - b6-0473/2008), and the oral question to the commission on democracy, human rights and the new eu-vietnam association and cooperation agreement by marco pannella, on behalf of the alde group (o-0096/2008 - b6-0474/2008).
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mr cappato, i am pleased to meet you today. we are following very closely the human rights situation in vietnam and the presidency has recently had the opportunity to express once again its concern at the sentences handed down, in particular against two journalists who had written reports on corruption cases. the council and the commission hold a regular dialogue on human rights with vietnam, which takes place twice a year. the last meeting, held in hanoi on 10 june 2008, focused on the general human rights situation in vietnam, in particular freedom of expression, the situation of minorities and the application of the death penalty, as well as a list of individual cases. in addition to this dialogue, there are a number of more specific approaches to individual cases, where arrests or convictions appear to us to be contrary to respect for public freedoms and international commitments, in particular the international covenant on civil and political rights, which has been ratified by vietnam. we have also made our position very clear to the vietnamese authorities on the occasion of the european day against the death penalty on 10 october. they seemed receptive to our message and emphasized the reform of the penal code that is under way, which should reduce the number of crimes punishable by death. that's the least of it. ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the question of human rights is an important part of our relationship with vietnam. this is a sensitive issue. you mentioned, mr cappato, the situation of the christians in central vietnam, which we are particularly concerned about, and i thank you for mentioning it. i would like to remind you that the european union is the only one pursuing such a comprehensive and voluntary policy in this area, which sometimes attracts criticism from our partner. but i want to be clear, we will continue this policy with determination. i now turn to the future partnership and cooperation agreement, which is under discussion. a new session is currently under way in hanoi and will run until 22 october. as with any agreement concluded by the european union with a third country, this agreement must include a very important clause on human rights. this clause will be an essential part of the future agreement, which may be suspended or even terminated if one of the parties does not respect it. at this stage of the negotiations, vietnam has not called into question the principle of such a clause. that's the least of it. this is a positive sign from vietnam and a concrete commitment by vietnam to respect human rights. the european union will thus have a powerful legal instrument to guarantee respect for human rights once the agreement is ratified. ladies and gentlemen, mr cappato, we agree with you that the human rights situation in vietnam must be improved. we believe that the actions we have been taking for many years are contributing to this, but beyond that, we believe that the conclusion of a future partnership and cooperation agreement will enable us, in this case as in others, through the human rights clause, to offer the best possible framework for dealing with this issue with vietnam and, of course, your assembly will be kept fully informed of the progress of the negotiations which, i would remind you, are under way.
member of the commission. - mr president, i apologize for the inconvenience caused by having listened to some members earlier.
commissioner, it is not your fault that some of my colleagues, who are not very relevant, have come to distract you in disregard of the colleague who is speaking at the moment. so you are sorry, and it is the members who must take care that when someone else is talking about us, they should not interrupt the president of the council or the person who is speaking on behalf of the commission. you go on, please.
president of the council. - i thank mr aylward, mr allister and mrs mcguinness for their questions. we are aiming to get this sensitive subject to second reading before the end of the year and to have it formally adopted by the european parliament in the december plenary. there will be a trilogue between the commission, the council and parliament to bring together the different views that have been expressed and, in that context, it would seem to me very logical, indeed, that impact studies should be carried out to see the impact of these regulations, both on production methods and on consumer protection. i have no doubt that they will help us to better assess the impact of these directives.
president of the council. - mr president, in reply to mr ó neachtain, since the adoption of the first research framework programme, a number of measures have been taken by the council to improve access to information for businesses. these measures should enable companies to be fully informed of the procedures for obtaining funding under the european framework programmes for research and development. for example, there is a website, cordis, which is a type of electronic tool created to facilitate the proposal of european research and technological development projects. businesses can access all the necessary information on european programmes and on the main national and regional actors in the different member states. this site provides a practical guide to sources of funding for research and innovation. there is also a network of national contact points which has been set up to provide better access to information for businesses and this information network is supported under the seventh research and development programme and under the competitiveness and innovation framework programme. the network therefore aims to provide the most personalised and decentralised information possible by linking up different institutions, whether national ministries, universities, research centres or private consultancy firms. finally, we have published guidelines for the use of funds from the seventh research framework programme and for the use of the structural funds which can be used in the field of research. these guidelines also provide essential information for businesses and we also know that it is through this information and the multiplication of sources of information that the competitiveness of our businesses is at stake in relation to the instruments implemented by the european union.
mr president, in both the seventh framework programme and the competitiveness and innovation programme one of our objectives was to promote the participation of small and mediumsized enterprises. two years after the adoption of these programmes, can the council say whether the participation of small and mediumsized enterprises in the member states is improving compared, for example, to previous editions of the framework programmes?
president of the council. - firstly, in reply to mr crowley, i do believe that the presidency's ambition is really to ensure that there is a coordination centre which is as operational as possible. that is what we wish. the problem is that here we have to strike a balance between those who want more coordination, as the presidency does, and those member states which are more committed, also in this area, to subsidiarity. but, finally, it is very clear that the presidency will work, within the council, towards greater coordination and - i answer mr rack - also more visible, because - mr rack is right - the union must be made visible. as regards the european solidarity fund, in reply to mr allister, i have noted the attention that should be paid to northern ireland in relation to a number of natural disasters. i am not aware of any discrimination against him, but i will, of course, work with the council to ensure that the solidarity fund is used as quickly and as equally as possible, depending on the regions, both at the level of the european union and at the level of the member states.
president of the council. - to reply to mr ryan, as you know, the cotonou agreement of 23 june 2000 introduces a new partnership between the european union and the 78 acp countries. these new agreements should promote a comprehensive approach to the relationship between the union and these countries. it is both a trade approach on goods and services, accompanying measures, measures to promote regional integration, the fact that these trade measures are in accordance with the rules of the world trade organization. there were interim agreements initialled at the end of 2007, which, as the council noted in its conclusions of may 2008, eliminated the risk of trade disruption, which was a major concern. but it is clear that the process of negotiating comprehensive regional economic partnership agreements (rpas) is at the top of the council's priorities. the council adopted a new set of conclusions on epas - the fourth since 2006 - recalling that these wto-compatible agreements were intended to support development. so there is still a community of views within the council on this important issue and a shared desire to reach comprehensive regional economic partnership agreements that will bring about sustainable economic development for the acp countries. and food security is at the heart of the thinking which is being carried out jointly according to the information received from the committee in charge of the negotiations. there is steady progress at regional level and our objective remains to conclude these comprehensive regional agreements as soon as possible. as regards fisheries partnership agreements, i would like to point out that following the council conclusions of july 2004, the community has set up a new type of bilateral agreement. what is emphasized to me is that, on the one hand, the allocation of fishing opportunities to community vessels must be based on transparent scientific advice, and, on the other hand, that part of the community's financial contribution set out in the so-called sectoral support agreements is aimed at developing the fishing sector of the partner coastal state in such a way as to establish responsible and sustainable fishing. finally, we must remember that we need interim agreements, but above all we must move as quickly as possible towards the conclusion of comprehensive economic partnership agreements, which is what all the members of the council are working towards.
mr president, i am referring to the same question as mrs doyle, but i want to put it in a slightly different way. in particular, the management of the sahara fishery was transferred to morocco some twenty years ago. there was no pressure there. the european union has been fishing in this area to a minimum, but there has been a problem of mismanagement of the fishery. the question i put to you is: what measures can we take to help countries with fisheries to establish effective controls? because it is not enough simply not to sign fisheries agreements. if there is no effective control of fishing areas, we are in trouble. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not affected by the current crisis.
president of the council. - i believe that as far as transparency is concerned, these agreements must be made as transparent as possible. i have not had any comments on the lack of transparency. the point to be borne in mind is that we are in a transitional situation with these interim agreements which are not entirely satisfactory, but we could not do otherwise under the wto rules. secondly, you are right, mr president, that there is criticism coming from the countries which have to conclude this type of agreement. there is always criticism of the effectiveness of development aid. we are working with the commission to ensure that there is greater transparency in these aid and support mechanisms, that is clear. thirdly, we want to move towards global agreements involving all the stakeholders and also the representatives of civil society in the partner countries. fourthly, as regards fishing off the coast of west africa, i think mrs doyle is right. it is obvious that we must ensure that sustainable development is always possible and that we must not, at any cost, exert excessive pressure in the framework of these agreements, which remain bilateral. as you have said, mr president, we must maintain effective control measures for fisheries resources. it's hard to say. of course, account must also be taken of the state of economic development and thereby help these countries to integrate themselves more effectively into international trade areas.
president of the council. - mr president, in reply to mr medina ortega, the plane is still one of the safest means of transport at the moment, but it is true - i understand the feeling shared by all - that some accidents, especially the one that occurred this summer in spain, are a reminder of the quite dramatic consequences of these accidents. improving the safety of air passengers remains a top priority for the council. i would remind you that there was a regulation, adopted by parliament and the council, establishing a blacklist of airlines at risk. this regulation prevents aircraft considered unsafe from flying in the community. it is also an effective means of improving the application of international safety standards in countries where the commission considers that the minimum safety rules are not being respected. there's a regular update of this list that's being made. in this vital area of air safety, another important element is the establishment of the european aviation safety agency. its mission is to promote the highest possible level of safety and environmental protection in civil aviation and the community institutions have also dealt with cases of aircraft which were operated within the community by third-party carriers, i.e. outside the community, and community rules have been established with regard to licensing of crews, operation and safety standards. it is clear - and the honourable member is quite right - that these rules must be supplemented and strengthened and the commission must make proposals to us, i hope, as soon as possible. these proposals will be examined by the council and your assembly in the framework of the regulatory procedure which you are familiar with. we must also work with the international civil aviation organisation, which is of course a key partner in all this and the french presidency is very clearly keen to move forward on aviation safety. it has already begun to examine new proposals from the european commission, adopted last june, to establish community safety rules for airports, air traffic management and air navigation services.
i thank you very much, mr president-in-office, for your long answer. it's very thorough. it has simply been said, as a supplementary question, that the increase in accidents has to do with the airlines' efforts to compete with each other by offering cheap flights. it is very pleasing to consumers to pay less for flying, but i do not know whether there are any studies in the commission which establish a link between low-cost flights and the increase in the number of air incidents.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the ability to insist on an area where parliament initially rejected it, and of course also the european commission for insisting on the reintroduction of a text which is fundamental in that it uses an instrument which we have, namely the ability to promote exemplary public markets from local authorities, especially in an area such as public road transport with clean vehicles, which are crucial at the moment. i also wanted to welcome the ability to take a greater risk by speeding up the implementation which, i hope, as the pact or conciliation has gone, can be carried forward. i would also like to welcome the support and recognition of programmes such as civitas urbano or intelligent energy, which are the basis of this type of programme and which, we hope, will continue to receive support, as well as the recognition of the participation of all the actors and also the commitment that is being expressed for hydrogen. but on the other hand, as regards supply infrastructures, i regret that we have not been able to use an instrument specific to the transport sector which has been rejected by this parliament, such as the transeuropean energy networks, which we proposed at the time but which have not been adopted. we are talking about all the funds, we are talking about all the state aids, but we are not mentioning this fund or this programme for transeuropean energy networks, which have been somewhat delayed in recent years and which, however, would be very much needed right now for the supply of new alternative fuels, such as gas or hydrogen. i would therefore ask commissioner tajani if he could make a proposal to us in the future, at the time of the revision of this text or even before, to use the transeuropean energy networks as an instrument to ensure the supply of these new fuels in one of the areas where there is a greater shortage, namely the infrastructure needed for these new fuels.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i thank parliament for putting this oral question, because it makes it possible to clarify a matter and a subject which i consider important, because what concerns the right of passengers, the right to safety, understood in the sense of safety and security - to explain it in british english too - and also as regards the right of the passenger not to have to wait in long queues sometimes: we have all criticised - even when i was a member of parliament - a system of control which seemed outdated and not always very effective, trying to have a system of control which would allow the citizen to travel as easily and as comfortably as possible. and that's how we made public even a few weeks ago what items can be carried as hand luggage and what items can't be carried as hand luggage. the aim of the commission's action and that of the directorate-general for transport and energy is therefore to go in the direction of the citizen: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the subject of the proposal - i want to make this very clear and that is why i am glad that it can be discussed today - is not the commission's decision to include body scanners from 2010. there's obviously been a misunderstanding. the commission put a question to parliament: does the commission consider that the application of body scanners at airports should be discussed as part of a non-compulsory control system? that is the subject of the proposal and it is provided for in article 4 (2) of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing common rules for civil aviation security and the measure currently before the european parliament, under the committee procedure with scrutiny, is limited to providing for the possibility of using body scanners as a means of ensuring aviation security. the times. only if parliament is in favour, only if we have verified that these instruments are useful and not harmful, especially to the health of the citizens, then we can consider whether to initiate a choice that determines under what conditions these technologies can be used. the procedure. in accordance with the comitology procedure with scrutiny, i informed the chairman of the responsible parliamentary committee, the committee on transport, on 4 september. president costas replied to me on 26 september with a letter asking for further information, in particular on the use of body scanners, namely how the commission intended to use body scanners if a favourable opinion was given. in my reply to mr costa, dated 7 october, i raised a number of points. the first. the measure under consideration may examine the possibility of using body scanners as an additional option for passenger screening and not as an obligation. so, passengers could choose to go through the body scanner, if the body scanner was found to be satisfactory, or have a manual check as is the case today. i have said that certain aspects, first of all the impact on the health and in particular on the privacy of passengers, will have to be analysed in greater depth before any regulation on body scanners is enacted. in addition, that there will be involvement by the services of the european data protection supervisor - this was also stated in the letter sent on 7 october to president costa - who, among other things, has already been invited, together with national experts, sectoral experts, together with the parliamentarians of the libe and tran committees, to take part in the workshop to be organized on 6 november, in order to ensure transparency and as a prerequisite before any decision is taken, that is, a meeting to establish - a meeting that can also be repeated - whether there are risks to health, which is the issue that concerns me most. if these body scanners are harmful to the health of the citizen, who freely chooses to go through the body scanner. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are applied in the member states. how could it be used if parliament decided to give the go-ahead to the body scanner hypothesis? it would, in my view, only be applied as a non-compulsory instrument and of course an alternative to this measure should always be provided for and therefore guaranteed at airports. so not the only solution but one of the possibilities. second point: the images will not be stored but will be deleted immediately, that is, there should be a technical mechanism to prevent the image of the person who decides to go through the body scanner from being recorded and therefore would be immediately deleted and not recorded at all, that is, impossible to record. the other issue is the one that concerns the health issue that i consider a priority: during the workshop on day 6 we will ask all those responsible for aviation safety to also report to us, in the various countries of the union, any indications concerning the damage that body scanners can cause to the health of citizens: so, surveys by universities, surveys by the various ministries of health or the corresponding agencies, or a statistical examination by countries that already use body scanners, starting with the uk, to see if these risks are there. that said, i have not made any decision nor do i intend to force my hand on this subject at all. i am simply putting a question to parliament. do we want to examine this alternative, non-mandatory, airport control hypothesis or not? that's the point. if we are to examine this proposal, we must see whether it is feasible, that is, whether it is possible, first of all as regards health, and then we should set out some criteria, starting with respect for the rights of the individual. so it will be absolutely necessary to stipulate in any regulatory act that the controller must be far away, not able to see directly but must be in a private and closed place. that is, all the guarantees that must be given to prevent it from becoming an invasive tool, whereas it should only be a tool to make things easier for citizens and to give them more guarantees, because it is also true that, from the data we have, at airports where there is a body scanner system, most citizens choose, between the body scanner and another system, to be checked through the body scanner. these are some of the considerations that must be made. of course, we have the possibility of regulating, if parliament says yes to the body scanner hypothesis. then there is the possibility of further scrutiny by parliament. i have always said that i intend to involve parliament, also because of my long experience in this house. that is why i was so happy and so willing to come here today to discuss the question of body scanners. involve parliament and decide together. do we want community regulation if all the steps of the body scanner are overcome, or do we want to leave it to the individual member states to use the instrument? i believe that if we decide to examine the body scanner hypothesis, and if this hypothesis is viable, it would be more fair and more useful for european citizens to have a community regulation which, i believe, would better guarantee all citizens the freedom to make the choice to go through security checks through the body scanner system, which is an alternative system to another system, which would remain in all other airports, which is the manual control system. of course, i realize that any kind of control is invasive of the person. manual control, as far as i'm concerned, is perhaps more invasive than control through body scanners. everyone is free to make a choice. we don't live in an ideal world. unfortunately we have to face a series of emergencies, unfortunately we have to face the terrorism emergency, we have to face the crime emergency, we have to face the drug trafficking emergency, we have to face the mafia and camorra emergency, as far as the country i know best is concerned, and then unfortunately controls are needed. we have some repercussions, including on the individual, and we must ensure that the repercussions on the individual are reduced to a minimum, ensuring that there are no files, that there are no indications, that there are no violations of privacy and the fundamental rights of the human person. that is why i think it is right to debate this issue. i am naturally referring to the wishes of parliament after having tried to explain the reasons why i have brought this hypothesis to parliament's attention, which i hope will be addressed and discussed in the exclusive interest of the citizens.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make the necessary proposals to the council and parliament, and i hope that the council will take the initiative to make the necessary proposals to the commission. i am very grateful to you for the information you are giving the house in its entirety. in any case, i would like to criticise the fact that at this hour a resolution has already been passed which expires at 10 a.m. and this is not a system. i mean, neither, quite honestly. in the same vein, i would point out that, even if there is consensus, the comitology procedure, even with control, is in my view absolutely insufficient to deal with a sensitive subject such as the personal whole-body scanner. i think it is inexcusable to assess the impact on fundamental rights, that it is inexcusable to assess the impact on health beforehand and that the principle of proportionality between what is done and the benefit to be obtained is necessary. this house is frustrated by the issue of liquids, and this is coming from a person who advised spanish members of the european parliament not to vote against the rejection, because making concessions on the part of terrorism on the usefulness of a measure seemed too strong to us. it is true that we voted in favour of this and it is no less true than what you announce in your letter that even the new liquid controls being tested will not be able to control all the possible explosive liquids at all. in any case, the whole body scanner's 'even voluntary' nature seems to me to be completely inadequate. it is true that it is said to be voluntary and it is true that it can be produced in complementary terms in cases as is already used of drug trafficking cases where something is hidden in the body, but not as a substitute form of a completely reasonable control that can be highly useful and accepted by all. in any case, mr vice-president, we must put it to parliament, we must put it to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, we must preserve fundamental rights and we must preserve the dignity of the person. we will support any measure taken in the fight against terrorism, but we cannot present things in any way. i think that the honourable member will be very careful in this respect, as he has announced, to do so with all care and tact.
mr president, commissioner, we are not here tonight to discuss technical measures in transport, or whether one machine is more efficient or cheaper than another in safety control. we have opened this debate because we are talking about fundamental rights, the right to privacy and the possibility that the irresponsible, bureaucratic and uncontrolled installation of a machine could be a serious attack on the rights of passengers. we therefore demand that no decision be taken on this matter without first examining its impact; not without consulting the european data protection supervisor; not without having a legal framework in place which establishes who is authorized to see each of us naked and in what cases; not without confirming how it is actually guaranteed that in practice, at each airport, its use will be voluntary and free and not the imposition of the agents who are there at that moment. tell us who's going to be the custodian of those special images of ours. i myself participated in the spanish law on television cameras in public places; it became law in the spanish case. i defended the usefulness of the system, but with all the guarantees. these guarantees have not been given here and, as long as they are not given, to approve this by committee procedure, commissioner, is a pure abuse of power.
mr president, commissioner, as we say in spain, it rains on wet. until very recently, part of the safety regulations was secret. that secrecy, that opacity, has created serious damage to citizens, who did not know what to expect. we are now turning the tables again and doing so in a completely inappropriate way, because the house is not counted. but not only with the house, in plenary, but a public debate with the citizens must be opened once and for all so that they can express their views. we have indeed reached a red line, which is the line that can call into question the right to privacy, data protection and personal dignity. that is why this parliament is demanding that we, as representatives of the public, play a leading role and that we open this debate once and for all, because of course we must resolve all the issues that affect, as i say, this red line that cannot be crossed, which is the right to privacy, data protection and personal dignity. we question its effectiveness, its necessity and its proportionality: we therefore believe that this measure must be debated in parliament in a procedural way - not as it has been done - and, of course, by opening this public debate to the citizens who are, after all, the ones who will be subjected to all the checks - as they are already doing - at all the airports in the european union.
mr president, the use of body scanners at airports is a sensitive issue that directly affects the security and privacy of citizens. our citizens are asking for transparency on a sensitive subject like this and we, in turn, are asking for transparency from the commission. it is not a purely technical matter which can be resolved by the comitology procedure. if it were, it would lack legitimacy and democratic control. citizens should be fully informed of measures which directly affect them. we cannot allow the opacity of the latest airport security measures to re-emerge. obviously, in this house we are in favour of measures to ensure greater safety when we travel and to speed up checks at airports. but above all, we are in favour of protecting our health and our privacy. we advocate for technology that respects health and privacy and doesn't cause more discomfort than it's intended to avoid. as you have said, therefore, it is necessary to carry out medical and scientific studies beforehand on the direct consequences of millimetre waves on the health of passengers and, in particular, on the most vulnerable people: pregnant women, children, the sick, the elderly and the disabled. as regards the production and processing of images, what does the commission propose to ensure confidentiality and privacy? it is essential, as you have said, that the images be deleted immediately and that there be no possibility of printing, archiving or transmitting them. mr. tajani, will passengers be able to opt-in or refuse to go through the scanners? it's not the same thing. are there specific training measures for the security staff who will be controlling this new technology? has the cost/benefit and proportionality of a technology that would be applied optionally been assessed? commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the objective is clear. we must ensure that information reaches the citizens and that all measures relating to aviation safety respect fundamental rights and are applied equally at all airports. the use of this new technology cannot be a back-and-forth approach to greater 'termino' security at the expense of fundamental rights. it's a matter of balance.
mr president, in the committee on transport of this parliament we are in favour - and we have said this on several occasions - of maximum safety with the minimum inconvenience to passengers and travellers. we therefore agree in principle to reduce these inconveniences for passengers, while maintaining maximum control and safety. in the case of liquids, parliament has already proposed the alternative of scanners precisely to avoid all difficulties, and it is true that technical advances should facilitate this approach. in the present case - the case of body scanners - it is true that at some point one might think that body scans can be more discretionary and that a machine might facilitate and precisely avoid exceptional situations in which not only a superficial body scan is worthwhile. however, i am in full agreement with the transport committee's view that all precautions must be taken, that travellers and european citizens must be fully assured of the application of the directive - if that is the case - and that the current studies and tests - which are merely studies and tests - must lead to positive conclusions. they must be absolutely safe for health, not infringe on the privacy of individuals, not humiliate them, and data and images must be subject to data protection.
i am speaking on behalf of the group of the european people's party. i would like to congratulate the commission and mrs grossetête on their work and to speak about subsidiarity. i think i have criticised the european union on this front many times, as in the case of the services directive, for example, or in the case of the current pro-liberalisation case against pharmacies, where the european commission enters into areas which are genuinely subsidiary and which have been built for a particular society and with which society is happy; in other words, the european union's meddling can spoil what works, as in the case of pharmacies. but in this case i think we should applaud this report, because it is the only way to control quality and ensure good health. why would you do that? because if there is no single control of all medicines, when there are many open windows and doors, we are prepared and the system is much more fragile for intrusions with harmful products, unauthorized products, and even in the case of active ingredients, on which there was a resolution last year, tabled by mrs sartori and myself, which i see has been taken up by the commission. i understand that this is a good thing, and i believe that it also saves a great deal of bureaucracy and is a guarantee for society. i also welcome the emphasis on information, because it is clear that in a society with the mobility of patients that we have, a society that travels, that moves, in which there is a very large elderly population that is living in other countries than their own, it is very interesting that doctors and all health personnel can have control and know what is in front of them with the same information and the same criteria.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, mr manders, and the shadows, in particular mr harbour and ms mccarthy, for their political commitment and support, and the teams of the imco secretariat and dg sanco for their very close cooperation. this will lead us, hopefully, to conclude at first reading. i really appreciate your tremendous efforts and i am grateful that we finally reached an agreement. for the same reasons, i would also thank the french presidency. this proposal would bring about very significant improvements for consumers in the market for timeshare and similar holiday products. there is clearly an urgent need to revise the existing rules on timeshare. consumers are losing out by purchasing products which are economically similar to timeshare but which do not fall under the definition of the current directive. i am speaking here about products like discount holiday clubs, where consumers often have to pay a substantial amount upfront, ranging from eur6000 to eur20 000 for membership of a club, which will only give a right to a discount on future holidays. i am also referring to the resale and exchange of timeshare which are currently unregulated. it is my deep conviction that we need to work on the database site for complaints, and data on complaints show that consumers encounter significantly more problems with these unregulated products, in particular with the discount holiday clubs, compared to timeshare. there is, therefore, a compelling case for applying similar rules to these products in order to achieve more fairness in the holiday market. the proposal to be put to the vote today fills in the loopholes in the current legislation by extending the scope of the directive to cover not only timeshare but also long-term holiday products, resale and exchange of timeshare. with the new rules, traders marketing these products will have to provide a consumer with comprehensive pre-contractual information so that the consumer will be able to an informed choice. thanks to amendments from this house, which i wholeheartedly support, this information will have to be provided on a standardised information sheet, which will make it easier for consumers to assimilate the information. the standardised information sheet will also facilitate the life of traders, in particular since it will be available in all eu languages. consumers purchasing these products will also benefit from the right of withdrawal and a ban on advance payments, as is already the case for timeshare. it will also be clarified that withdrawal can be notified to the trader by letter, email, fax or other similar means. moreover, consumers purchasing long-term holiday products will be given additional protection. the total payment for membership will no longer be allowed upfront but must instead be divided into yearly instalments. the consumer will also have the right to terminate the contract before each yearly payment. the fully harmonised rules of the directive will be good for consumers. currently, consumers wishing to purchase a timeshare while on holiday in another country will do so on the basis of that country’s rules, which may not be as protective as the rules of his home country. with the new fully harmonised directive, consumers will know that the same consumer protection rules will apply regardless of whether they bought their timeshare holiday products in their home countries or while on holiday abroad.
the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights has adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to express my regret that the conference of presidents did not grant the committee on legal affairs the opportunity to cooperate more closely with the committee on the internal market and consumer protection in this report which we are discussing today. in my view, in the committee on legal affairs, i did not want to change the legal basis proposed by the european commission, nor to change the legal instrument. the priority objective has been to protect the consumer from the abuses committed by some of the so-called 'holiday clubs', without prejudicing the development of clean businesses and job-creating businesses, as is also the case with the so-called 'time-share' businesses. in my view, it is not enough to apply the guarantees of time-sharing to holiday clubs, but we must go further, since the legal nature of the two is intrinsically different. on the one hand, time-sharing implies a real right, whereas holiday clubs are simply a service contract. in reality, the consumer pays a sum of money in exchange for the promise, in the long term, of receiving tourist services. we cannot ignore the fact that most of the consumer complaints relate to the abuse of holiday clubs and not to the time-share known to everyone. as commissioner kuneva has mentioned, our aim, also in the committee on legal affairs, has been to regulate the opaque sectors and to establish a legal regime which allows honest entrepreneurs to develop their activities and consumers to benefit from them. i am convinced that this report and the measures proposed are moving in the right direction.
in writing. mr president, i am very pleased to express my approval of this report and to thank the rapporteur, mr manders, my colleague, mr harbour, for their excellent work, and the alternative rapporteurs. it was a great team effort. this package of measures is the result of the great efforts made by the commission, parliament and the council. the spanish delegation has always advocated a position of understanding, clarity and legal certainty, all of which is based on full harmonization to ensure the best possible protection for consumers. we wanted clear rules and better regulation of the market. on the one hand, for entrepreneurs, so that they can carry out their task with a high level of quality and safety, and on the other hand, for consumers, so that they feel confident when entering that market, have the necessary information before signing any contract, obtain the necessary guarantees and thus strengthen their rights. good regulation encourages market activity and benefits consumers and businesses. that is what we were looking for and that is what we have achieved with this agreement.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
thank you very much, mr. mitchell. your comments and complaint will be duly dealt with at the next meeting of parliament's bureau.
mr posselt, your remark will also be forwarded to the bureau. (laughter)
no, there has been no request for a separate vote on that paragraph.
we take your complaint, mrs. goudin. after the vote:
very well, mr martin. you are in everything, mr. martin.
i declare the vote adjourned for the formal sitting.
ladies and gentlemen, after the alliance of civilizations, we went down to earth and we kept voting.
mrs. in 't veld, i have a question. i understand that if your oral amendment is accepted, it will replace the three-part vote. that is, if your oral amendment is accepted, we can vote on the whole paragraph. is that it?
mr president, with all due respect, i would like to make the following comment. after the very correct and sensible presentation on the alliance of civilizations by the high representative of the secretary-general of the united nations, you have resumed the session with these words - perhaps you have them more at hand - which i more or less reproduce verbatim: 'well, and now, after the alliance of civilizations, let us return to earth'. i am sorry to say, mr president, that this is a comment which is far from parliamentary correctness and which is not appropriate for the exercise of the presidency.
you know that it is within the powers of the presidency - and my colleagues the vice-presidents often do - to make innocuous comments on incidents in the house, and in these comments we must look at the content and the intention. i can assure you, my dear colleague, that my intention was absolutely positive. in any event, if you or any other colleague have found in this innocent and benevolent commentary something that might disturb you, i shall withdraw it for you.
opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. - madam president, first of all i should like to congratulate the committee on budgets on supporting our amendments. for the sake of time, i shall briefly touch on two points. on the one hand, the classic amendment on frontex's budget. as you all know, in the absence of initiative from the commission but above all in the absence of consistency from the council, parliament has had to define the scope of frontex through the budgetary procedure. this year we have reached an agreement to increase its endowment by ten million and to try to make the operations permanent. this requires not only budgetary appropriations but, above all, mr president of the council, that the member states fulfil their obligations in this respect. another point is the approval of a pilot loan for the integration of the roma people. the european conference organized this month by the commission cannot be the end but the beginning of a coherent policy on the integration of the roma people into our european society.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, mr jutta and mr janusz, ladies and gentlemen, what is the ultimate objective, the raison d'être, of a union budget in a year of financial and real crisis? the first objective is that this budget should not be an additional burden on national treasuries, that is to say, that it should not be redundant expenditure, that it should go only to where the member states cannot and should not go. the second objective is that it should be a budget which provides added value. the programmes approved for funding must be sufficiently endorsed by the political authority - the council and the european parliament - and technically endorsed by the executive authority, which is the commission. the commission's role has never been more important than in this year of deep crisis. their responsibility is greater than ever, because we are not in a position to waste the maximum return of every euro invested by european taxpayers. and thirdly, at a time when the liberal is becoming social democratic and the social democrat is becoming liberal, the union's budget must be effective and even counter-cyclical. a study led by spanish economist rafael flores shows that the public expenditure with the greatest impact on public investment and employment is that on transport and communications infrastructure, and what works for my country should work for all of europe. the cohesion and structural funds are the key community element in relaunching european infrastructure and, consequently, employment. that is why my group is in favour of, among other things, more money for the transeuropean networks, which the council has irresponsibly neglected; it is in favour of more money for the energy networks in particular, and it is also in favour of more money for payment appropriations under the convergence heading.
mr president, we have a draft budget for 2009 which seeks to strengthen the social and environmental dimension of the european union as an area of peace and progress. i would like to draw particular attention to two parliamentary proposals which have been incorporated into the debate because of their symbolic value. the first concerns resources for european space research, focusing on global environmental surveillance, public safety and the international year of astronomy. the second is the pilot project on social tourism, which seeks to find ways to meet the demands of new forms of leisure. we regret that the draft budget does not include a special fund for rehabilitation and reconstruction in countries affected by hurricanes and typhoons in the caribbean and asia. we hope that the current economic and financial crisis in the world will not have a negative impact on the budget of the european union.
madam president, the debate we are holding today is a debate to commemorate (which means to keep alive in the memory) the sacrifice of so many millions of people who were victims of an unprecedented demographic catastrophe in peacetime due to stalin's policies. i believe, madam president, that the famine experienced by these people was a direct attack on the peasant social class of ukraine, which was resolutely opposed to collectivization. as has been pointed out in this house, particularly by mr bielan, this was deliberate, because the 1932 harvest, although actually below average, would have been sufficient to feed the entire population, as shown by the fact that the soviet union exported over a million tonnes of grain to western europe that year. and the result, as has been said by all the speakers in this debate, is between six and eight million people in the whole of the soviet union, between five and six million in the ukraine. the fact is that the deaths of these people have not only been a serious matter, but also the silence and the concealment that followed. that is why i think, madam president, that it is important for the european parliament, as other institutions - the united nations and the osce parliamentary assembly - have done, to raise its voice today to pay tribute and to keep alive in the memory of our brain computer the sacrifice of all those who were victims of a totalitarian and criminal ideology. however, i believe, madam president, and it has also been said here in this house, that the most important thing is to look to the future and that children born today in ukraine, that great country, should have to turn to the library and the history books to learn about the horror experienced by previous generations in the holodomor.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague mr stockmann on the excellent report and, above all, on the patience and tenacity with which he has carried it through. it is a text with which we are growing in the creation of a common airspace and preparing, among other things through transparency and non-discrimination, what will now be the great leap forward of the single european sky. the common system for charging user charges thus maintains the conditions necessary for fair and transparent competition and also provides for future features by taking account of environmental criteria for modulation and also by exempting charges for assistance to disabled passengers. we're also, let's say, making a future in that. i should also like to point out that the need to avoid overloading small airports has been addressed by modulating the capacity to five million passengers per year. finally, we think it is good to recognise the single management of airport networks, which have shown that they work well - as is the case with aena in my country - and also to take into account that, in addition to the independent authority and supervision, there are other formats - say - of control and compulsory charging with legislative control - which is also the case in my country - and i am therefore grateful that this has been taken into account when they were put forward. and i also congratulate the rapporteur on setting specific deadlines for the publication of decisions, which avoids legal uncertainty and gives users assurances as to when these decisions will be raised. i would also like to see parliamentary control taken into account in these deadlines and decisions.
madam president, i would also like to congratulate mrs zdravkova on her excellent report and congratulate all of us and also - of course - the ombudsman, mr diamandouros, on recognising the progress and improvements that have been made in his work. i would like to highlight other aspects of good practice in european transport in relation to the improvement of information on passenger rights and also the repeal of a decision challenged by the european aviation safety agency. as regards the inquiries of its own motion, i think they are absolutely positive in that they have focused on the issue of commission payments and also on non-discrimination against disabled people. we would like this collection of good know-how, good practice and good administration to be a special part of the campaign that parliament is supporting. i would also like to make a special mention - to conclude - of the meeting of the sixth seminar of the european network of ombudsmen, where for the first time the participation of ombudsmen from the regions was introduced. i would also like to mention the excellent statement of the european network of ombudsmen, which he used as an adviser to the ombudsman, mr diamandouros, and to us.
mr president, yes, i am referring to the first part of paragraph 4, in the vote by parts. i would like to see the first part of the original paragraph voted on again.
the author. - mr president, i would like to emphasise some of the points that have already been made about the situation in the democratic republic of congo. the first is obvious. the cause of the conflict we're talking about is multidimensional. we are talking about a problem of access to resources; we are also talking about the impunity with which these resources are exploited, but also about the impunity with which certain actors 'roam' around the area and commit atrocities without being prosecuted by either local actors or international forces, and, thirdly, about the impunity that the persistent presence of international weapons that continuously arrive in the region brings with it. these three elements - the linking of these three aspects - seem to me to be fundamental because they point, first of all, to the need for a thorough review of the united nations presence in the territory. secondly, we must look very specifically at the case of violence against women and sexual violence against women, which we have already dealt with in this house on previous occasions, and this is a new opportunity to recall that both the united nations and the european union should demand that rape and, above all, the use of torture and abuse of women as a sexual weapon be considered a war crime. it is something we have been asking for and demanding for a long time in all areas where it is needed. i think it is also necessary to remember the third aspect: that all this has to do with one of the most important sources of wealth in the world, which is diamonds. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. let me remind you that next week at the united nations a debate will begin on the adoption of an international treaty on arms exports. i think this is a golden opportunity to remind us that this is precisely what is needed in contexts such as that of the democratic republic of congo.
the author. - mr president, tomorrow's asem meeting in beijing is a great opportunity for the heads of state and government of the european union present to take the opportunity to bring the worrying human rights situation in burma back to the table. in particular, as amnesty international has already requested in a letter, it would be very appropriate for the president-in-office of the council, mr sarkozy, as co-president of the eurasian meeting, to point out the great concern we have in europe regarding the more than 2100 political prisoners and, moreover, to call for their immediate release. another source of concern is the ongoing military offensive against the karen population in the east of the country, where the largest military operation in a decade has taken place, which is directly targeting the civilian population and has in fact resulted in the internal displacement of 150 000 people. as early as june 2006, amnesty international established that such practices were, in fact, crimes against humanity. on the other hand, as requested by the burma campaign for peace and burman campaign international among others, the visit planned by the un secretary-general in december will be the first time that substantive political problems will be discussed, after the secretary-general has recently visited the country on two occasions following the passage of cyclone nargis this year. the fact is that we have certainly never before had, apparently, such a broad consensus among europeans and asians to join forces and put pressure on the regime to release all political prisoners, so the summit, which starts tomorrow, is of vital importance. it is also regrettable that the united nations has ignored - and in some cases even believed - the regime's lies for a long time, as evidenced by the fact that after 37 visits by the un envoy, no significant progress has been observed. i therefore join the calls for both european heads of state and government - including, of course, the spanish prime minister, josé luis rodríguez zapatero - and the united nations to show that they are genuinely in favour of change in burma. to do this, it is essential that they demand the immediate release of the detainees. it is therefore important that we do not miss the opportunity which we have from tomorrow and that the heads of state and government respond in line with the expectations that have been created. i trust that these heads of state and government - and especially president sarkozy - will be aware of the circumstances, will be aware of the gravity of the situation and will act accordingly. if the european union really wants to be a credible political actor, with a foreign policy based on the defence and promotion of human rights and not, as is often the case, at the service of the economic interests of large companies such as total or chevron, now is the time to demonstrate that and it is in situations like these that it is possible to gain that credibility. many lives depend on these kinds of gestures.
mr president, last night french and spanish security forces, in a joint operation, absolutely clean and on french territory, arrested one of the main leaders of eta, txeroki, perhaps the most bloodthirsty, wanted for more than six years for several murders and attacks. in the prudent way in which these issues must be tackled, i think it is very good news and i am sure that the house shares our satisfaction, which compensates for the displeasure we have had at other times when we have had to speak about the crimes of the organisation. this is a very severe blow to the terrorist organization and we should congratulate the security forces, the governments and the people of france and spain on the success of the operation and we should also congratulate all of us on the example that international cooperation is setting as an essential instrument of counter-terrorism resistance. finally, mr president, i would say that terrorists must know that this is the end of them: they will be arrested and brought to justice and will pay for their crimes with years in prison, if necessary, for the crimes for which they have been found guilty.
mr president, commissioner almunia, ladies and gentlemen, economic and monetary union has introduced a new dimension into the process of european integration. its governance is based on two asymmetrical pillars: monetary union, which is federal in nature, and economic coordination, which is intergovernmental in nature. both must provide the stability, growth, equity and sustainability that our citizens demand. the ten years of the euro zone have been a positive experience, as evidenced by the fact that the euro is increasingly seen as a safe haven and a safe zone for the member states. but we must go further and enrich its operation. it is necessary to face the challenges of globalisation, climate change or ageing, but also the financial crisis we have now which demands improvements in our functioning and also to face the recession, the face of which we are seeing for the first time. the euro cannot simply be an anchor of security, it must also be an engine that can drive growth, and the euro area and economic and monetary union must be able to respond to these challenges. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on the excellent work they have done and in particular to thank them for incorporating two of my proposals. the first is to introduce into the definition of monetary policy, alongside the economic and monetary pillars, the need for a financial analysis for its correct definition. the transition of monetary policy, the development of credit and financial assets, the characteristics of new products and the concentration of risk and liquidity must be taken into account in the definition of our monetary policy. secondly, account must be taken of the differences between the member states, which will increase with the enlargement process. the 'one size fits all' monetary policy often does not correspond to the situation in individual countries. it would therefore be appropriate to modulate it by introducing financial facilities for those countries where the 'one size fits all' policy may have contractive effects, since expansionary effects can easily be corrected through fiscal policy.
mr president, commissioner, i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work. it is a very relevant report, because the wage gap in the european union is a reality that should be eliminated. it is unacceptable that women earn 15% less than men and that in the private sector this difference is as high as 25%. it is a difficult pay gap to combat because it is the result of indirect discrimination: the most precarious work and the majority of parttime work is done by women. what is the wise course? basically, to promote equal opportunities policies aimed at achieving a balance between work and family life and policies aimed at reducing and improving the remuneration of the lowest-paid jobs, which are predominantly female. for this reason, among the recommendations in the report - all of them very interesting - i would highlight the one to amend the directive on the application of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment in employment including references to the wage gap and also the one to amend the framework agreement on parttime work which is where the differences are greatest.
mr president, two months ago, in this very place, we discussed the annual report on equality between men and women, and one of the most worrying elements was the debate we are having today: the pay gap between men and women. it is worrying that since 2003 we have not been able to reduce this 15% wage gap. this means that a woman has to work fifty-two more days a year than a man to receive the same salary. we are talking about a totally intolerable issue in the european union and that is why, without a doubt, it is necessary to put in place more legislative measures, more concerted measures with employers to eliminate this wage gap that we are facing at the moment. but, moreover, we have in our hands a rather questionable future in this respect. next month we will be discussing the working time directive, which can also be a very worrying element for women's work-life balance, which is undoubtedly a really vulnerable aspect in terms of the work factor. so let us also be on the watch.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the european union solidarity fund: obstacles to its reform, by gerardo galeote quecedo, on behalf of the committee on regional development (o-0092/2008 - b6-0472/2008).
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. this fund soon proved ineffective in meeting the objectives for which it was created and, therefore, as early as 2005, the european commission presented the proposal for reform of the regulation governing this solidarity instrument, with the aim of improving not only its operational capacity but also its access and coverage in the event of a major natural disaster. the european parliament, as is perfectly clear, worked intensively and promptly on this dossier, so that, as early as may 2006, our institution had completed its first reading. at that time we all thought, we were convinced that the council, since it is a codecision regulation, would do the same, but as everyone knows, it was not so. contrary to expectations, the council has paralysed the process by its inaction. the european union has suffered during this period, in addition to serious floods, serious fires which in some cases have left deadly victims, and severe droughts, and yet the council remained unmoved. the revision of the regulation to improve it is still on the table, despite the calls from the european institutions and the social forces. today we would like to make a further appeal to the council, reminding it that the reform of the regulation in question does not involve an additional euro of expenditure for the community budget, that our demands have no financial consequences, that they are based solely on improving the shortcomings in the functioning that have become apparent since this instrument of solidarity was created. we simply want to make it more operational, to make it more efficient, while always respecting the principle of subsidiarity. we find that, as this instrument is designed today, access to it is very difficult, very restrictive and not very agile, as we have unfortunately been able to see over the course of its almost seven years of operation. i would therefore like to ask whether there is any explanation for the inability of the delegations in the council to reach a common position, if anyone could tell us who and on what grounds they are blocking the reform of the regulation. we would like the european commission to push forward the reform of this fund, to give us an update on what actions it is planning to take, to tell us clearly what possible alternatives it is considering and which could help to unblock this dossier. and of course we would like the commission to explain to us what the alternatives are and what their time horizon is, if it has any. i think it is appropriate to remind those present, and in particular the french presidency, that this instrument was created with a laudable objective: to demonstrate the union's solidarity with its citizens in a timely, sufficient and visible manner. and finally, mr president, i would like to make a second appeal, specifically to the french presidency, on a matter closely linked to the one we are now dealing with: the creation of a european civil protection force which, as everyone knows, was presented to the european council in 2006 by minister michel barnier, a former commissioner. i'm finished. the fund was created primarily as a symbolic expression of solidarity between the european union and its citizens. a final request: if we succeed, after so much time and effort, in making it minimally operational, may our first remembrance, our first action, be directed to the deadly victims of these catastrophes in the european union.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, commissioner, as my colleagues have said, in 2006 we debated in this house the amendment of the solidarity fund regulation in order to adapt it to the need to serve as a rapid and effective response instrument. but, to this day, we still have the matter on the table. it was not easy to reach such a broad agreement in this house, since there was a great deal of opposition to the amendment of this regulation, both from the various political groups and from the interests of certain countries. but i think that we all made a considerable effort to reach agreement and to make it possible to amend this regulation. i think this parliament has set an example of what we all have to strive for at the moment: to seek a consensus to amend the rules of procedure. the european commission must make every effort to make this agreement possible and to achieve the objective we have set ourselves. i welcome the commissioner's reply today, which tells us that a study is going to be carried out to determine what are the objectives which we must now set for the amendment of the regulation in order also to try to get the future agreement from the council. we must make it possible, by amending the regulation, to respond quickly and effectively to disasters which member states cannot cope with on their own, extending the current eligibility to industrial disasters, terrorist attacks and public health emergencies, without forgetting such an important issue as severe droughts, which are becoming more frequent, especially in certain areas of the mediterranean. we must also be firm in our approach to lowering the damage threshold from 3 000 to 1 000 million in order to be able to mobilise the fund, without forgetting the regional component. this instrument must provide financial support in the event of extreme drought, fires and floods, without forgetting, in any case, the victims who need immediate help and assistance. the solidarity fund is a political instrument for resolving difficulties, and i therefore reiterate the need to make every effort to bring this fundamental issue forward, but to do so with the essential changes that are appropriate to today's reality.
member of the commission. − mr president, i have three explanations to present to you. this is not an emergency aid solidarity fund; it is a fund which is based on reimbursement of specific costs for emergency operations after disasters, allowing for a return to normal living conditions. the commission proposes; parliament and the council decide. secondly, in the regulation amendment we propose to enlarge the scope, we propose to lower the threshold and we propose to change the procedure allowing specifically for the advance payment. thirdly, the list of my interventions, and those of president barroso, with seven presidencies is a very long list; it takes practically two pages, the list of all the meetings and letters. none of the seven presidencies, although some of them initially presented positive attitudes, managed to get agreement in the council for approving the amendment to the regulation. i refused to withdraw the proposal from the council, hoping that with the new report that we will produce and adopt as the commission early next year we will have a new debate which will allow us to go on with amendments; maybe we are now also having new ideas, maybe a broader scope of amendments to this fund. in that regard, i hope very much that you will be present and participate in this debate and will support the proposal of the commission. briefly on another issue, prevention, we will adopt at the end of this year a communication ‘towards a comprehensive new approach to preventing disasters’. we have already completed the two exploratory studies, we have also completed consultations and the impact assessment is currently in preparation. also, cohesion policy – somebody, i think mr janowski, suggested involving cohesion policy in prevention actions – has as one of its priorities precisely preventive actions, especially in the area of environment. that is all, mr president. i hope that we will continue to work together with a view to getting this fund amended in such a way that it will be more important and more responsive to the needs of european citizens.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by mrs iliana malinova iotova, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on consumer protection: improving consumer education and awareness in credit and finance (2007/2288 (ini)) (a6-0393/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, this is a very timely report. it highlights many of the challenges which european consumers are facing in the context of the current financial crisis. that is why i give many thanks to mrs iotova for the outstanding work. the commission recognised the importance of financial education for the proper functioning of the internal market in our communication which was adopted in december last year. consumers definitely have to be empowered to take responsible decisions regarding their personal finance, and only in this way will they be able to reap the tangible benefits that come from financial integration in the european union. education is the competence of the member states. the commission’s role in this regard is mainly supportive, but nevertheless important. the national level is the most appropriate for the delivery of consumer education programmes and it is also the most effective and efficient. member states have a key role to play, for example by adopting national financial education strategies based on public/private partnership. we believe that the commission’s role is to act as a promoter of financial education eu-wide, showing benefits, coordinating efforts, demonstrating best practice. in this regard we have implemented several practical initiatives and created the expert group on financial education, which held its first meeting in october, devoted to discussions on the national strategies for financial education. we have also been advancing the development of the dolcetta online tools for teachers to make it easier for them to incorporate financial topics into the existing curricula. soon we will be publishing the european database for financial education, an electronic library of schemes run by various types of providers. finally, the commission regularly offers its patronage to selected events giving visibility to financial education. we fully agree with the general thrust of this parliamentary report and the majority of its proposals. the issue of crucial importance is the education of children and young people, and the commission shares with parliament the conviction that financial literacy should be taught at school. we are ready and willing to assist member states in developing their basic educational programmes in the field of personal finances, and a similar concern applies to the idea of tasking the commission with running eu information and media campaigns on financial education. such awareness-raising campaigns should be tailored to the specific needs of the audience and are most efficient when run at the national or even local level. again we are ready to assist. i would like to conclude by thanking parliament for its good work on this file and look forward to continuing the dialogue between parliament and the commission on the important issues of consumer financial education.
this spot closes. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by anna hedh, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the consumer markets indicator chart (2008/2057 (ini)) (a6-0392/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, the scoreboard initiative came into existence less than a year ago and during that time the commission has greatly appreciated parliament’s interest and support. the scoreboard has been the subject of many debates in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and we have learnt a lot from these debates and from the suggestions made. thank you very much for all that, but especially thanks to ms anna hedh for the excellent report. let me reiterate briefly why the consumer market scoreboard is so important for all of us. if we are to deliver to consumers, we need to be more responsive to their expectations and better understand the problems they are facing in their day-to-day lives. to do so, we need an evidence base that shows how markets perform in terms of economic and social outcomes for consumers, and how consumers behave on the market. sound policy-making requires accurate data, and we fully share your view on this. the scoreboard brings together evidence to identify markets that risk not delivering well for consumers and therefore need further attention. it also allows progress in retail market integration to be tracked, and helps to benchmark the consumer environment in member states, particularly in terms of compliance with consumer legislation, enforcement, redress, and consumer empowerment. we share your views on which indicators to include in this scoreboard, and we believe that the establishment of a harmonised eu-wide database of consumer complaints will be an essential step forward. it will allow us to detect problems in consumer markets at an early stage and, if necessary, to take appropriate action. the commission firmly believes that it is important to include price data, since prices are one of consumers’ principal concerns. the current political and economic climate further reinforces the need for good price data. we need to send a clear signal to our consumers that we are keeping an eye on how prices compare across the internal market. the commission can assure you that it is fully aware of the complexity of this issue, and will of course interpret this data carefully and make sure the data are put in the right context. prices may diverge across the internal market for sound economic reasons, but also because of market malfunctioning, and our aim is to find ways to tell the difference. we share ms hedh’s view on the importance of close cooperation with member states. this year, the commission started to work together with national policy-makers, statistical offices, enforcement authorities and consumer organisations to further develop the scoreboard indicators, and we will continue with this cooperation in the coming years. ms hedh has stressed that we should make this scoreboard more accessible to a larger public and that we should raise awareness. the commission accepts this point, and will step up efforts to do so. i invite you to see the results in the second edition of the scoreboard. finally, what the commission wishes to take from ms hedh’s report – although i could quote many other points if i had more time – is the wish for more empowerment indicators such as literacy and skills. within the framework of eurostat’s revised european social survey programme, the commission plans to run a module on consumer empowerment through which it wants to measure consumer skills, consumer information and awareness of rights and assertiveness. this would allow us to start drawing up a statistical snapshot of europe’s citizens in their capacity as consumers. we see this as the main subject of the pilot project proposed by the parliament for 2009. let me conclude by again thanking ms hedh for the interest and support, not least in financial terms.
this spot closes. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the report by christian ehler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on 'supporting the early demonstration of sustainable electricity production from fossil fuels' (2008/2140 (ini)) (a6-0418/2008).
member of the commission. − mr president, i thank mr ehler very much for his report on the communication of the commission on supporting early demonstration of sustainable power generation from fossil fuels. we appreciate the general support in the report for our policy objectives and for the recognition of the important role ccs can play in combating climate change worldwide. the report also clearly recognises the urgent need for up to 12 large-scale demonstration projects to make ccs commercially viable by 2020. our communication has to be seen as a part of the complete and comprehensive climate and energy package which includes the ccs directive, which sets the legal framework for allowing operation of ccs technologies in europe, the emission trading system, which provides the economic and commercial framework for ccs, and the commission’s proposal that suggests that 20% of the auction revenues are earmarked by member states for investment in low-carbon technologies, such as ccs. no matter what the final decision is, the auctioning revenues will be one of the substantial financing sources for ccs demonstration projects. finally, our communication also suggests the creation at the beginning of 2009 of a european coordination structure to support ccs demonstration projects through knowledge-sharing, joint communication activities and other joint actions. i appreciate your general endorsement of the climate and energy package and especially the communication. however, the report also states that the efforts of the commission might not be sufficient to reach the aim stated by the council of having up to twelve demonstration projects. i understand this concern. to address the financing issue, an amendment to the ets proposal has been adopted by the committee on the environment proposing to use eur 500 million allowances from the new entrance reserve to finance ccs demonstration projects. the commission has sent a policy option paper to parliament in order to help build consensus in the council, too, to ensure sufficient financing of low-carbon technologies. in the report two other issues are also raised with which the commission cannot fully agree at this point in time. first, the report calls on the commission to produce a detailed assessment of the costs and the share of private and public funding of each of the twelve demonstration facilities. let me say in this context that the demonstration projects will only be identified after competitive tenders organised either at european or at member state level. cost assessments are currently underway but they can only provide rough cost estimates as each project is unique. secondly, it also suggests the use of resources from the risk-sharing finance facility to support ccs. as resources here have been fully committed, as you know, any change would require amendments to the seventh framework programme. so let me conclude by thanking you for the excellent work on the report, and i hope also that parliament will keep the overall direction and objectives of the report in the vote.
this spot closes. the vote will take place tomorrow at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
mr president, commissioner, we share the aims of this 'medical check-up', but not all the measures it proposes. the threat of new climate, financial, health risks, etc. indicates that the cap, far from being an obsolete policy, is called upon to play a fundamental role in global food security and in the preservation of our rural communities. we naively believed, when the 1992 reform was introduced, when the macsharry reform was introduced, that food security was more than assured and that the market would put everyone in his place. but we have realised that the increasingly globalised market does not meet the aspiration for continued agricultural production with safe food at reasonable prices throughout the whole of europe. the rise in the price of raw materials, which is now falling, has caused a shock, accompanied by an increase in the production costs of fertilisers and feed, and has dragged a number of sectors, such as sheep and beef, into a deep crisis. commissioner, this "serra" effect seems to be taking its toll. i would like to refer to and make a special mention of the sheep sector and the milk sector. the sheep are in decline. community support measures are needed, as parliament asked for in june, and article 68 is not going to be enough. milk: a soft landing requires a transitional period so that the sector can scale up and adapt without the rigidity of the current quota shortage and, moreover, the situation, commissioner, is not the same in all member states.
mr president, a large majority of farmers and livestock farmers are waiting for the decisions and prior agreements to be adopted by the council of agriculture ministers of the union between today and tomorrow on this review of the cap, because it is not a simple review, but will bring about profound changes, such as the disappearance of many farms, if this cut proposed by the european commission in direct aids is carried out. the modulation is the central point of this parliamentary report and could be one of the few elements of parliament's opinion which have any impact on the negotiations being held by the union's agriculture ministers. we have been opposing for years any increase in what we euphemistically call 'modulation', because if rural development policy does not have sufficient funds it is not because of a lack of resources within the cap's spending ceiling, but because of an absolute lack of political will to provide the community budget with this necessary pillar. you want to liberalize the markets? of course, but with the same requirements and conditions for all producers, both inside and outside the union. the future of many farmers and livestock farmers is at stake in the european union at the moment, and i would particularly like to make a reference to the fragile sectors such as sheep, cattle and tobacco, whose survival in many producing areas will depend on this check. some producers, such as sheep producers, are no longer asking for aid, but simply want to be allowed to leave the market with dignity, because they have done their homework and the only way to survive is to reduce the volumes produced. the only way out for many producers is to abandon production, which will no doubt be replaced by imports from third countries, because consumers will continue to consume and the world will continue to increase the number of consumers by leaps and bounds. parliament should give a prudent opinion and the council should listen to it. i am grateful to the chairman of the committee on agriculture and rural development, mr parish, for his efforts to ensure that parliament is heard and is not ignored in such a clear and visible way by the council and the commission as it has been so far.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr capoulas santos, on his excellent work. i think you have found balance and moderation in your report. i think that the important thing at this stage of the debate is to send a message of stability to our farmers. european farmers need stability and solutions more than ever. sufficient transitional periods are necessary, as well as the maintenance of specific measures which are necessary for sectors in difficulty. commissioner, the same solutions do not apply to all sectors. we must remember that we have sectors which are experiencing real difficulties. the common agricultural policy must not be the problem but the solution, and for that we need a strong first pillar. we believe in rural development and we are committed to it, but we do not believe that the modulation proposed by the commission is the solution. it is not a question of strengthening rural development at the expense of the first pillar. we agree that the single payment scheme must be simplified, that market instruments must be reviewed. but that doesn't mean dismantling them. if we do this right, we will be laying the foundations for a common agricultural policy beyond 2013; if we do not, we will be putting an end to the activity of many european farmers.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, we are facing a plan that the fruit and vegetable sector has been eagerly awaiting, not only because of the difficulties it is experiencing but also because of the worrying decline in consumption. we are dealing here with a plan for the promotion of public health; i believe it should be a european plan, and i also support full community funding. i do not agree that parents can participate in co-financing, because the usual will happen: those children whose parents can contribute money will eat fruit and vegetables in schools, and those who cannot will be excluded from the programme. i think it has to be a community-funded plan so that it is evenly distributed. i would also like to stress that the emphasis should be on educational measures. it is not just a question of a student eating an apple, but of knowing what kind of apple he is eating, knowing its nutritional properties and understanding the beneficial effects that this fruit has on his health and development. of course, these must be products with all the guarantees of quality, giving priority, if possible, to seasonal fruit and, where possible, i defend the community origin of our fruit and vegetables. i think that the beneficial effects of this plan, which i welcome and for which i congratulate the commissioner, will be felt immediately, of course, in the present and future health of our children and their food education, but i also think that it is very important for the fruit and vegetable sector, a productive sector which is a true european cultural heritage, because thanks to it we can enjoy a balanced, healthy and varied diet. i think it's worth investing in this plan to distribute fruit and vegetables in our schools. i think the budget is a little short, because, again, i am in favour of full community financing for such an ambitious plan.
madam president, i shall not dwell too much on the diagnosis of the financial crisis. we all agree that it was a liquidity crisis that has become a solvency crisis and has ended up in a crisis of confidence that has caused a credit crunch that has ended up hurting the real economy. the response, contrary to what has been said here, has not been a united european response. at best, it was a coordinated response. i may be told that, given the current situation, it is not possible to do more. i think it's possible to do more. in the field of financial rescues, in the field of liquidity and solvency, it is shocking that three institutions are going to the markets and making loans at the same time: the european central bank, the european investment bank and the commission itself. the three are competing against each other, ultimately, to the detriment of each other. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. some states will opt for tax cuts, others for a purely keynesian public spending programme. we would do well to know that if we do not coordinate our actions, those who work will benefit those who do not work and we would do well to set rules on the stability and growth pact. in international matters it is true that my country, spain, the czech republic and the netherlands were present in washington, but they were not present at the preparatory meetings and no one can guarantee that they will be in the future. i would like to know from the council and the commission how they intend to reform the international monetary fund board and what they intend to do to ensure that all the countries that need to be represented in the financial stability fund are represented. and i'll end with a warning. we are asked for parliament's cooperation in the commission's programme: it has always had it. and if the commission had heeded the warnings we have been making since 1999 in repeated reports which have not been followed by the commission and, specifically, by mr mccreevy, another cock would be crowing now.
madam president, it is clear that the commission's work programme for 2009 in the field of foreign policy, as in other areas, is inseparable from the context of the international financial crisis, as the president of the commission, mr barroso, has told us. we therefore believe that it is right to support the reform of the bretton woods institutions, to encourage the relaunch of the world trade organisation talks and to follow closely the efforts to reform the united nations system and the united nations bodies, which are to begin in february. it is also clear, madam president, that we must redefine our relationship with the administration that has just come out of the polls in the united states, a country with which we have many similarities and some differences, particularly with regard to the death penalty, the international criminal court and the kyoto protocol, and that we must agree on positions with a view to the forthcoming copenhagen summit, laws with extraterritorial effect and other aspects. i think it is also important to agree positions on the central asia table: the nuclear crisis in iran, the announcement of a calm and responsible withdrawal from iraq or the request by the us administration for an increase in the western presence in afghanistan, and to see how the failure of the negotiating process in the middle east can be remedied. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the conclusion of the association agreements with central america. i understand that this process, after the strategic partnership that the european commission has launched with brazil and mexico, could perhaps also be the way forward in the negotiations with the mercosur agreement, which has been stalled for too long. on our continent, madam president, we must promote the association agreement with russia, but on the basis of respect for international law, and in this connection we must place a very clear emphasis on the issue of preserving borders and respect for human rights, strengthening the neighbourhood policy and, at the same time, the association and stabilisation agreements. it is clear that we have a lot to do - as the president of the commission has said - with regard to the situation in africa, and what seems to me very important, madam president, is that, once the reform processes, the lisbon treaty and enlargement have been completed, the european union should be situated, or its position should be reviewed, in a fundamentally geographical area, taking into account that, by 2050, china and india will absorb 50% of the world's gross domestic product, as was already the case around 1800. and that task, madam president, requires anticipation, and we can say, madam vice-president, that our political group will support the commission in these tasks.
madam president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the g20 summit has set out a very ambitious agenda, which is nothing less than to bring financial globalisation under control. that also means, particularly in europe, drawing on our experience and learning from it, especially capitalism, which is a system based on self-interest where, if there are no rules, greed will break the bank. the president of the commission was asking us a few questions in order to avoid falling into populism, but there are things that can be done. the mad cow taught us that you can't sell toxic, rotten products in supermarkets or butchers and that there have to be rules. in europe we could do things if we learn from our mistakes, and that happened in my country. for example, it could be argued that banks, savings banks and financial institutions should be required to make provisioning for crisis situations or, madam president, that off-balance-sheet operations and securitisation processes should be prohibited without justification. that is something that corresponds to the prudent management that financial institutions must have and that we have not yet achieved in europe. i think the commission would do well to work in this area too.
madam president, as regards the fisheries policy, some of the proposals we were hoping for have now been delayed so much that we would need a fixed timetable of work to enable us to know with greater certainty what dossiers we are going to be facing as members of this parliament. despite our demands in this respect and apart from the reform of the control policy which has just been put forward, it has not yet been possible for us to work with more precise forecasts. the commission document informs us that one of the priorities will be the presentation of the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy, but in reality this is only the beginning of a debate which will not be concluded until 2012. the promised reform of the common organisation of the market is also mentioned in the communication, but we are not sure that it will be available in the first half of 2009. i would remind you that there are a whole series of matters which, either because of international commitments such as fisheries agreements or because of multilateral obligations such as the need to transpose the recommendations of the regional fisheries organisations into community legislation, should be included in the legislative programme. there are also other matters, such as the future of european aquaculture or the proposal on discards that appear and disappear like a ghost from the commission's work schedules, which we believe, given the importance that both the sector and this parliament have attached to them, should also become priorities. we therefore hope, madam president, that an adjusted timetable for 2009 will be presented as soon as possible, taking into account these repeated requests from the european parliament.
acting president of the council. - madam president, in reply to mr rack, we are of course aware of turkey's leverage over the northern part of cyprus and we will raise these issues. as you know, there is also a delegation of elected representatives from northern cyprus coming to the european parliament on thursday and this will be an opportunity to show them our deep concern in this regard. i would like to reassure mr allister that we are of course following the fate of all the denominations and i thank him for giving us this testimony concerning two young people from the protestant community who were indeed the victims of threats or aggression in this area. we shall therefore draw the attention of the turkish authorities to this point, mr allister.
acting president of the council. - madam president, in reply to mr ortega, if i am not mistaken, but you have helped me, madam president, the migration policy which the european union intends to implement is based on a principle of solidarity, solidarity between the member states, particularly those which would be subject to strong migratory pressure, and solidarity with the countries of origin, in order to deal in particular with the root causes of poverty. this principle is the basis of the comprehensive approach to migration defined by the european council in december 2005. this comprehensive approach to migration aims to strengthen dialogue and cooperation with third countries of origin and transit of migrants. it provides that dialogue with third countries shall cover all dimensions of migration, including legal migration, the prevention of and fight against illegal migration, and the link between migration and development. subsequently, the european council has constantly reaffirmed the need to continue, intensify and make more effective the implementation of this approach. it was in this spirit of cooperation between countries of origin, transit and destination that the first euro-african ministerial conference on migration and development was organised in rabat in july 2006. a second ministerial conference on migration and development will be held in paris on 25 november 2008. it will be invited to adopt a multiannual operational programme which will include a series of actions to be implemented by the partners concerned by the migratory flow along the west african routes, in particular in the context of preventing and combating illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings. border management, including physical and human capacity building and operational cooperation with frontex, is also a key area of dialogue and operational cooperation with third countries, in particular with mediterranean countries. for example, operation hera 2008, conducted under the aegis of the frontex agency, has significantly reduced the number of migrants arriving on the coasts of the canary islands. in the same spirit, migration issues will be part of the negotiations that the commission will open with libya this month, following the mandate given to it by the council in september, with a view to the conclusion of the framework agreement between the european union and libya. finally, as you know, the principle of accountability was reaffirmed in the european pact on immigration and asylum last october. the pact also stresses the need for solidarity with member states which, because of their geographical situation, are exposed to an influx of immigrants or whose resources are limited, and calls on the commission to present solutions to take better account, in a spirit of solidarity, of the difficulties of these states.
mr president-in-office of the council, i agree with the approach taken by the council. the question is whether we can take concrete action: time is passing and the problems are getting bigger. in particular, problems for the mediterranean countries; some have the economic means to deal with them, others do not, for example, the case of malta, which, because of its small size and its scarce resources, is facing enormous difficulties. and then there are problems arising from the international nature of international rules, for example, the international convention for the protection of children, which practically prevents the return of children to their families of origin. i do not know whether the council is considering the possibility of drawing up rules on the protection of minors in such a way that we do not reach this absurd situation where minors come to europe and cannot be returned even to their families of origin, even though their families of origin have been identified. finally, on the more concrete issues: i know that there are already some concrete initiatives with african countries, for example mali, to set up immigration centres so that the countries of origin or transit can manage this without the dramatic situation of dozens of people dying at sea trying to reach our shores in a fruitless way.
president of the council. - madam president, i would like to say that mr posselt's question is relevant. the union for the mediterranean is, from the outset, a genuine union of concrete projects. it also has an intercultural outlook. it is obviously linked to economic development and everything that has to do with co-development is included in economic development. so, in any case, i confirm to mr posselt that these aspects will be addressed in due course, in the context of projects and discussions on economic development between the two shores of the mediterranean.
president of the council. - madam president, mr masip, as you point out, the council did indeed decide on 23 june to re-engage with cuba, taking note of certain positive developments in the field of human rights which have recently taken place. the council first of all expressed its support for the resumption of an unprecedented dialogue between the european union and cuba, based on reciprocity and covering all subjects of mutual interest. the dialogue aims to achieve concrete results, particularly in the field of human rights. in this context, mr masip, the first session of the political dialogue between the european union and cuba at ministerial level was held in paris on 16 october. secondly, in its conclusions of 23 june, the council reaffirmed that it would continue its dialogue with representatives of civil society and the democratic opposition during high-level visits where human rights issues would be systematically addressed. meetings with the opposition will be organised as part of these visits, where appropriate. the council also stressed that the union would continue to offer all sectors of cuban society concrete support for peaceful change on the island. and so, in application of these conclusions, the organisations representing this opposition will be regularly invited to come and present their views on the political developments under way. finally, the council recalled that the union remains prepared to contribute constructively to the development of all sectors of cuban society, including through development cooperation, and as part of this commitment, as you know, commissioner louis michel has just paid an official visit to cuba to agree on the broad lines of this cooperation and on concrete projects that can be launched there. so you can see that, beyond this visit by commissioner michel, the council has taken many effective measures in application of the conclusions of last june, and it is next june, at the end of the czech presidency, that the council will evaluate the political dialogue with cuba and its results. the dialogue will continue on this basis if it appears that cuba is meeting the expectations expressed in the union framework, in particular in the field of human rights.
i would like to thank you very much, mr minister, on behalf of my colleague luis yañez-barnuevo garcía, a consistent and democratic person who is in solidarity with the cuban opposition and the cuban people. never cease to pursue your priorities, to put this dialogue with the cuban opposition at the forefront. we must achieve democracy in cuba, we must achieve this commitment from all of europe to cuba.
acting president of the council. - madam president, in reply to the honourable member who took up mr evans' question, you are quite right. the solvency issues are not only for banks, they are also for insurance companies, and we need to adapt our supervisory arrangements at the level of groups which can be effectively consolidated or transnational also within this sector. that is why we are really committed to the successful completion of the work on the solvency ii directive. we really want this work to be completed as quickly as possible and we support the commission in its work. we really hope that we can find a compromise on this, but it is clear that we need to have elements to strengthen the supervision of solvency at the level of insurance groups. in reply to mrs mcguinness, i think that the way the g20 was held, the way it was prepared, the fact that there is an action plan that was agreed at the g20 shows that the council was united in its action. i would remind you that in the context of this action plan you also have elements which say that all available margins must be used to support the activity; in this action plan you have very concrete measures relating to financial regulation which i have already mentioned, which i will not go into further, and which we expect to be implemented rapidly at european union level. we have asked that, in response to the financial crisis but also to the economic crisis, the commission take the necessary legislative or practical initiatives and that your assembly can support it by voting the necessary texts as soon as possible. on the coordination of the member states, i would like to say to mrs mcguinness that i think it is important that this early warning unit, this coordination unit, should work well within the framework of the economic and financial committee with the representatives of the member states and the various institutions concerned, whether the european central bank or the eurogroup. as regards mr mitchell's intervention, i believe that, without mentioning the marshall plan, and in accordance with the principles of the g20, and speaking on behalf of the presidency, what we want is that all the levers of action at community level, in conjunction with what exists at national level, can be used: whether it is the existing facilities for borrowing under the european investment bank, or the margins available under the community budget which must also be used for business support purposes, or of course the margins available under the national budgets, particularly as regards future expenditure and business support projects, or whether also, at community level, the simplification or adaptation of a number of rules to help the sectors which are in the most difficult. we are very pragmatic in this respect, but it is clear that we must act in this area. you are quite right, in any case, the presidency shares your view. as regards what mrs andrikienė said, i am sorry, hungary has received financial aid. the fund has granted, as i said, 12.5 billion euros, and i can tell you that, and the union 6.5 billion euros, but it is clear that this solidarity benefits countries which are affected by major crises in their balance of payments and which have problems refinancing their external debt. you can be sure that within the union we will put in place the necessary solidarity mechanisms. we were faced with a particularly serious situation with regard to hungary. i mentioned iceland too. we found ourselves in a difficult situation. if the baltic states or some of the countries you know best, other countries, which i do not wish, find themselves in the same predicament, the same solidarity mechanisms will have to be put into place. that is the position of the presidency and, of course, there can be no unity without solidarity. i would like to say to mr papadimoulis that, firstly, i do not always agree with president prodi. so it does happen. secondly, that we need some budgetary discipline. thirdly, as i said in referring to the g20 conclusions, it seems to me self-evident that these principles must be adapted to exceptional circumstances and that exceptional measures are needed. it is common sense and where i agree with it is that we should not be dogmatic. fourthly, as regards tourism, i know the president-in-office well enough to know that he has other favourite places and that he is putting all his energy into serving the european union. i think we're aware of that, which is the main thing for us.
mr president, the financial technique of securitisation is making the well-known american junk mortgages part of mortgage bonds and other funds that have been bought by european banks and citizens. does the council know the amount of this financial crap that has been sold to us across the atlantic?
mr president, i would like to thank the commission for putting forward this proposal. i think it is a positive proposal and will help us to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens. now, as the speakers before me have said, this parliament has an obligation to put into practice what are very generous and very altruistic proposals from the commission. and the reality is that there is a national reality in which there are 27 countries with different legal systems and with very different languages, which requires that, in each of our countries, we adjust to the realities of the country, including the issue of languages. in concrete terms, as mr gauzès has just said, and as previous speakers have said, it is important that the recognition of these national specificities does not lead to an increase in costs, that the rates are uniform and that the governments eventually bear this additional cost. but there's a theme that comes up as well: it's the theme of translations. in the european union, we do not have a common language. in the 27 countries, very different languages are often spoken, and even in some countries, like the commissioner's, different languages are spoken and we live with that. and from a legal point of view, we also find that legal documents are different. the committee on legal affairs has proposed, for example, amendments on the authentication of documents and the authentication of translations. the committee on legal affairs is currently preparing a report on the recognition of authentic instruments in different countries of the european union which should be complementary to this report. i think the commission has done the right thing in presenting this report. the rapporteur has done a magnificent job and i think we have all worked hard to come up with a legislative proposal that can be recognised throughout the union, guaranteeing rights and starting from the basis of the reality of a union that is being built, that has different national laws and that has different levels of access to electronic communications.
madam president, in the present crisis situation the laudable efforts of the french presidency and of the commissioner for industry, mr verheugen, are to be commended, but we need more and more urgently, and we also need to ensure that no voices in the commission are heard which are at odds with industry and competition. the automobile sector, with all its manufacturers, auxiliaries, distributors and financial sectors, needs an urgent and bold multi-stakeholder aid plan. the citizens do not understand the timidity and reticence in deciding on the necessary aid to the automobile industry, with its direct, massive and high-quality employment, as opposed to the diligence shown to help the financial sector, whose most serious mistakes are judged with more benevolence. the workers of opel in figueruelas, in zaragoza, who have accompanied and supported the development of their company in spain and germany, do not understand this, nor would the government of aragon or the spanish government, which deploys all its investment capacities and expects the coordination and leadership of the european union. we need a bold and rapid plan to help replace the european car fleet with safer and cleaner vehicles in the short term, starting in december, a european 'renew plan' that will provide incentives from direct investment to consumption. we also need aid and support for european companies, not forgetting subsidiaries, distributors and financial institutions. and it would also help us to have a quick, normal and logical agreement on the dosage of cars and emissions.
the next item is the joint debate on - the report by ewa klamt, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council directive on the conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of highly qualified employment (com (2007) 0637 - c6-0011/2008 - 2007/0228 (cns)) (a6-0432/2008), and - the report by patrick gaubert, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a council directive establishing a single procedure for applying for a single permit to allow third-country nationals to reside and work in the territory of a member state and establishing a common set of rights for third-country workers legally resident in a member state (com (2007) 06387) - c6-0470/2007 - 2007/0229 (cns) (a6-031/2008). i am informed by the house's services that mrs klamt's father has died and that she is therefore not present, so naturally we express our condolences to mrs klamt and thank mr weber for taking the responsibility of acting as rapporteur in this debate.
on behalf of the pse group. i would ask you, mr president, not to include these first words in the infernal time machine, because my first words are to add to the message of condolence which this house has sent to mrs klamt and, above all, to congratulate the rapporteurs. now i'm really starting. i congratulate the rapporteurs because with these two proposals we are taking a qualitative step towards a common immigration policy and we are entering into the promotion of legal immigration, a key pillar of the global approach we are advocating. the general framework of rights and the single residence and work permit for legal migrants should be extended to the greatest number of workers. that is why we socialists ask that no category of worker should be excluded. the so-called 'blue card' provides an opportunity for migrants to settle with their families and work in our countries. it opens a single door to 27 labour markets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we therefore hope, commissioner, that the commission will shortly present its proposals for the other categories of employment. ladies and gentlemen, we must fight against brain drain. this blue card must not become a passport to the bleeding of vital human resources in developing countries. the socialist group therefore wants to pay for the training of a new professional in the country of origin for every qualified professional who comes to europe. finally, europe must be an attractive destination, not only for talents from outside the union but also for our own. in 2007, almost 300 000 highly qualified europeans left to work outside the union. let us do everything we can to keep them in the european house.
mr president, commissioner, mr pribetich, i think your proposal is very complete and balanced and i would like to congratulate you on putting in a little more light so that we can see the stars better. the european union must be responsible for defining europe's political aspirations in the field of space, putting space at the service of european citizens and our economy and guaranteeing autonomous and reliable access to it. i therefore welcome the council conclusions of last september as a useful political commitment to the development of european space policy. the priorities must be the timely implementation of the galileo and egnos programmes and the global monitoring system for environment and security, which will support the evaluation and implementation of european policies affecting the environment. and as regards funding, we must find instruments suitable for european space policy which, beyond what is provided for in the seventh framework programme, allow for medium- and long-term planning. the possible introduction of a specific chapter in the budget would demonstrate the european union's commitment to this policy and would increase its clarity and transparency in anticipation of the entry into force of the provisions of the treaty of lisbon.
does it seem to you, madam vice-president, that the proximity or remoteness of candidates from the electorate has anything to do with the degree of participation in the european elections? do you agree that a state of 45 million people should have only one constituency for elections to the european parliament? what can the commission do to ensure that the most populous member states have constituencies that are closer to the citizens?
vice-president of the commission. − i tried to do my bit by visiting ireland last week. i tried to explain what i think are the added values of european cooperation. i think the debate about the euro and why it has been to the advantage of ireland to belong to the euro area is going well now, but it raises the basic question of who will advocate the european union; who will speak for the european union. where does the responsibility lie? we can never count on brussels doing all of that. it has to be shared and done in partnership. actually i think that the political controversy and debate are good, because there are different versions, different programmes etc. i think that helps to raise interest, and it is also ultimately good for voter turnout. of course we want to encourage and stimulate a lively debate and discussion on the european agenda and european issues. we all have to be advocates. that is why i am proud and happy that we, for the first time, have this kind of framework of an agreed partnership on communication. we have never had that before. so we should decide to share the responsibility to be advocates and also to listen to the concerns of people across europe, because really it is communication, not only information, that matters. listen better, explain better and go local: that is what i repeat with regard to communication. the campaign will be carried out differently in different member states because it will have to be adapted to national conditions. this is what we are trying to do now. we are trying to speed it up as much as we can, but we also have to respect the financial regulation and all the rules. we have to be correct in everything we do. we had a meeting today, which we will follow up. we will try to respond as best we can to the parliament’s detailed timetable for planning for the ep elections. i think that we will already be able to allocate and spend money this year, but of course more resources becoming available would help us to organise more activities next year. i repeat that i think we also have to look at using audiovisual media and the internet more extensively in order to be effective and to reach out to young people.
i'm sorry, but i didn't hear the vice president answer my questions.
vice-president of the commission. − now we are into a completely different policy area. the commission is perfectly aware of the poverty which, combined with other factors such as instability, climate change and human rights violations, drives migrants to embark on a hard, sometimes tragic journey. the commission is active on all these fronts, primarily via the political dialogue conducted with these countries and via the european development fund and its aim of combating poverty. in response to the tragic events in ceuta and melilla and as part of the global approach approved by the european council in late 2005, the european union wanted a structured dialogue with africa on the link between migration and development under the rabat process in respect of the west african migratory route, shortly to be followed up by the paris conference on 25 november, and the tripoli process in respect of africa as a whole. the partnership on migration mobility and employment was launched at the december 2007 eu-africa summit in lisbon. the underlying idea is that the partnership should find solutions to migration by linking it to employment issues. the migration information and management centre, inaugurated by the development and humanitarian aid commissioner and malian president touré in bamako on 6 october, exemplifies the practical application of the integrated approach that the commission is striving to promote. it is, moreover, ready to reproduce this example elsewhere in west africa. as regards migrants’ living conditions: one of the objectives of the migration and asylum programme is to protect migrants’ rights, inter alia by strengthening the capacity of administrations and stakeholders in countries of transit or destination such as the north african countries to assist migrants, especially in certain conditions. by way of example, the european community has recently granted funding under the programme for the following projects: the continuing financing of the libya office of the high commissioner for refugees, which plays a key role in promoting the rights of refugees and asylum seekers; improving the protection of the living conditions of international migrants in north africa; strengthening the capacity of civil society organisations in the area of promoting the rights of migrants in north africa; and a programme enabling migrants in libyan morocco to return home voluntarily in decent conditions. lastly, the commission is using the programme to finance many projects in sub-saharan africa addressing the prevention of illegal immigration, the promotion of legal migration, the link between migration and development and the promotion of refugee and asylum-seeker advocacy.
thank you very much, madam vice president. you have given me a great deal of information on the subject you raised and i thank you for that detailed information. i think that the new phase of the commission and, above all, the bamako project for a european union centre on immigration is important. i know that it has just been opened, which is probably very soon, but the question i ask the commission is: if the bamako (mali) project on immigration is successful, does the commission think it is possible to extend this experience to the rest of the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean?
vice-president of the commission. − the commission maintains regular direct contact with civil society in all countries of the world, including cuba. the commission’s role in cuba is appreciated and supported by civil society and by opposition groups. the commission delegation in cuba regularly receives representatives of civil society and opposition groups, and the commission’s departments in brussels pursue an open-door policy vis-à-vis any person or organisation that wants a constructive discussion on cuba or any other country. the meeting that relaunched political dialogue between the european union and cuba, following the council conclusions of 23 june which terminated the diplomatic measures adopted in 2003, was an eu ministerial troika meeting on cuba in paris on 16 october 2008. the positive spirit that reigned at that meeting allowed frank and open discussions to take place on subjects of common interest, such as the international financial crisis, human rights, cooperation with cuba and reform of the united nations. the commission is firmly convinced – and the commissioner for development and humanitarian aid has said this on several occasions – that frank and open dialogue between the eu and cuba provides the best framework for discussion on matters of common concern to the two sides, including questions of human rights.
i am grateful for the reply on behalf of mr yañez-barnuevo, but i must say to mr michel, commissioner, that his actions, his words and his gestures are very necessary in a direct contact with the democratic cuban opposition in order to implement the council's priority conclusions and reduce the effects of the terrible castro dictatorship and promote freedom.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, since december 2006 we have had the single cmo regulation, which the commission describes as an essential element of the plan to rationalise and simplify the common agricultural policy. this statement - for some and for me too - is very questionable, but i do not think that this is the case or the moment. the debate has already taken place and we have not only been living with this regulation for a few months, but we have voted this morning to amend it. today, the number of pages has to be increased even further by incorporating regulation (ec) no 479/2008 establishing the wine cmo, a text which will be repealed by the proposal we are debating today to incorporate it in its entirety into the single cmo regulation. the sector has also expressed to me its concern about the dispersion of wine-sector cmo items in many chapters of the single cmo regulation and the risk that the specificity of this production is diluted by this dispersion. we understand - i understand it so - that incorporation is absolutely inevitable and we have all had the opportunity to read the letter which the commissioner has addressed to the chairman of the committee on agriculture, mr parish, assuring that this legislative technique will not alter the core of the regulation of this sector. it must be purely technical and in no way affect the content. that is why, even though i understand and share certain reservations, i can only support mr parish's report.
madam president, the european commission is presenting us with this single cmo and is telling us that it is now going to include wine in a new presentation which is supposed to avoid paperwork and bureaucracy. however, producers tell us that it creates more confusion, that it gives producers a regulatory uncertainty which worries them and that it will certainly not change the substance of the wine cmo (it would be necessary for it to do so without going through this house, as is the rule, even if only for consultation). in any event, the wine cmo is more than a market cmo. it has other requirements, such as the issue of labelling. so if milk is not the same as vegetables and vegetables are not the same as cereals and, of course, cereals are not the same as wine, why put them together as if they had anything to do with each other? i think that this proposal has some technical shortcomings which, as i said, have been denounced by the producers, and i wonder what will happen now if, for example, a modification of part of this single cmo is proposed, will the window be opened to all the other sectors? i think we cannot give a motion of confidence to the european commission if the commission does not guarantee us that, firstly, there will be a search engine - as mrs klaß asked for - that will guarantee producers safety and speed and confidence in looking for regulation and, secondly, if the commission does not guarantee us that there will be legal and regulatory security so that a window cannot be opened or a window left open constantly to any modification of any included cmos. it is a policy of the past that the european commission is pursuing with this report, but do not say that we did not warn you that this was a mistake and that it will in no way avoid paperwork or bureaucracy but, in any case, will create more and more regulatory uncertainty, which is what worries the producer the most.
on behalf of the pse group. madam president, i would like to thank mrs lulling for her constant efforts to ensure that this matter, which some may consider to be a minor one, is included in the debates of this parliament, even in the wee hours of the morning. beekeeping is a livestock activity with important economic repercussions and beneficial effects on rural development and the ecological balance. in my country, beekeeping employs some 27 000 producers, who manage more than 2 300 000 hives and make it the largest producer of honey in the european union. spanish beekeepers, like all others, are facing difficulties arising not only from the decline in pollen and nectar but also from the emergence of new pests which are decimating the hives. the commission should already be working on a line of inquiry into the origin of these diseases and, in this respect, a budgetary effort seems to us to be essential. but i would add that imports - i am referring to imports of honey - must meet the same requirements as our own production and offer full guarantees to consumers. in this respect, good labelling of our products is essential and the commission has an important job to do. a high level of controls at border inspection posts, both in frequency and number, must be maintained to ensure that no waste beekeeping products from third countries are brought into the european union. beekeeping is for many of our farmers a supplement to an income that is almost always low. it is also a job that employs a lot of female labour. honey is featured prominently in small fairs and markets and beekeepers have made a major effort to diversify their products, to improve labelling, hygiene and health guarantees, and to open up new distribution channels. we cannot simply, commissioner, let all this effort go to waste.
mr president, under article 274 of the treaty, the council has the same responsibility as the commission in respect of expenditure. we are the budgetary authority. mr president, have we invited the council to this debate? i don't see any representatives. have they excused their presence? have they given any reason why they are not here, mr. president? i don't understand that. do they not want to hear for the 14th time that the court of auditors says that things have to get better, when they are the ones who spend more than 80% of the money of the europeans? or are they comfortable being the member states, the ones who happily spend, while here in this parliament we are putting our cheek to the bone to get out of the way of the mistakes of an absent guest, because i am assuming he was invited? i'll tell you in french. we are in france. where is the french presidency? where is mr sarkozy? where is your representation in this debate? let's see if this, in molière's language, gets you there a little bit sooner. it is unacceptable; all my colleagues on the committee on budgetary control agree with me that this should not happen again. i thought that the french presidency, an excellent presidency, would also improve this aspect of the face-off. because this is where you have to face it. he can't spend and then not come. because the council, not just the member states, is also subject to our control. but he never is. they don't want to hear the same thing. the solution will be to move forward with the involvement of national declarations. two things: mr. silva caldeira, congratulations to you. in this last debate, in this parliament, they have made a very good report. part of the success of things getting better is the court of auditors, which you preside over. please convey to all the judges our congratulations, as several of my colleagues have already said. mr kallas, this commission has made things much better. unfortunately, we have not reached the final goal of a positive sdr, but things are going well. a small suggestion: simplify. it is necessary to simplify and give responsibility to the member states and to make them show their face. simplification and reduction of bureaucracy will be the way to spend europeans' money better.
court of auditors. − mr president, i wish first of all to thank everyone for their kind words about those working at the court of auditors, and all those contributing to the result we have debated here this morning. on behalf of all those working at the european court of auditors i thank the members for appreciating what we do to assist the european parliament as foreseen in the treaty. that is our mandate. it is our role. we take good note of the comments and suggestions you have addressed to the court with a view to it further improving the way it presents its results and its findings and communicates these to you and to the citizens of the european union. we will strive to strictly apply international auditing standards in all areas, including when taking into consideration the work of other auditors, namely those engaged in the member states in auditing european union funds. i shall finish by saying briefly that we will continue to assist the european parliament and its committee on budgetary control during the discharge procedure, and that we will again strive for full cooperation with all the institutions. at the end of the day, the important thing is that the result of our work, as i said in my speech, is a sign that the european institutions are accountable and transparent, and that one can have confidence in the european union.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, many remarks have been made. we have a long process of discharge and discussions ahead of us, during which all these remarks should receive answers and/or comments. i would just like to make a comment about simplification, which has been raised many times. everybody says they are in favour of simplification, but in fact, there are two different underlying opinions. the first is that the recipients of money want to have more of a free hand, while those contributing that money want a very clear understanding of where the money is going. so there is a constant contradiction. secondly, we have until now – although the past two years or so have been different – always assumed that there is zero tolerance for any error. the rules are therefore elaborated to prevent any error in the millions of transactions that take place. that has also produced some kind of mythological view of the famous declaration of assurance, saying that the underlying transactions of all accounts have errors. in fact, as the court of auditors says in this report, 95% of all expenditure is free of errors, except in the structural funds, where the level of error is higher. so the vast majority of spending has been done in accordance with the rules. however, zero tolerance of errors is something we will soon be addressing. the question of tolerable risks has been raised here many times also, and we will also soon present to parliament a communication on the intensive discussions which are taking place at the moment in the commission. we have models which clearly show, for instance, that if you want to have zero tolerance – 100% free of errors – then you have the enormous cost of controls. somewhere there is a point where the errors, costs and risks meet. in this we highly appreciate the court of auditors’ approach, first of all towards introducing this kind of quantitative travel light which gives a much better picture. then we will go ahead and see – as one honourable member said – that maybe in some areas there should be less materiality threshold, and more in others. then we can have a more reasonable interpretation of the requirement of the legality and regularity of transactions.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the report by mrs ingeborg gräßle, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1073/1999 concerning investigations conducted by the european anti-fraud office (olaf) (com (2006) 0244 - c6-0228/2006 - 2006/0084 (cod)) (a6-0394/2008).
madam president, i would like to congratulate mrs gräßle warmly and, above all, thank her for her openness to accepting concrete suggestions and proposals. i can assure you, and i congratulate you on this, that you have managed to lead a dynamic team to achieve the best possible results. i'm very happy for you, mrs. gräßle. i think the most important thing in this text, the thing for which at least my group has also fought, and in which we found mrs gräßle's attention, was the guarantee of the protection of the rights of citizens subject to investigation. the principles of the presumption of innocence, privacy and confidentiality, procedural guarantees and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union will henceforth be the main references of this code of procedure for olaf investigations, which we want to be published as soon as possible and which is also addressed, and should be addressed, to the monitoring adviser set up for this purpose, in order to respond to citizens' complaints within 30 working days. the role of the monitoring committee has also been strengthened, which is to protect olaf's independence by regularly monitoring the execution of the investigative function and which, moreover, - i would like to clarify and i assume that mrs gräßle will do so as well - can bring cases before the court of justice. - the rapporteur has taken care of that, as has the director, who can also bring the institutions before the court of justice. in this way, the task of the director of olaf is also more protected and guaranteed. the role of the european parliament in the institutional conciliation procedure is also being strengthened - i think that is also an important and novel element - and although we would have liked not to have to extend the extension periods, because two years always seem too long to us, we understand the difficulties and the complexity of the investigations, but for this we hope that the commission - and here again i thank mr kallas for his openness and the support he has given us - in the four years that are planned for the report to be presented to us after implementation can tell us how we can improve this point of reducing the time limits for the investigations as much as possible. i am also pleased to note that the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the european public prosecutor's office. thank you, mrs gräßle!
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. few atrocities have been committed by someone who has not invoked the name of god or a religion. in particular, the way in which this heinous murder was committed: a 13-year-old girl who is raped, who is then accused of adultery and who is then stoned to death by five men - if you can call them men - who prevent anyone from even trying to save her, in a stadium occupied by a thousand people. this, together with the acts of piracy that this year have reached the level of almost 100 hijacked ships off the coast of somalia, constitutes an absolutely unacceptable humanitarian situation. the international community cannot remain passive in the face of this. it cannot remain unmoved by cowardice, by the religious invocation to commit barbarity. we must therefore restore order by supporting the legitimate government of somalia to regain control of the whole country and establish a rule of law that respects human rights. i think that we have rarely been presented with a situation that is so clear and so binding. i do not think we can stand by here in this community of 500 million people and 27 countries, the largest in the world, without intervening in this situation. i do not know how it can be done, but i certainly think it must be done and that we must intervene quickly. the socialist group does not agree with the amendments which were tabled at the last minute and which were not negotiated at the time. we support the text of the joint resolution and hope that it will be the beginning of a greater concern on the part of the european union for this kind of humanitarian issues and for the rejection of the misuse of religious concepts to commit barbarity in the name of god.
i would like to say, mr president, that the committee on foreign affairs of the european parliament, including the rapporteur, mrs de keyser, voted in favour of mrs de keyser's report by a wide margin. we understand, and we conveyed this to the israeli foreign minister yesterday, who appeared before the committee on foreign affairs, the concern of this house at the humiliation and frustration suffered by the palestinian people. but precisely for these reasons, mr president, we believe that this parliament must first of all take a decision by means of a resolution, and i want to announce that my political group will accept the amendments tabled by the left, which establish a relationship - and this is not, mr wurtz, about upgrading the relationship with israel, but about voting a resolution and voting the opinion according to which the european parliament, in accordance with the powers conferred on it by the treaties, must give a negotiation that has been established by the european commission and the 27 member states. the european parliament must therefore, mr president, speak out forcefully for peace, in favour of peace in the middle east, and give its opinion on this agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with israel; it must therefore keep it on the agenda of this plenary session, as the conference of presidents of the political groups itself decided.
mr president, i shall not go into too much detail about the exceptional and historic nature of the present crisis. all my colleagues have said it, mr rasmussen has said it very well, and i would just like to add three things here: this is the biggest liquidity crisis i have ever known, and i am entering the year; there are no charts or routes for this crisis; and thirdly, we do know that the financial crisis is still going on and the markets are dry. so the first thing we have to do is to normalize the financial markets, and here i am going to make a reference to the central bank. in this house there is a kind of reverential respect for the central bank; i am secular in many things and i am secular in this one too, and i mean that the central bank must now reduce interest rates quickly and urgently. the transmission mechanisms are not working well, as was demonstrated in october, when the reduction in interest rates did not sufficiently translate into real interest rates. second, it has to provide liquidity for the longer term than it is doing. i know that this means that the guarantee box must be changed, but it must be done. financial institutions lend for the long term and need reliable long-term financing as well. the national banks are helping the central bank's policy to provide liquidity, and that can lead to national aid that distorts competition; therefore, we must be vigilant in this respect. thirdly and lastly, it has been shown that the central role, the central role, is now played by budgetary policy much more than by monetary policy. budgetary policy produces externalities and this requires close coordination. i fully agree with what the commissioner has said. secondly, i also agree that it is important to spend, but above all it is important to spend well on clear objectives that strengthen the competitiveness of the european economy, because only in this way can we restore budgetary balance in the medium term. i agree that the stability pact is still in force, and the first thing the commissioner should do is tell us what he means by 'breaking away from the reference value': a few hundredths, a few tenths, a few points? i believe, commissioner, that i will be vigilant about the work that the commissioner has to do to ensure that the stability pact is in force. if he does, god will reward him; if not, god will require it of him.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, it is deeds, not words, that count. actions are worth a thousand times more than words. we have adopted many resolutions in this parliament. there was criticism and good intentions in many of the resolutions we adopted, but the facts are more important. and the fact is that a year of negotiations on the annapolis process has failed; the fact is that the settlement process continues; the fact is that the situation in gaza is worse than ever and the fact is that today, as we speak, there are clashes between settlers and the israeli army itself. i want to be able to vote on that resolution in a few months; i want us to be able to deepen relations with the state of israel. because the true friends of israel, those who love israel, dare to speak the truth. the truth is that the occupation, as it stands today, can no longer continue. he can't go on. and we must send a message, the message that the european union's actions are conditional on a peace process, conditional on a minimum respect for human rights. and then we can move forward. we do want more and better relations with israel and the palestinians, and we must demonstrate this with clear conditions and with clear facts, and not just with words.
i have asked for the floor to congratulate the commission on this initiative, which is a major step forward in reducing red tape and other obstacles that european smes have to face on a daily basis. the plan highlights the important role that smes play in europe's economy. we must not forget, as has already been said, that there are approximately 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises operating in the union, which generate 70% of employment and cover all sectors of activity. the action programme for the reduction of administrative burdens sets the objective of reducing administrative burdens by 25% by 2012. we cannot ignore the fact that the legislation in force creates an administrative burden with a cost that, as early as 2006, was estimated at three and a half points of european gdp. this ambitious objective is part of a wider enterprise policy which aims to facilitate access for our smes to other markets, improve growth potential and encourage entrepreneurship. it is a good thing to facilitate the activity of smes beyond our own borders. and a common procedure for setting up companies in the eu will make it easier to set up subsidiaries in other eu countries and to benefit from the opportunities offered by the single market. i would like to conclude by saying that the main problem facing our smes today is financing and that is why we welcome the proposal by the european investment bank to diversify the instruments for supporting smes, simplify their use and extend their scope.
president of the council. - mr president, i thank the various speakers who, in the course of this debate, on the one hand supported the small business act and on the other hand insisted on rigorous and binding monitoring, and i would like to reassure those who spoke of ensuring that financial support is properly directed towards small and mediumsized enterprises: there is indeed a planned downturn in the support from the european investment bank. the european council will send a message to the heads of state or government to that effect, and we, as the presidency, will be advocating the strictest possible application. we will do our utmost to ensure that there is the clearest political support at the highest level for the sba and its action plan. as mr toubon has said, care must be taken to ensure that the specific features and the simplification measures do not weaken the guarantees for small and mediumsized enterprises. i think it's important. finally, as a nod to mrs wortmann, i should like to say that i am particularly sensitive to the support that must be given to women's businesses because every night, except tonight, i am reminded of this at home, my wife also running a small business. so i am really and extremely sensitive to that and you can count on the presidency and myself to make sure that what you have said is fully implemented, without of course any conflict of interest, i say this to this house. i would like to thank the vice-president of the commission and the commission as a whole for all their work - we have worked very well together during this presidency in the service of small and mediumsized enterprises - and to thank you warmly for your participation in this debate, as well as mrs fontaine for the question she raised and to reiterate that the european parliament will be the driving force in this process and in this follow-up.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i am grateful for the very broad consensus that has emerged in this debate, not only on the objectives of our policy for small and mediumsized enterprises, but also on the steps we are taking to achieve them. i would like to answer the questions that have been asked quickly. mr chichester, the positive reaction of the european investment bank has already been given. the loan volume was set at 15 billion euros until 2011, now it is 30 billion, so the doubling has already been achieved. in addition, there are of course other financial instruments available to smes within the european union, in particular in connection with the structural funds. i would also like to point out that all major european projects are designed to give small and mediumsized enterprises privileged access to them. as far as the question of cost reduction is concerned, i am pleased to inform you that the programme to reduce the cost of red tape for european businesses is proceeding according to plan. the next big step is to propose the introduction of e-invoicing, as called for here, which will in fact save up to 18 billion euros a year for small and mediumsized enterprises. the proposal for a directive on the problem of late payment, the late payment directive, is also well advanced and will be available for consideration by this parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i'm afraid you're not offering us money, you're offering a budget line with a zero in it. if you could offer a budget line with a lot of extra money, i would be happy to do that, but i don't see that. so i think it's more sensible at this point to optimize the programs and projects that we have to finance the small business act. this applies in particular to the competitiveness and innovation programme, which is my responsibility, but it also applies to the major structural funds, even to the rural development programme and even to the research framework programme. i see considerable opportunities everywhere to use these programmes to support small and mediumsized enterprises within the european union.
the debate was closed by a motion for a resolution (see minutes) tabled pursuant to rule 108 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 4 december at 12 noon. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the next item is the council declaration on arms exports (code of conduct).
president of the council. - mr president, as you said, we are very late and i would like to apologise to the members. i shall make that introduction to the debate, but unfortunately i have other commitments, and, given the unforeseeable delay that has been made, i cannot avoid it. i shall therefore ask the general secretariat of the council to take my place during the debate and, of course, to report very rigorously to the presidency on the conclusions of this debate. i would like to point out to you, ladies and gentlemen, that the conversion of the code of conduct into a common position is an important objective of the french presidency and that it is necessary to give a legal basis to the responsible approach of the member states to arms exports and to increase national convergence. your resolution of 13 march shows that you also share our view on this matter. the discussions have resumed in recent weeks. we are fully committed to making progress on this issue before the end of the french presidency. the adoption of the common position will be an instrument contributing to the further implementation of a responsible policy in order to prevent in particular that these exports are used for internal repression or international aggression or contribute to regional instability. we are convinced that the union's initiative to launch an arms trade treaty in the united nations would gain credibility if our own arms transfer control system became legally binding, and we agree with your assembly's view that it is urgent to convert the code into a legally binding instrument. we also agree with you that there is a need for effective control of arms brokering operations. member states agreed that the commitments on the exchange of information provided for in the 2003 council position should be implemented through the mechanism established under the code of conduct. so although some member states have not yet adopted the legislation necessary for its transposition into national law, i can assure you that all member states have regulations in this area. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are in full compliance with the council's common position. the adoption of common rules on export controls in the form of a common position will also enable member states to strengthen their controls on brokerage operations. the illicit flow of arms is also a problem of concern to us, and its strategy on small arms and light weapons already indicates that action is needed to stop or impede the illicit flow of arms. this was reinforced on 6 december 2007 in vienna at the meeting of the 40 states participating in the wassenaar arrangement on the control of exports of conventional arms and dual-use goods and technology. the presidency supports the idea of examining the possibility of extending these best practices to the destabilising transfer of small arms and light weapons, including by sea. despite the delay in adopting the common position, i would like to stress that the code of conduct is a particularly effective instrument which has contributed significantly to the harmonisation of member states' national policies in the field of arms export controls and, to this end, i would also point out that harmonisation is facilitated by the user guide which provides guidelines to guide the officials responsible in this field. this guide is regularly updated and thus makes a very large and pragmatic contribution to efforts to harmonize national policies in this field. in conclusion, i would like to say that we are building together a responsible approach to arms exports and i thank the european parliament for its support in this regard. he can count on the commitment of the council and the presidency.
mr zappalá, mr jouyet has had to leave and i want to excuse him, because the problem is that he has to take a train, and the delay in the debate is the reason why he is not with us. we all know how well mr jouyet has done his job throughout the semester, but it is the house that has been behind schedule. i am sure that the council officials here will convey to the presidency all the comments that you have made and that the other members will make.
on behalf of the green group, i am really indignant, mr president, because i would have liked to have made an enthusiastic speech and congratulated the french presidency on having achieved what we have been hearing for nine presidencies that was necessary, namely the adoption of a common position on arms exports. and i say that we have been hearing the same thing for nine presidencies because, since the dutch presidency in 2004, we were promised that this work would be done. we know that the work, from the technical point of view, in coarm is done. what i would have liked to hear today is that we have already taken the decision for the ministers to finally sign that text. i am therefore sorry to hear that we are not yet at that stage and i am even more sorry to see that the reason why this is so is that this decision is being linked to another worrying one: the lifting of the arms embargo on china. the two issues, as we have said many times, are separate, have nothing to do with each other and it seems to me that to make one dependent on the other is to do a disservice to what we were talking about: peace and control of arms exports.
four motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 4 december at 12 noon.
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance. we're going to be very strict, we're going to cut the word when the minute is exactly. we have 31 colleagues registered, although many, or at least some, are not present. it is not a turn to catch the eye, but it is a turn for speakers who have asked to speak for one minute.
we have finished this item on the agenda.
the next item is the report by mr gay mitchell, on behalf of the committee on development, on the rapid response mechanism to the sharp rise in food prices in developing countries (com (2008) 0450 c6-0280/2008 2008/0149 cod)) (a6-0396/2008).
i am grateful to mr mitchell for his report and for a really important keynote speech which will make the european parliament a force for progress and solidarity in the world. we shall now give the floor to commissioner michel, who will speak on behalf of the commission and who, by the way, like mrs oviir, mrs goudin and myself, has just returned from the other side of the world, 14 000 km from here, from the meeting we had in the joint parliamentary assembly of the communist party and the european union. by the way, i see you're coming in good shape, commissioner.
member of the commission. - mr president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the food crisis has hit the developing countries hard. i think that, as you said and as you did, europe had a moral obligation to respond quickly, especially since this crisis was accompanied by a very serious financial and economic crisis, the catastrophic effects of which will unfortunately soon be felt in the developing countries, because this could very well be the cancellation, and even beyond that, of official development assistance, but we shall have the opportunity to return to this. i think that our three institutions - parliament, the council and the commission - have risen to the challenge by working quickly on this facility for rapid response to soaring food prices in developing countries. i would like to thank you on behalf of president barroso and on behalf of the commission. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr mitchel, in particular for his excellent work, and mr böge and mr le foll for their contributions to the committees on budgets and agriculture. as you know, we regretted the refusal to use the unused margins in heading 2, but we were realistic, with the prospect of agreeing on a good text. i must say that the compromise text on which you will vote tomorrow is a good text, firstly because it incorporates your amendments and those of the council and secondly because it preserves the three key elements of our position. first, a billion euro response, and no one seems to have seriously questioned our estimate of needs. secondly, it has always been understood that this should be concentrated on a very short period. we had proposed two years but we can accept three. finally, the aim was to revive agricultural production in the countries most affected by the price increases. in other words, it was to save the crops closest to home. what are the next steps, after your vote tomorrow and the council's decision of 16 december? i think the most important thing is to implement it in the field. in january 2009 the commission will propose the first decisions on project funding, because i believe that we obviously need to start very quickly. the main objective is to save the agricultural production of the 2009 harvest. every effort will therefore be made to ensure that the majority of financial commitments are implemented in 2009 and that they have an impact on agricultural inputs, for example, for the 2009 season. as agreed, the general plan for the implementation of the facility will be submitted to you as soon as possible and in any event before the deadline of the end of april 2009. this facility was created thanks to the political will of our three institutions and its rapid and effective implementation will, of course, require the same common will.
on behalf of the pse group. commissioner, congratulations: without your absolute dedication to this cause, this apparently happy ending would not have been achieved. you have been, at all times, a great fighter to achieve this goal. i also thank my colleague, the rapporteur, mr mitchell. between the two of you, you have saved the european union from the utter ridicule of not finding that billion, after having promised it so many times in so many places around the world. it may not be exactly a thousand, it will not all be additional, but a very important part of it will be; it will not come from agriculture, as you proposed, commissioner, and it will not all be in one year, but in two or three, but the imperfections of the real world have not prevented you from achieving, let me say, with the support of the committee on development and also of the socialist party, the objective which you had proposed. it's not a lot of money, it's just one euro for every malnourished person in the world; one euro for every hungry person. but it can help to reduce this figure in the future, provided that member states do not deduct from their development aid the additional funds they have had to contribute to emergency aid. i would like to ask the commissioner to make a statement on the situation in the community. some have already hinted. others, however, such as spain, have firmly committed themselves not to do so. it would be pointless to dress one saint by stripping another, to change the money of the place to end up giving the same amount. i am sure that you, commissioner, would be the first to denounce it if it were to happen.
madam president, in the context of the current crisis situation, the united nations has warned us of the serious situation in 22 particularly vulnerable countries, and the world bank indicates that the 850 million people who are already suffering from hunger in the world must be supplemented by another 100 million people who will be added as a result of the crisis. this situation required a rapid and joint response from the european union, and last july the commission proposed a special financing instrument to help farmers in developing countries and to try to mitigate the rise in food prices. the aim was to increase agricultural production in these countries, where the effects of rising prices are most pronounced and jeopardize the achievement of the millennium development goals, and to avoid as far as possible instability and tensions that would jeopardize the achievements of years of investment in development and peacekeeping policies. we therefore welcome the agreement reached, which fulfils a promise to incorporate a billion made, as i said, at the highest political level... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in the communications which the commissioner has presented to us, the last of which is dated 1 december this year, the damage caused by tax evasion is singled out for praise. it affects sufficiency, it affects equity and it distorts the market in really important ways: vat fraud amounts to between eur 60 and eur 100 billion a year. how to tackle fraud? also, the diagnosis in these papers is usually correct, rhetorical and grandiloquent. it is said that it is up to the national authorities to tackle fraud, but that in those operations where the supplier and the customer are not resident in the same state, cooperation between member states is required. it is also recalled that the court of auditors, in its special report no 8, says that this cooperation has been frankly unsatisfactory and that action must therefore be taken. the problem is when the commissioner starts telling us what kind of actions we have to take. he says, with good judgment, that there are two strategies: one strategy, which he calls ambitious, of a total reform of value added tax, a system of self-liquidation, or a system of withholding tax with a clearing house, and what the commissioner calls 'conventional measures'. it was clear from his appearance on 24 june that he was by no means planning to tackle an ambitious reform and that he was confined to so-called 'conventional measures'. but then, when he describes the conventional measures, he describes four that are, in principle, not bad. it talks about reducing the time limits for tax declarations, strengthening cooperation between administrative authorities, introducing joint and several liability where the purchaser of goods fails to declare who sold them to him and improving information on taxable persons, to conclude that even these four measures are not part of the specific measures it intends to adopt. and today it is being misused with two proposals for amendments to a directive and a regulation, which literally say the following: 'the aim is to reduce the time limit for submitting the declarations that taxable persons have to make from three months to one month' and 'the aim is to reduce the time limit for transmitting the information to the state that has to collect the tax from three months to one month'. that's the end of it. that's all the proposal says. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has tried to add a little more pepper to this really dull story and we have tabled the following amendments: we have adopted an amendment in favour of small and mediumsized enterprises; its spirit is to reconcile the fight against tax fraud with the simplification of the administrative environment that burdens small enterprises to which this parliament, and the european union as a whole, has committed itself. that is why we say that the commission will have to present us with a report in a short time, in a matter of years, on how these measures have worked, how they have affected the administrative costs for businesses and to what extent they have been useful in combating tax fraud. we also point out that the commission should do a little more than it has done in making rules, that it should take a greater role, and we ask that it centralises the data transferred by the states involved, that it establishes a catalogue of best practices so that the administrative authorities can do better, that it establishes indicators of risk areas and areas that are not, and that it tells us who is complying and who is not. and finally, to make it easier to prosecute fraudsters, we are setting up a register of individuals who cannot avoid tax by setting up companies. i regret that the commissioner cannot answer the amendments we have tabled.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for the comments and views you have expressed during the debate. the commission will take account of the suggestions made by the european parliament in its present and future legislative proposals. i note with satisfaction that the views of the european parliament and the commission are in line with each other on the measures to be taken to improve the fight against vat fraud in the european union; i am particularly pleased to see the general support for the main objective of the first concrete commission proposal, namely to speed up the collection and exchange of information on intra-community transactions by january 2010. now, we talked about the impact study. the commission examined the effects on the costs of the companies. as a result, it is a limited cost. in order to assess more precisely the actual effects, the commission is prepared to draw up an evaluation report. the preliminary results of the study in progress, to which you refer, mrs stauner, will be known in the coming weeks and will then be validated with the member states. the commission, i am told, can only accept amendments nos 4 and 7 to the report. so you cannot accept amendments nos 4 and 7 to the report? in fact, we can accept amendments nos 4 and 7 in the report by mr garcía-margallo y marfil. i apologize for doing it this way, but i am not, as you will have noticed and as you know, the commissioner in charge, so i am much less prolific on these matters which are extremely difficult for me than on others.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission asked us for speed and we have acted quickly. the committee on legal affairs delivered its opinion in good time and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, with a rare unanimity, approved this report which we are discussing today. commissioner michel, in the notes prepared for him in the commission, in fiscal affairs, has read to us the proposals which the council adopted on 1 december, which are not exactly what we are discussing here; what we are discussing here is something else. i am not surprised that they have read to us what they intend to do, because what they have done, as i said before, is very little. the speed with which parliament has acted on this really important matter has not, as my colleagues have said, been matched by the enthusiasm of the commission or the enthusiasm of the council. a very important committee chairman once said that he asked the commission to 'de l'audace, encore de l'audace et toujours de l'audace'. the commission has a monopoly on the legislative initiative and this parliament has wanted it to be so, but having this monopoly requires that these initiatives be put on display, put forward with courage, without fear, without retreating for fear that the council will not be able to approve them. initiatives are launched, pushed and fought over, and it will be the council's responsibility to the commission and to this parliament if these proposals do not come to fruition. that was not the case. what i have told you in my first speech is the story of a degradation of ambition from the most absolute proposals to conventional measures, to a package of measures of which only two are taken, which are the most modest. i thank mr michel and i ask him to convey to the commissioner responsible my thanks for accepting some amendments, but i am really frustrated by what we have discussed here.
the next item is the statements by the council and the commission on the state of play of the negotiations on the energy and climate change package.
member of the commission. − mr president, today’s debate is very important because we are close to reaching agreement on the climate and energy package. i would like to thank the parliament and in particular mr turmes, mrs niebler, the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteurs for opinions, for a job very well done. we have been impressed by the seriousness and the constructive approach of all involved, which have been essential in enabling us to get very close to an agreement. the latest trialogue on the directive finished at 1.30 this morning. very good progress was made and it looks as though very few unresolved issues remain. this means that we are close to the goal of adopting framework legislation on renewable energy sources that will make a real difference for security of supply, europe’s competitiveness and also for sustainability. prospects are extremely good that within the next few days we will be able to confirm our agreement to set a 20% share of renewable energy in the community in 2020. we will be able to confirm how this target will be broken down into legally binding targets for member states that will provide certainty for investments. we will be able to agree on flexibility and cooperation mechanisms to enable those member states to achieve their targets by working together in cost-effective ways. we will be able to agree on a 10% target for renewable energy use in transport and on bonuses towards the targets for second-generation biofuels and for renewables used by electric cars. we will be able to agree on a world-leading set of sustainability criteria for biofuels used to achieve this target. we will be able to agree on a whole range of measures to break down administrative barriers to renewable energy penetration and ensure its access to the electricity and energy networks. two or three years ago we could not have imagined achieving such a goal. really big steps have been taken towards achieving european energy policy objectives. i mentioned cooperation mechanisms. it seems that the key unresolved issue in the negotiations is whether there should be some kind of review of these mechanisms in 2014. the commission can fully understand parliament’s concerns about such a review, taking into account the fact that one of the fundamental purposes of the directive is to create a clear and certain legal framework for investment. at the same time, we are aware that the flexibility mechanism provided for in the directive includes some untested elements. we cannot say for sure that every part of their design is quite perfect. for that reason we are not opposed as such to a review of the functioning of these mechanisms, but we do not want to question the target. however, if it is agreed that such a review should take place, i would stress the need to ensure that it should not in any way call into question the targets in the directive or its level of ambition. i am confident that the institutions will be able to find an appropriate solution to this remaining problem. looking at the process as a whole, i am proud – and i believe you should be proud – that the council and presidency are working together and have achieved a great deal. the directive will enable the whole of the union to reach the standards that so far have been maintained only by a very limited number of member states. this is good progress. it is an important step towards maintaining the eu's pioneering role in the critical task of tackling climate change and leading by example in copenhagen next year. in the context of the recently adopted energy security package, this directive also marks an important step forward in our efforts to improve the security of our energy supply. the development of the renewable energy directive has been a stimulating process of work between the institutions, in which the parliament has played its full role. we are nearing the end and it is clear from the consensus that has been achieved that the result will be an excellent one. i look forward to this process reaching its fulfilment in the coming days.
member of the commission. - the i thank you all for giving me the opportunity to speak to you today on this very important subject. the commission's proposed climate and energy package is one of the most important initiatives of the european union in recent years. the european union will not only achieve its environmental objectives with these measures, but will also be able to make a decisive contribution to the new international agreement on climate change. the adoption of the climate and energy package is essential to maintain the european union's international credibility. the debate today coincides with the international climate conference being held in poznan, poland. it is therefore inevitable that our audience today includes not only the european union but also the negotiators in poznan and the international community in general. the package will facilitate the transition of the european union to a low-carbon economy. it will also offer european industry the opportunity to gain international leadership in clean technologies and thus competitive advantages. the current economic crisis is no reason for inaction; on the contrary, it is an additional strong incentive to take action on climate change. it is precisely in times of economic recession such as the present that efforts are needed to make the consumption and production of natural resources and products more economically efficient and effective. in addition, by saving energy and improving our energy efficiency, we are strengthening the european union's energy security by reducing oil and gas imports. the move towards a low-carbon economy will encourage innovation, present new investment opportunities and create new green jobs. that is why the european union's climate change and energy package is part of the solution to the current crisis. it lays the foundation for a new green new deal that will boost the competitiveness of european industry internationally. i would like to thank the european parliament, the presidency and the council for their excellent cooperation with the commission both on the climate change and energy package and on the related proposals on cars and carbon dioxide and the fuel quality directive. the commission has already made some progress on the various points which concern us and i hope that there will be agreement at first reading. the final agreement must maintain the overall architecture of the commission's proposal and our environmental objectives and ensure a fair sharing of the efforts of the member states. i would like to mention briefly the review of the emissions trading system. in order to achieve our environmental objectives, the emissions ceiling of the trading system must ensure a 21% reduction in emissions in 2020 compared to 2005 levels. this is a key point in the commission's proposal. i would also like to say a few words on the subject of the risk of carbon leakage. the international agreement on climate change is the most effective way of tackling this risk. any solutions now agreed in the framework of the package must be both supportive of the international agreement and functional. the council of ministers, the european parliament and the commission are continuing their discussions on this subject. i am optimistic that a satisfactory solution will be found which fully respects the environmental objectives of the commission's proposal. as regards the system of sharing of effort between member states outside the trading system, the council and the european parliament have made considerable progress on a number of important issues. one of the main issues in our discussions was to find the right balance between flexible and effective implementation of our objectives. the commission has set the annual limit for the clean growth mechanism at 3%, because this is the balance between flexibility and reducing emissions within the european union. this limit, combined with the possibility of transferring emission allowances between member states, will enable countries to meet their targets. the commission believes that flexibility in achieving member states' targets must go hand in hand with a transparent and effective compliance system. this principle has already been successfully applied in the european union's emissions trading system. finally, significant progress has been made on the commission's proposal for a legal framework for carbon capture and storage. as regards the question of the financing of the ccs, which has been of particular interest to parliament, the use of the reserve for new entrants to the emissions trading system is already being discussed. this is a positive development towards finding a solution. i thank you very much and look forward to your views.
thank you very much, mr. schulz. mr borloo and mr dimas and mr piebalgs are to speak again after the speakers of the groups. and it is also planned that they will speak again at the end of the debate. and i will also say one thing to you, mr schulz: the european parliament does not adjust the agenda of its plenary sessions to the agendas of those who participate in them; it is the agendas of those who participate in the plenary sessions that must be adjusted to the agenda of the european parliament. you have the floor, in the name of the people's party... (protests) the matter is settled, mr schulz. (protests)
i have just said that parliament does not adjust its agenda to the incidences of the agendas of those who participate in it; neither the dignity of the house permits it, nor does respect between institutions advise it. i have therefore heard your speeches on points of order and i give the interpretation i have just explained to you. mr borloo will speak after the groups; mr borloo will speak again at the end of the speech.
the house is sovereign, and as such i shall put this matter to the vote. we shall put to the vote whether to suspend the sitting of parliament until mr borloo arrives. (parliament adopted the proposal)
mr president, first of all i would like to thank all those who have spoken, from the commission to the presidency and my colleagues in parliament, for the work they have done and for the goodwill with which they have tackled the problem. i want to start by making four considerations that i think are fundamental to tackling the problem. the first is that coal consumption is increasing, for obvious reasons, because of the development of large areas of the planet that did not exist before. secondly, that as a consequence of this increased coal consumption, co2 emissions are increasing. thirdly, we must not forget that the competitiveness of industries is now measured globally. and fourthly, and not least importantly, we must never forget that when we talk about the economy we are talking, above all, about people. because if the economy is good, people's well-being is good, and if it's not, the opposite is true. the last two considerations lead to the need not to damage unnecessarily the competitiveness of european industry at a time of particular difficulty and when there are no international rules or requirements applicable to the same industries elsewhere in the world. the first two require a realistic, viable and therefore effective international agreement involving the countries which are major emitters of co2 and, therefore, major consumers of coal. without such an agreement, there will be no efficiency in the ultimate objective of reducing co2 emissions. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency and the commission, leadership is basically about offering formulas that lead to the achievement of objectives. the rest is nothing more than fantasy.
in writing. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the approval of this energy-climate change package must be our cover letter to send a very clear signal to the whole world in order to conclude an ambitious agreement next year in copenhagen. i fully agree with commissioner dimas that the financial crisis has shown how foolish it is not to take clear warning signs seriously. with climate change, we cannot afford to repeat that mistake if we want to prevent dangerous and possibly catastrophic economic and social consequences in the coming decades. we must be responsible and make courageous decisions to assume a clean and efficient energy model, as well as provide the necessary tools that allow citizens to become aware and act on climate change. the time has come. i therefore publicly ask for the support of this house and the member states for this legislative package at the next partsession, which will certainly enable us to meet this important challenge before us.
in writing. - as the president of the world bank pointed out, malnutrition problems are 'the forgotten millennium development goal'. the eu should take greater account of financing the needs of the world food programme; working between different agencies to assess the needs of countries; helping small farmers (short-term but also analysing the volatility of food prices in the long term); long-term challenges in the sphere of production and productivity; unaddressed research plans and the need to find risk management solutions (such as financial derivatives related to droughts).
in writing. - there is very good evidence that between 1970 and 1995 the european wintering cormorant population in inland waters increased from less than 10 000 to around 400 000. some now say that more than a million cormorants winter in european inland waters, although other researchers call this figure somewhat exaggerated. in reply to a written question, commissioner dimas announced the preparation of an action plan for the mediterranean mound cormorant, although i do not think that the methods of repelling birds, including the carbide cannons, which are among the various measures being taken in this area, are sufficiently well defined.
mr president, exactly one year ago, the venezuelan people rejected in a referendum hugo chávez's extension of his presidential term as laid down in the venezuelan constitution. well, hugo chávez, ignoring what the sovereign people decided democratically, has announced that he will change the laws in order to perpetuate himself in power. with this, hugo chávez proves once again that he is not a democratic president but a caudillo, a coup dictator whose objective is to turn all of venezuela into his private ranch and, in this way, continue to threaten, insult and attack the opposition and dissent, as well as his intention to continue to dynamite freedom of expression, closing media outlets as he did with radio caracas televisión. this european parliament must condemn and reject in the strongest possible terms the tricks and ruses that hugo chávez is trying to use to keep his presidency and we encourage venezuelan society to defend the values of democracy and freedom, which are the antithesis of what hugo chávez says and does.
ladies and gentlemen, it is after six o'clock and, in accordance with the agenda, we close this item to move on to the next.
the following is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on employment and social affairs on the council's common position with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2003/88/ec on certain aspects of the organisation of working time (10597/2/2008 c6-0324/2008 2004/0209 ((cod)) (rapporteur: mr alejandro cercas) (a6-0440/2008).
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, madam minister, the revision of the directive on the organisation of working time is a matter of concern to millions of europeans. we think the council's proposal is a huge political and legal mistake. we often wonder about the disillusionment of citizens with our institutions, our elections or our political agenda. today we have a clear explanation: you need only see the enormous gap between the council's proposals and the views of three million doctors and all the european trade unions on behalf of 150 million workers. i hope that you will not see this 'opposition of parliament' as a setback, but as an opportunity to reconnect with the concerns of the citizens and for people to see that when we talk about the social dimension of europe, we do not use false words and false promises. the desire for the 48-hour day is very old: it was promised in the treaty of versailles, the first ilo convention. the aspiration to work to live and not live to work made europe a virtuous circle of productivity improvements accompanied by more leisure time for workers. you can't go back on this paradigm. fears of globalisation or attempts to achieve comparative advantage seem to change the minds of the institutions and make them forget that we will only win the battle of excellence. the council's position is the opposite of that of parliament. we believe that there are good reasons for taking parliament's opinion into account. first, because the 'opt-out' violates the principles and the letter of the treaty. secondly, because the abandonment of the rule is not a flexibility of the rule; it is simply the complete annulment of the law and the emptying of international conventions and standards and the return of industrial relations to the 19th century. thirdly, because the personal, individual abrogation of rights is a sure formula for throwing the weakest into the most inhuman situations of exploitation. and finally, because allowing member states to derogate from european law at national level is to open the way to social dumping between our states. we have a lot of research to show how the use of opt-outs has caused enormous damage to the health and safety of workers. the same studies show how difficult it is for women to have jobs and careers and how difficult it is to reconcile work and professional life. that is why this proposal for a directive is worse than the current directive. in future, the opt-out would not be a singular and temporary exception but a general rule, permanent and, moreover, baptized with the blessed waters of freedom and social progress. the other major discrepancy concerns the rights of health workers. failure to recognize their watch times is truly an unlimited assault on those who care for the health and safety of millions of workers. these misgivings are accompanied by the weakening of the right to compensatory breaks after the shift. we have tried to reach an agreement with the council and to bring a compromise solution to this house, but it has not been possible. you in the council do not want to negotiate and you want us to go ahead with your common position without moving a comma. i hope that on wednesday this parliament will put a stop to these council demands and that we will express to the whole of europe that this parliament is alive and committed to the further building of europe without forgetting the social dimension and the rights of doctors, workers, women and european citizens. and i hope that, with the support of the commission and its good offices, we can then start a conciliation and build an acceptable transaction between the two arms of the legislature, seeking to ensure that flexicurity and work-life balance are taken seriously by the council. we have a chance. let us use it to bridge the enormous gap between us and the citizens of europe. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, commissioner, let me begin by quoting from your document in presenting the renewed social agenda. it reads as follows: 'the commission calls on member states to set an example by ratifying and implementing ilo conventions.' and today we are debating a directive which is intended to go against those criteria, allowing member states to regulate working hours up to 60 or 65 hours on a quarterly average. is that consistent, commissioner? can we legislate against our own recommendations? the directive aims to establish minimum provisions to ensure the health and safety of workers by means of two instruments: rest periods and time limits. it contains exceptions for both cases, but we are not talking about exceptions, commissioner, as you have said. i'm not sure. we are simply talking about derogations from one of the fundamental elements of the directive. this is not justified by flexibility. an increase in working hours cannot be confused with the flexibility that firms and workers need. the directive will be given, and very broadly, to take account of seasonal patterns, production peaks and the requirements of certain activities. what is good for everyone, commissioner, is to achieve the objective of 'flexicurity', that is to say, to achieve a balance between personal, family and work life. this requires working towards a culture of cooperation and transparency and allowing collective autonomy to play its part in the organisation of working time. mr president, when the council adopted its common position in september, it was a bad day for the social dialogue. i am convinced that if the collective autonomy as a source of the organization and organization of working time had been respected, we would now have an agreement. i hope that the day of the vote, when we all face up to our responsibilities, can be a good day for all. it is good to reform but also to preserve what unites us more and divides us less, what strengthens europe and what can make social europe rise to the challenge it faces, stronger, moving forward hand in hand in economic progress and social progress which, separately, cannot survive.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the working time directive is of course rich in symbols and raises questions of principle: workers' free choice in exchange for protection of their health and safety. that is precisely where we have the difficulty of reaching agreement. as i have already said, france has long fought the opt-out. we have, however, agreed on a common position. why would you do that? because the directive is not intended to organize a reduction in rights, a social regression. the commission is proposing to allow member states to treat the hours of watch in a specific way, taking into account the inactive periods it involves. all the member states had their own particular ways of dealing with these hours of watch and the council has no other intention than to maintain the status quo, the balances which are being made fragile by the court's judgments. secondly, on opt-out, the common position improves the rights of the workers concerned where the opt-out has been implemented. there is of course no obligation to use this derogation. the opt-out has been in place without guarantee since 1993. the council's position introduces safeguards, as mrs lynne has pointed out. i hope that pragmatism will prevail. the common position does not imply that anyone should abandon his principles or convictions. today, on behalf of the council, the french presidency is telling you that the common position is probably the best compromise for the revision of the directive, given the balance of power between member states and the urgency of finding a solution on guard time. that, ladies and gentlemen, is what i wanted to say to complete my introductory remarks.
member of the commission. - i can agree with mrs létard on the depth and interest of the debate. this debate has been on the most important issues and i think it is now up to parliament to decide and then it will be clear what the framework will be for any further negotiations. i would just like to say that since there were some opinions in the debate that do not correspond to reality, it might be good to mention some basic facts in a purely factual way. the working time directive is currently in force. this working time directive states that it is possible for individual member states to introduce an opt-out. this opt-out is currently applied by 15 member states. so it's not a situation that's emerging, it's a given reality in a way. the reason for the new directive was a certain pressure following the court of first instance's judgment in simap and jaeger, because the moment of that judgment put a number of systems which traditionally use a large amount of standby time in a very difficult situation. i would also point out that the effects of the standby or standby arrangements on the different systems in the different member states vary in different ways, and in particular those member states which are smaller in population and do not have a large capacity to recruit new labour from outside may have relatively significant problems. this is why the debate is so complex, because on the one hand it concerns worker protection and protection by means of some regulation of working time, and on the other hand it concerns some particularly sensitive systems such as health care and such as various emergency systems such as firefighters and similar systems. every decision has consequences, and i think that right now we have a great opportunity to make progress. this progress will be the result of debate in all the institutions, of cooperation and debate, and one of the most important steps along the way will be the vote by parliament on 17 december this year.
the rapporteur. - first of all, i would like to thank all my colleagues from all the groups, because i believe that there is a large majority in this house who say that men are not machines, that people and their rights come first, and then we can talk about other things, but first of all about their health, their safety, their family life. secondly, welcome the council and the commission to the field of negotiation. late, but better late than never. and watch out for the traps. this directive, which comes from your common position, this opt-out is not like the one of 1993, which was temporary, conditional and very unique. fifteen countries, the commissioner said. no, one general and several with small "opt-out". and you propose that it should be forever and for everyone, and that it should divide europe into those who want to have long days and those who do not want to have long days. so we do not want what was temporary and exceptional to become perpetual and normal, because it is not normal for people to work every week of the year and every year of their lives without seeing their families, without being able to fulfil their civic obligations. i believe there are facts that are realities. that workers and doctors are against this directive, mr bushill-matthews, is evidence, not opinion. i have not spoken to 160 million workers or to four million doctors, but i have spoken to their representative organizations. some may agree with you, but i say that the vast majority are against you, because your organizations - all of them without exception - are against what you say. finally, as i said at the beginning of my speech, and i repeat it, wednesday will be a very important day for citizens to re-create in europe and to believe that these institutions are not a series of heartless politicians who only think about the economy or that we are bureaucrats who live in a world apart. we are with the people, we are with their rights and on the 17th social europe will come out stronger. and then we'll negotiate. we'll negotiate on equal terms. (applause) i would like to thank
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, madam rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency welcomes the importance attached by the european parliament to the subject of toy safety, particularly during the festive period at the end of the year. it is necessary that we can trust the safety of toys as they are products for children. for this reason, the council gave particular priority to the commission's proposal presented at the end of january 2008, which aims to strengthen security while preserving free movement in the internal market. the toy market, by virtue of its dynamism, capacity for innovation and structure, is particularly sensitive and complex and the co-legislators had to find a balanced approach, which guarantees the safety of toys without raising prices and which does not impose on manufacturers and importers of serious toys overly burdensome obligations. recently, in addition to prices and innovation, new factors have emerged as determinants for the consumer. the protection of the environment and the absence of substances with any toxicity or allergenic risk were at the heart of the public debate. this has become evident since some firms have decided to withdraw from the market or recall products that may not have been completely safe. in this spirit, the european union has followed an approach to technical harmonisation since the 1980s which aims to guarantee the free movement of products within the internal market while establishing high levels of safety so that only compliant products can circulate within it. this conformity is guaranteed by the ce marking. toys, like 80% of products in circulation in the union, are subject to this approach to technical harmonization, which is organized according to the well-known architecture: european legislation, in this case the proposal for new directives, establishes essential safety requirements, which are translated and technically refined into standards. the commission also prepares, with the member states, documents to guide the implementation of community law. it is this overall architecture that would be strengthened by the adoption of the proposal as amended by the co-legislators. the reassessment of the safety of toys under these new legislative standards is symbolic of the commitment of the co-legislators to consider this area as a priority since it is the first sectoral application of these horizontal provisions. the text negotiated between the institutions, which is supported by a large majority of the member states and is therefore acceptable to the council, not only strengthens market surveillance but also a number of essential safety requirements, including provisions to limit the potential chemical hazards in toys. the provisions on carcinogens and toxic substances were further strengthened during the negotiations between the co-legislators in order to minimise or eliminate these substances altogether, in particular for all accessible parts of toys, and also to strengthen the precautions regarding possible reactions when toys are put into the mouth, which is not lacking by consumers of these products. in addition, provisions to eliminate the risk of asphyxiation by strangulation or suffocation from toys and their parts have been clarified and strengthened. similarly, in order to enable consumers' parents to make informed choices, warnings about the risks that toys may pose and the minimum or maximum age limits for users have also been strengthened and will need to be made available, before purchase, to all consumers who make a purchase, including online. the architecture of the community system is maintained as regards the ability of products to comply with the essential safety requirements; where a european standard exists, manufacturers may themselves declare their toys to be in conformity and affix the ce marking. of course, if this is done incorrectly, all economic operators have obligations to fulfil, each at his level, in the supply chain, and the market surveillance authorities of the member states will be there to enforce compliance or to sanction non-compliance. in the absence of european standards, third party certification is provided to ensure a high level of safety. the risk of abuse of the ce marking is not excluded by our architecture, but thanks to the vigilance of the market surveillance authorities and the increased cooperation between them at european level, the risk will be reduced. finally, the precautionary principle and the ability to adapt to new risks, if identified as such, are provided for in the directive. the french presidency therefore welcomes the good cooperation with the european parliament throughout the negotiations on this important issue and also thanks, on behalf of the council, all those in the three institutions who contributed to this good result which should enable us to conclude an agreement at first reading.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the second half of 2007, we were faced with recalls by a major toy manufacturer which had taken defective products off the market on its own initiative. however, this has created uncertainty. even though we all know that no one can guarantee the safety of the products we use every day, citizens rightly expect that their children not only enjoy playing with them, but that their toys are safe. in its resolution on the safety of toys of 26 september 2007, the european parliament called on the commission to launch without delay a revised toy directive containing effective, efficient and detailed product safety requirements. in january 2008, the commission put forward its proposal and i am very pleased that today - just eleven months later and indeed just in time for christmas - we have a new eu law that brings far-reaching improvements to the safety of toys. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs thyssen, very warmly for her successful work. i also thank mrs mccarthy for her great commitment to the discussions with the presidency and the commission. i thank the french presidency for the great enthusiasm with which it has brought this matter before the council. the new european toy directive is making toys safer in europe. it is based on the concept that toy safety is a shared responsibility of all stakeholders with different priorities. first of all, the economic actors are responsible: manufacturers, importers and traders. but at the same time, the proposal contains far-reaching rules for the surveillance authorities, both at the eu's external borders and on the markets of the member states. the directive does not, of course, exempt the guardians of children from responsibility. they too have a responsibility to make sure that children play safely. the new rules on safety requirements for toys are strict. this is particularly true of the use of chemicals in toys. the directive sets new standards in this area. the directive is the only law in the world which explicitly prohibits carcinogens or substances which may affect reproduction or cause genetic changes. these substances may only be used if their safety has been clearly demonstrated by scientific research. the new directive also contains the lowest limits for toxic substances such as lead or mercury that apply worldwide. allergenic fragrances are also prohibited. the directive thus goes even further than the rules on cosmetics. in addition to the chemicals chapter, the directive contains a number of other enhanced safety requirements for design and production. this applies in particular to rules to prevent the risk of suffocation from small parts - this is an acute risk for children, which is now being counteracted even more effectively than before. we have also included rules on food in toys in the directive for the first time. in future, toy manufacturers will have a greater responsibility for conformity assessment. they must carry out a thorough examination of all the risks that a toy may entail, regardless of where the toy is produced. this analysis shall be documented in detail and provided to market surveillance authorities upon request. the obligations of toy importers will be tightened. this is particularly important because a large proportion of toys are imported into the european union. importers must verify that the manufacturers have carried out the conformity assessment of the toy correctly and, where appropriate, carry out sampling themselves. the directive provides for mandatory third party testing only in the absence of harmonised european standards. we have discussed third party certification in detail, weighing all the advantages and disadvantages. not every toy that is put on the market in europe can be examined. sampling is possible, but expensive. the commission considers that an audit by a private certification body would entail costs that cannot be justified by an increased level of security. this is particularly true for small and medium-sized enterprises. in its review of the application of the directive, the commission will pay particular attention to the rules on conformity assessment. the commission will take account of the member states' experience in market surveillance and report to parliament. the commission will make a statement to that effect in the council minutes. in addition to increased obligations on economic operators, the directive contains very detailed rules on how member states are to carry out market surveillance, following on from the single market package of july this year. this applies both to proper customs controls at the external borders and to inspections in the member states. a well-functioning market surveillance is a very important element of the directive. only if the strict design and production requirements are sufficiently monitored by impartial public bodies can the overall concept of european toy safety be taken into account. the text now before us is an example of the ability of the european institutions to put in place, in a short time, good, far-reaching european legislation that is unique in the world. i think we have created a good basis for safe toys in europe!
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal. - it is true that some steps have been taken towards the safety of toys. however, we felt that these steps could have been much bigger. we don't understand how substances like lead, mercury or cadmium can remain inside toys. we have lost an opportunity to ban these substances, which will continue to accumulate in the small bodies of europe's children and girls, with the many health problems they cause. at the same time, we would like to point out another problem with this directive, which does not set limit values in decibels for the noise of toys. noise is a major pollution affecting children and the elderly, and many toys make too much noise. i ask the commission to take a position on this matter - and the council too - and to commit itself to submitting to parliament as soon as possible limit values for noise, which also affects the bodies of our children.
vice-president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. today we are taking a big step towards a single market for defence products. at the same time, we shall not prejudice the right of each member state to decide on its own export policy in this sensitive area. this is the only possible solution to a very difficult problem, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs rühle, very specifically for her intensive and efficient work. i also want to thank the shadow reporters who have played a big part in today's success. i would also like to thank the french and slovenian presidencies for the rapid progress they have made in the negotiations in the council. it is truly remarkable that such a difficult proposal can be decided on today, after just over a year. who would have thought ten years ago, when the commission first put forward the idea of an internal market for defence products, that they would actually succeed? i don't think most people believed that. but perseverance paid off. we're on the verge of a breakthrough. the member states will no longer regard other member states as third countries in their arms exports, but as partners. a clear and politically important commitment to european integration. the economic importance should not be underestimated either. taxpayers' money will be used more efficiently in the future, as specialisation will replace the costly duplication of labour that is currently the norm. our industry will become more competitive internationally. this is particularly true for small and mediumsized enterprises, whose access to this market will be facilitated by clearer and more predictable rules. finally, our armed forces in the member states will also have more security of supply and more choice in the quality of their armaments, which is not a problem if they can make demands within the european union, and this should increase the incentive to buy european goods rather than non-european goods. i also expect a gain in security for all of us. we are actually cutting down on intra-community controls, which gives member states additional resources to strengthen export controls in third countries. i would point out what mrs rühle has just said about the current practice, and i agree with her fully that more control is appropriate here. many people have worked hard for this result, and today we achieve it together. i thank you all very much for this.
on behalf of the pse group. i think that the rapporteur and the speakers who have preceded me have highlighted the characteristics of this proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council. it is a recognition that armaments and ammunition are also part of the internal market, albeit with certain limitations. these are not ordinary goods, they are not candy, they are not entertainment objects, but they are objects that require precise control. there are of course limitations in the treaty itself - articles 30 and 296 - which give the states important responsibilities in this area. the fact that we have a common market does not prevent states from being obliged to comply with safety standards and from having the right to apply them when their own safety is threatened. the work done in the committee on legal affairs and in the committees responsible for delivering opinions which have collaborated with it, in agreement with the council, under the expert guidance of the rapporteur, mrs rühle, has been very positive. i think that the text we have tabled today is a fairly balanced text. in the main, although on paper there seem to be many amendments, today we are limited to one amendment - amendment no 63, which is the one that reflects the spirit of the transaction - and in that amendment you can see a coherent text and articulation that will allow this whole market to function. mr toubon has stressed that this is in relation to other international texts. for example, the adoption this month of the oslo convention - the signing of the oslo convention - on the prohibition of cluster munitions, also the convention on the limitation of antipersonnel mines and a whole series of international agreements and even european union rules aimed at limiting the use of weapons. i believe that our model is not the model of the free movement of arms at any time but a regulated market, controlled by the states and also controlled, from now on, by the institutions of the european union itself.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, madam vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, bravo to the french presidency. president sarkozy has been a musketeer for europe, in the best french tradition, and has updated the musketeers' motto by saying that the world needs a strong europe and that europe is not strong if it is divided. i would add one more thing, and that is that europe works better with the community method, and i think that president sarkozy is coming to understand this and is adopting it. mr president, i have been in the european parliament for 22 years. it is the first time that i have seen the presidents of the three institutions - the council, the commission and parliament - give a serious warning to the incoming presidency. the czech government has postponed ratification of the treaty of lisbon. in addition, we must add that there will be no new presidency of a euro country until 2010. i believe that continuity is very important for the future of the french presidency, and i appeal to the czech government to take responsibility in this respect.
mr president, we all agree that the present crisis is much more serious and much deeper than had been anticipated: extraordinary times call for exceptional action, and the french presidency has been able to do that. it is now up to us, and above all to parliament and the commission, to ensure that this extraordinary aid does not cause irreversible collateral damage to the european architecture. firstly, in competition policy. we are in a time of war. there are laws of war, but even in wartime there is the geneva convention, and that certainly does not prevent banks recapitalised by the state from taking advantage of this aid to buy other banks, and the minister knows what i mean. secondly, the stability pact, which i consider to be a key element in the european architecture. we are facing a fiscal effort which i applaud, but i do not applaud the fact that the public treasury is considered a kind of piñata which can be smashed with eyes closed so that the money falls where it is due. this is not a marshall plan that uncle sam pays for, this is an economic recovery plan that the taxpayers of tomorrow are going to have to pay for. let us not forget, then, that today's debts are tomorrow's taxes. the criterion here is not that the one who spends the most is better but the one who spends the most wisely. the only criterion for whether it is spent well or better is whether it helps to recover from the economic crisis and, fundamentally, to create jobs. i cannot therefore share mr rasmussen's view that the smartest in the class are those who have rushed to spend the most. finally, there is the issue of financial stability, to which the president of the republic referred. i agree that we need to reform, we need to review the regulatory framework and we need to make a huge effort to have more cooperation between european supervisors, until we get to the single european economic supervisor.
president of the council. - mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to address the european parliament for the first time. you know that i come from the french national parliament, the temple of french democracy, so it is a great honour to speak before the temple of european democracy. it is late, as you said, mr president, so i will confine myself to four points on the four main types of intervention that have been made previously, both on the economy, on the climate package, on political issues and finally on the treaty. on the economic front, i believe that the european union has shown that it is capable of taking up its responsibilities and, in the face of a major economic crisis affecting all our citizens, of implementing a recovery plan that protects workers, protects our industry and makes it possible to cope with the crisis. i would like to say a few words to mrs koch-mehrin: we must support european industry and we must also show solidarity between european states. this is very important. on the financial crisis, mr goebbels has said very well that we need better economic coordination, but also safer rules on banking regulation. i think we will have to move in that direction next year. some criticism was voiced, notably by mrs beres and also, just now, by president schulz. "war is zu spät?" is the question. i think the most important thing is that we have managed to react. in 2007, few observers saw the crisis coming. maybe sooner would have been better. the important thing is to have acted, madame bérès. on the strictly financial answer which has been raised by mr titley and mr duff, i entirely agree with them. the financial crisis is not behind us and we must keep in mind that nothing will be solved until everything has been solved. i think we must remain very cautious for next year, we must keep the initiative and we must impose the necessary financial rules. on the climate package, i will move quickly, because the minister of state, jean-louis borloo, who has done an exceptional job with his secretary of state, nathalie kosciusko-morizet, will answer you more this afternoon, but i would like to thank mrs sudre, mr krasts, mr langen, mr szejna and also mrs doyle, who has contributed a lot to the work on this climate. i would like to thank them for their positive assessment of this plan. i believe that this climate plan is the most important plan since kyoto and, above all, that it makes europe an exemplary continent before the copenhagen conference. it is true that not everything is settled on the political issues, particularly russia and georgia. but to ask the european union to settle everything in one of the most complicated regions of the world, the caucasus region, i think is asking too much. the main thing is done. and the most important thing is peace. this is the essential thing for this region and it is the essential thing for the european union because the european union is first and foremost peace. and i must say that as a european citizen i was particularly proud that the president of the republic, the french presidency, took the initiative, together with all the european countries, to impose peace where there could have been war. and i say this to echo what mr cavada or mrs andrikiené have said, it seems to me very important, as it seems to me important that the european stability force, which is present today in georgia, takes its full place and defends its responsibilities. i would like to say that the commission has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area in the future. firstly, because these are tangible results. it's not paper, it's soldiers who are on the ground, who are present and who guarantee the stability of the territory. and these are good results also because they have been achieved in close coordination with nato. we must stop pitting european defence against nato. the two are complementary, we need an autonomous european defence, just as we need a nato that takes its place. on the question of turkey, which was raised by mr swoboda, the process is naturally continuing, in accordance with what has been established by the european rules. we'll have a cag on this on friday, we'll go over the relevant chapters. i believe that all this is proceeding as agreed by all the european countries. the middle east was raised by several speakers, including mrs hybášková and mrs de keyser. this is a major conflict. this is probably the crux of all the violence in the near and middle east, and the european union has a responsibility to exercise because it is the first donor, the first supplier of aid to the palestinian territories and therefore it must, in turn, be able to assume its responsibilities. i believe that if we can move in this direction with all the european countries, we will be up to the standards that the middle east, israel and the palestinian territories can expect from us, and if we can bring peace and stability where there is violence, europe will have played its part. on the question of the treaty, to conclude on the latter point, mrs sinnott has said very well that we need ireland in europe. we also need to respect the democratic choice that has been made by the irish people and therefore give a chance to democratic expression again. there is no other way to adopt the treaty. we need, as mr brok said, the treaty of lisbon. "we need the treaty of lisbon. there is no doubt about it". i'm convinced of it. we also need to move forward, with a lot of method, a lot of openness, a lot of dialogue, to allow the irish people to have their say. i think that is absolutely essential. mr corbett, mr burke, you have expressed some doubts about this, and that is understandable. a referendum is always a gamble. and you are right: we should not underestimate the political difficulties. on the other hand, however, we should not underestimate our willingness to help the irish people, because in the end the choice will remain in the hands of the irish people. the number of commissioners, which was mentioned by mr leinen amongst others, will be discussed again later this afternoon. i don't think that's the most important question. the most important question is twofold. first of all, each nation must feel that it is properly represented in this commission, and if we have to evolve to achieve this feeling, then let us evolve. i believe the decision that has been taken is the right one. and the second important thing is, of course, as the president of the republic has said on several occasions, that the commission be led with the necessary firmness, that there be a strong president, because that too will guarantee the legitimacy of the commission. "this is now the task". i think that's what mr. burke said earlier. well, we have to move in that direction. i would like to say a few words in response to the speeches that have been made. i also want to take this opportunity to tell you that it is a great honor for me to have this office entrusted to me by the president of the republic. i want to tell you that i am at your complete disposal - morning, noon and evening - to work hand in hand with the european parliament, which now occupies an essential place not only in our institutions but also in the hearts of our fellow citizens. european democracy will be built with you. (applause) thank you very much.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i should like to say thank you for this very interesting debate – at least most of the time i found it very interesting – and i think we have heard the most relevant arguments being presented. i will restrict myself to just making a few telegrammatic comments and i will mention a few things that i did not hear in the debate. firstly, i would like to say that, no, the commission is not a secretariat for the council. i deny that is the case. do not confuse the fact that we have been working very closely with the french presidency – we have had good cooperation with the french presidency – with our being a secretariat. by presenting the energy package, the climate package, the economic recovery plan, being ambitious and taking the initiative, we have proven that we are not a secretariat but a commission with the right of initiative, and we will continue to act in that way. concerning the lisbon treaty: i can add to the arguments being presented here that i think that the council – with the commission, of course – has been presented with a long list of the problematic issues of concern to the irish people so the concerns of the irish people can be respected. we have been able to study that in detail. together we have looked at solutions, and the council, as you know, has now agreed to take a decision on the number of commissioners. i have always advocated having one commissioner per member state, even though i have been loyal to the position of the commission. to put it simply, i think that what you might lose in efficiency – and i am not so sure that you would lose something in efficiency, for instance i think the french government has about 33 members – you win in legitimacy. we need legitimacy more than ever and it is very important that we keep a commissioner per member state. i welcome this decision. but we have also gone through the rest of the list of concerns and there are ways to address these. what we will contribute is to make sure that as soon as possible we can sign a memorandum of understanding with the irish government on how to provide better information. that includes making sure that young people and women in ireland are able to form their own opinions and that they can say that they have at least had a chance to get all the information necessary. that is what we will contribute in the near future. i did not hear any arguments about an energy package also offering a number of opportunities for europe. i think that investing in more energy-efficient industries or an electricity grid offers us fantastic opportunities, not only to create jobs and bridge the recession but also for sustainable development. i think that this cannot be repeated enough. we should be the ones to point to the european value added of acting together now. some of you mentioned poor countries and the developing world, because we must not forget that they are the first victims and are the ones most affected by this. we must not give up on our target to implement the millennium development goals and we must not lose sight of the rest of the world when we are busy trying to fight recession and the problems arising from the economic crisis. let me add that a little piece of history has been written during the french presidency. with vice-president vidal-quadras and mr jouyet, we were able to sign a partnership on communication, an agreement to communicate in partnership with the member states, the european parliament and the commission. this will be a valuable tool and we have to use it first and foremost to make sure we mobilise the voters now that the european elections are coming up. i must say how much i have appreciated working with both mr vidal-quadras and mr jouyet, and i am sure that we will also achieve good cooperation for the future. i think all the praise lavished on the french presidency is because we appreciate true leadership, engaged leadership, when we see it. even though we do not belong to the same political family, we prefer people who are clear about their values, who are willing to put a lot of energy and their own ideas into the debate about europe, and we see somebody defending europe in all of this. this is what we appreciate and value. finally, let me wish you all a merry christmas and a happy new year.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. - madam president, i too welcome the conclusion of this negotiation on the renewable energy directive. we believe that, from the point of view of the transport sector in particular, a clear direction has been set, a trend which the industry was calling for in terms of legal certainty, and that we have been able to set the conditions and diversify sufficiently so that not only biofuels but also other aspects such as hydrogen or electricity from renewable sources are part of the 'mix' needed to reach the 20% and 10% targets within that 20% target. i think it is fundamental and i think it is very important to introduce sustainability criteria, of course environmental criteria, with regard to land use and the impact on third countries, but i also think it is fundamental, and i ask the commission to be particularly sensitive in this respect, to introduce social criteria, which are precisely those which citizens are asking us to adopt at this time of recession and of great questions. i also believe that new legislative proposals can help to deepen and improve the trend in the area of review clauses, and that this common format will also help the member states to achieve the objectives we have set for ourselves in the national action plans. finally, i would like to ask the commission what it has planned for the infrastructures and logistics of distribution and the ... )
we must recognize, ladies and gentlemen, that in today's debate and tomorrow's vote there is a certain bittersweet flavour, lights and shadows in the house. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am pleased to say that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. and i am convinced that the result obtained after these marathon negotiations can be said to be satisfactory. this is a joint debate, of the whole package, but we are now talking about the renewable energy directive, and on this particular subject i would like to highlight a few things. firstly, the success of maintaining 10% biofuels, because in europe, if we have a problem, it is the security of supply. national support schemes, which are also ongoing, have been very successful in certain member states, in particular in spain. so the fact that they are still there is also very good news to me. the flexibility mechanisms, to make it easier for those member states with less potential to be part of this ambitious project to boost renewable energies, by combining their efforts with those member states that do have great potential, is also a very positive contribution. and certainly with this renewable energy directive, european industry is getting a very strong, very clear message that it is going to be driven to act with confidence, with certainty; this opens up great business opportunities and job creation, both in europe and globally. in short, this legislative package opens up a new era, an era of commitment to environmental quality, of a dimension and a scope ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, this report is undoubtedly a very important step towards a more secure, more competitive and more sustainable energy system. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work in getting parliament to take the lead in this process. i regret, however, that the review clause was maintained in 2014. it is true that safeguards have been introduced to ensure that it does not affect either the 20% target or the control of member states over their national support systems, but i do not think they are sufficient. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet the needs of the world market. as a parliament we must be vigilant so that there is no slackening in the achievement of the objectives and also encourage the union to promote the enormous potential of renewable energies abroad. we therefore welcome the initiative to set up an international renewable energy agency to promote renewable energy outside europe.
thank you and congratulations, mr president, on the success of this debate and the vote tomorrow. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
the following is the report by avril doyle, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec to improve and extend the community scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading (com ((2008) 0016 c6-0043/2008 2008/0013 ((cod)) (a6-0406/2008).
madam president, mr dimas, mr borloo, colleagues, it is time to act. the legislative package we are discussing allows us to do that and, although the result of this legislative package is not exceptional, we should be reasonably satisfied. if it is approved tomorrow, it will provide a key signal to other countries that the european union is committed and leading the fight against climate change. addressing this climate change and the transition to a low-carbon and low-consumption society is a key global priority and this legislation will allow for the planning of future investments that reduce emissions, especially through energy efficiency and the phasing out of those obsolete industries that emit large amounts of co2. i would like to thank all those - especially mrs doyle - who have allowed us to be here at this moment congratulating ourselves and having a legislative package which i hope we will pass tomorrow.
madam president, commissioner, this proposal was put forward by the commission over a year ago with really very ambitious objectives. at the same time, there have been financial convulsions in the world which seemed to be going to wreck these measures, but finally a balanced agreement has been reached, which satisfies almost no one 100%, but which is a good agreement that maintains the final objectives and, at the same time, makes the means of achieving them more affordable for companies. we must therefore thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mrs doyle, the rapporteurs of the other political groups and the french presidency in particular, because their work has led to a good result for all. i hope that in the near future circumstances will allow us to be much more ambitious and that other countries will also join this crusade against climate change that we want to see in europe.
president of the council. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs corbey, on a very complex technical work, but one which is absolutely essential for the future of broadcasting. a compromise has been found on the 6+4, if i may put it rather simply. six immediately binding and four as part of a meeting clause. there are also the advances, notably on the sustainability of biofuels in the enr directive itself, which seemed to us to be essential and minimal. but i think we have reached a very good compromise, and i would also like to thank the commission for that.
member of the commission. - the the commission welcomes the agreement on the fuel quality directive, which retains the main elements of the commission's proposal and represents a major step forward in the field of environmental protection. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mrs dorette corbey, for her role in reaching the final agreement. a key element of the compromise agreement is the obligation on energy suppliers to reduce greenhouse gas emissions over the entire life cycle of fuels. this is an important contribution to our climate policy. it will promote technological progress and is the first of the complementary measures under approval under the revised strategy on carbon dioxide emissions from cars. by incorporating sustainability criteria for biofuels, we will not only provide incentives for the use of those biofuels that have the best greenhouse gas emission performance, but at the same time avoid serious environmental risks associated with their production. in addition, the compromise agreement will reduce emissions of pollutants, in particular by lowering the limits for sulphur and poly-aromatic hydrocarbons, facilitate the use of ethanol, improve consumer information and set a limit for the additional mmt. in short, the compromise agreement is part of our traditional policy of controlling emissions of pollutants into the air and is an important step forward in our climate policy. i therefore urge you to vote in favour of the agreement tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good one, and i would like to thank him for his work on the proposal for a directive on the use of biofuels. this is precisely what did not pass the vote in the committee on the environment, and this was a matter of concern to many of us. today we have an agreement on the table which softens the application of article 7a and which resumes the vapour pressure waiver, of course tightening the conditions for access to the exception and which, like the rest of this climate package, does not satisfy everyone 100% but is nevertheless acceptable to everyone. i would like to thank mrs corbey for her excellent work and her receptivity to solving problems, and i would also like to thank mr turmes and, of course, the french presidency, which has also made a great show of its effectiveness here.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr guido sacconi for his immense patience and astute intelligence in unblocking not only a regulation which is crucial for the environment, the economy, employment and industry, but also in unblocking with this regulation the whole package on energy and climate change, which really depended on this philosopher's stone. i would like to congratulate you and congratulate us on having achieved a fundamental balance between sticks and carrots and, above all, on having succeeded in showing the carrots needed to drive such a complex text. the report promotes eco-innovations linked to the reduction of co2 emissions, supports research and innovation to reduce emissions and also encourages the biofuels and petrol stations needed to do so. it also provides for the new car fleet to be forecast by the necessary target, with a review and a proposal to be put forward by the commission in 2014 which will also take into account the framework. it also takes account of zero-emission vehicles and also of very low-emission vehicles and their multiplier effect; this helps the industry and makes it not only a carrot but also an obligation and also makes it easier to inform the consumer. i have only to ask guido sacconi to do his best to get back to this parliament.
mr president, i would like to congratulate mr guido sacconi on the work he has done and on the result of it. the proposal under consideration now has two basic objectives: to reach 95 grams per kilometre by 2020, through technological improvements in new vehicles, and to achieve further reductions by improving other systems or components, such as wheels, air conditioning or eco-driving. we support the agreement because it is a balanced agreement. it contributes to a significant reduction in co2 emissions and preserves the competitiveness of the european automotive industry. we are betting on an ambitious agreement by 2020. what we are asking of the car industry is comparable to what we are asking of other productive sectors and it is now up to the industry to define its strategy to achieve the objectives set. europe produces one third of the cars that are made in the world today. if we want to maintain that privileged position we have to get them to be the cleanest and the safest. the commission has therefore decided to invest in innovation and in the promotion of the renewal of the car fleet.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i shall begin with the great chapter of thanks. i should like to thank the commission in the first place for having tabled a text which gives us a necessary and urgent instrument. i should therefore like to thank the commission - on behalf of vice-president tajani - for making this gesture of putting in our hands an instrument which at this moment, in 2008, was absolutely necessary after a 2007 that was frankly bad in relation to the progress made so far in road safety - and especially given that we are very close, just two years away, to fulfilling the commitment and the objective of all the member states, of the european union, to halve road fatalities. so i thank the commission for that. i would also like to thank the french presidency (although they have just left the chamber), because i believe that their efforts and tenacity have convinced us that it is possible to move forward with a dossier which was complex at the beginning, because of its implications, but which has convinced us that it is worthwhile. i must say, however, that in the subsequent course, taking into account that there were other more important files, it is true that we had some problems in understanding the motives of the legal service. we thought that it should always help the presidencies in office to achieve their priorities and objectives, but in this case we found that it did not help us much. in some cases, a jha council has at some point put forward conclusions, with all its good intentions, but which have not helped us to maintain the strict view that this text, this instrument we gave ourselves, was a strictly road safety instrument designed to prevent problems and accidents on the roads and the impunity of drivers. finally, a special and cordial chapter for the rapporteurs, my colleagues, especially mrs fouré, who has been with me in the sense that we have made a good team in improving this text, as well as the rest of my colleagues, mr cocilovo, mrs lichtenberger and my colleagues, with whom i believe we have finally managed to save a text that has improved. i think we have succeeded in completing a procedure, a system where some issues were missing, such as the prosecution of subsequent administrative infringements after the exchange, the system of exchange of information and notification: we lacked, in the case of those member states where the infringements are of an administrative nature, a complementary procedure for which i think we have at least proposed a possible solution. it is also important to have strengthened controls. we know that in road safety we do not normally have the possibility of reinforcing checks and the commission has helped us in this case. it was also about ensuring data protection guarantees and the recognition of the work done by victims' associations and also making it clear how this system should also affect motorists. we therefore cannot understand how the council has decided to stick to an approach, to a legal basis, which does not help us at all and which rather blocks possible progress. in this connection, i should like to say that parliament and the commission are convinced that the basis is road safety, which is an important first step in improving precisely that aspect which all european citizens are hoping to see improved and which must therefore be maintained in a third pillar approach which is now about to expire, since the treaty of lisbon (ratified by the member states, who are precisely reluctant in the council at the moment) aims to eliminate that third pillar, which now appears to some of them as an element to be weighed against the progress of this text. we believe and hope that the problems caused by the legal basis will be solved (which the citizens will not understand when we explain to them why we are not giving ourselves a fundamental instrument for improving road safety, to prevent impunity for those non-resident drivers, those drivers who cross our countries, who commit offences because they feel impunity), because we really have not understood that it can continue to be maintained. we therefore ask the czech presidency - the next presidency - to forget its reservations and to take a step forward in favour of road safety.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i wanted to make a specific complaint about the absence of the council, but i see that there is a person representing the council, although we would obviously have preferred to have a direct representative of the presidency. but it's true that mr. borloo was very tired. i would like to thank the colleagues for their comments. i can assure some of them that we have tried to ensure full confidentiality of data with the european data controller. it is precisely with regard to procedural guarantees that we have tried, with the invaluable help of the commission and the legal services of parliament, to raise all the possible ones at this stage of the directive. as for the swiss system, i can assure you that the current problem is that, for non-residents, our police cannot normally exchange data or report them, so that, although in cases where they are caught they do pay - and this exists in all our member states - when radars or cameras are used, that is to say, mechanical means, they cannot obtain such data and that is the system we are applying at the moment. i would simply like to thank everyone for their patience, because in some areas we have not been able to expand the approaches that were being put forward by, for example, mr evans, mrs lichtenberger or mrs ţicău. however, there is a review clause which the commission has guaranteed us would allow, within two years of the directive being implemented, for an evaluation to be launched and for new aspects to be introduced or included as appropriate at that time. this, of course, requires the adoption of the directive. we need political solutions and not legal strategies, and i therefore thank both the commission and the french presidency, and above all my colleagues, not only for their patience and support but also, i hope, for the vote tomorrow, which must be as majority as possible in order to be able to address the new presidency, the czech presidency, together with the commission, and to raise the need for progress towards the adoption of this directive.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank everybody for contributing to the debate and, as i said in my earlier statement, i wholeheartedly welcome parliament’s report. the directives on settlement finality and financial collateral are the two cornerstones of the post-trading environment, and there is no doubt that the current amendments represent very substantial progress. the commission supported the ecb’s request to designate systems directly to the commission, but there is insufficient support at present in the council. however, it is something that we will come back to and look at again in the near future. again, i express my best wishes to ms kauppi.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday.
the next item is the report by christian ehler, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 94/19/ec on deposit-guarantee schemes, as regards the level of cover and the payment term (com ((2008) 0661 - c6-0361/2008 - 2008/0199 (cod)) (a6-0494/2008).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the financial crisis has put the functioning of deposit guarantee schemes in the european union to the test. the resulting tensions have shown that the shortcomings in their coverage and functioning undermine depositors' confidence and that the unilateral measures taken by some member states to address the situation have a significant cross-border impact and destabilising effects. this has increased the demand for common action to correct the identified shortcomings and to revise the regulatory framework in depth. the negotiated text reflects the excellent work done by mr ehler, who achieved a great deal of consensus in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the adoption of this resolution will give the green light at first reading to a reform which addresses two urgent issues: raising the level of cover and reducing payment terms, and lays the foundations for a review to harmonise bank deposit guarantees in the european single market. i welcome the fact that the guaranteed deposit coverage should first be increased to a minimum of eur 50 000 and that it should be set at eur 100 000 in a harmonised manner and by the end of 2010, in accordance with the impact study to be analysed by the commission, taking into account consumer protection, financial stability and competition. the power given to the commission to adjust it to inflation by means of the legislative procedure with scrutiny is also appropriate. the reduction of the payment deadline from the current three months to 20 working days from the administrative decision or the judicial decision, as well as the assessment of a possible reduction to 10 working days, is a significant improvement, as is the introduction of the concept of emergency payments and the obligation to ensure that depositors are provided with the necessary information on the applicable guarantee scheme. i fully support the demand that the commission submit a full report by the end of 2009 on such relevant issues as the harmonisation of the mechanisms for financing guarantee schemes, the justification for full coverage in certain cases, the costs and benefits of a community guarantee scheme or the link between deposit schemes and other alternative means.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday. written declarations (article 142 of the regulation)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to pay special tribute to the representative of the french presidency, mr sorel, who has set an example of cooperation with the committee on budgets by being present at all the debates we have had. the european parliament's budgetary procedure has been successfully completed for another year. we have not had the experience of many years of negotiations between the commission, the council and the european parliament. we know the limits of each institution and we have managed to reach an agreement on the minimum requirements which makes it possible to present tomorrow's vote as an institutional success of the european union. but so many years of mutual knowledge also tell us that this year the minimum agreement falls below what should be the minimum required under normal conditions. the problem is that this draft budget was planned in the distant march or april without taking into account the enormity of the economic and financial crisis. it is not unusual, therefore, as some member states have also done, not to plan in advance. the budgetary procedure is very rigid and leaves no room for amendments on the fly. the european parliament, at its first reading, put forward proposals which were intended to contribute to economic recovery and to increase the security of citizens, mainly through amendments by the people's group and also by the liberals. some were followed by the council and some were not. and it is at the end, when the conciliation has been completed, that the council and the commission finally come up with great ideas on how to use the community budget to revive economic growth. and between improvisation and urgency, the most logical consequence is disappointment. in the end, the response to the economic crisis will be a national rather than a community response, and the budget of the european union will not, unfortunately, be the powerful economic policy instrument it should have been. what is not understood is that in years of economic prosperity, back in 2005-2006, the financial perspective was so cut and limited that it prevented the annual budgetary policy from being used as a counter-cyclical weapon. we are drowning in annual ceilings and the multiannual financial framework is not fit for purpose in years of crisis. a final thought: the two community programmes most affected by the 2006 financial perspective agreement, trans-european networks and rural development, are now the ones chosen to relaunch european economic growth from brussels. we ask: who is responsible now for having reduced them so much back then?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the arduous and complex budgetary process. we shall vote tomorrow, and i trust the results will be favourable. the world is going through a serious crisis, with its epicenter in the financial system, which has already negatively contaminated the real economy. this requires a change in policies to reorient the economic model, to stop the deterioration of the productive structure and to avoid the increase in the perverse social and climatic effects that are occurring. we must take our share of responsibility and ensure that the 2009 budget is a good instrument to help us emerge from the crisis and to continue building the europe of citizens, social europe and rights that corresponds to our history; an inclusive europe, and i cite as an example the incorporation into the budgets of the pilot project to facilitate the integration of the roma people; a europe of solidarity within and with the outside world, starting with its neighbours to the south and east. i am pleased to mention the budgetary dimension of the barcelona process, now the union for the mediterranean, in which we have placed so much hope: a europe capable of continuing to feed its population and of seriously combating the scourge of hunger and social exclusion in the world. all this is to promote the sustainable and peaceful development of peoples. ladies and gentlemen, with your approval tomorrow, the union's budgets for 2009 will be put into effect. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the basis of the information provided by the member states. we'll keep an eye out. i take this opportunity to wish you all the best for the coming year.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a victory for the whole of parliament. (applause) i want to congratulate two million european doctors and one million medical students on the work they have done; i also want to congratulate the european trade union confederation and all the national trade unions, who have worked so hard. mr president, the council must be reminded that this is not a setback, that this is an opportunity to rectify a wrong decision, that it must see this as an opportunity to bring our agenda closer to that of the citizens. we must ask the commission to put on the referee's uniform, to take off the council's shirt which it has worn for the last three years, to put on the referee's shirt and to proceed to a conciliation so that the reconciliation of family and professional life and social europe can become a reality! (laughter)
mr president, today's event was very emotional with the sakharov prizes and also, for me, with the presence on the podium of the president of the sahrawi arab democratic republic, who is fighting for the self-determination, the just self-determination, of his people. it is also a historic day because this parliament has stood with its sovereign people, with the people who have brought us all here by their votes. i congratulate my colleague mr cercas on his report, who has fought so hard over the years for this political and trade union, social and workers' position in europe. and i call on the governments that have not yet done so and on the commission to follow the path and listen to the voice of the people as the european parliament has done this time.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the cercas amendments today because i believe that this is the only way to stop the proposal for a council directive on the organisation of working time. my group has always opposed this directive and has therefore tabled an amendment rejecting it in its entirety, because it represents a serious setback for workers' rights. the proposal for a directive sets out an individual opt-out clause, under which an employer and an employee can agree to an increase in working time of up to 60 hours. although the cercas amendments soften the text of the directive, they worsen the current situation (they maintain the opt-out clause for three years and increase the reference period for the calculation of hours to six months). in my group's view, the cercas report does not go in the right direction in guaranteeing the 35-hour working week by law and with equal pay, to make the redistribution of wealth effective. i have voted in favour of this because it is the only strategic option to paralyse the council directive by forcing it to go to conciliation.
on behalf of the pse group. everything you have explained, madam commissioner, is very good, we agree with it 100%. their conclusions also: we must seek greater consistency. but there is one aspect on which i would like to insist, in the short time of speaking time we have, in relation to this question of coherence, because there is a lot of demand for europe in the field of human rights in the world, there is a lot of criticism of europe in the field of human rights in the world, it is said that europe applies its principles only to its own advantage or only for its citizens. but the only answer to this demand and criticism is consistency between the european union's external and internal human rights policies. we cannot be credible in the world if, in the management of immigration in particular and in the policies of response to the tragic events of terrorism, we apply measures which are not exemplary in terms of human rights. this is the basic and fundamental question, madam commissioner: the coherence between the external and internal policies of the european union in the field of human rights. that said, i think we should perhaps focus on two priorities and i shall make the most of the short time i have left. the fight against the death penalty is something that our contemporary generations can see as a success, it is a possible goal and we must concentrate on it. secondly, i am pleased that the feminization of the union's human rights policy has been reinforced in the last six months of the french presidency with a specific policy in this field of women's human rights.
president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the catania report is a remarkable piece of work which gives a very broad overview of the human rights situation in the european union. it contains a great many very useful recommendations, which concern both institutional and material aspects of human rights. some of these recommendations are of concern to the commission and i will let it answer for itself. perhaps i should focus on some of the points that have been raised. i am thinking, for example, of the european union agency for fundamental rights. the european agency is criticized for having a narrow field of competence because of its limitation to the first of the three pillars of the european union. i think it is worth recalling in this connection that there is, on the one hand, a clause for a review of the agency's mandate before 31 december 2009, allowing for a possible extension of the powers of the third pillar on the basis of a commission proposal. the agency's opinions are also freely available to any european institution or member state, taking into account the respective competences of each. in this context, the council, through the french presidency, asked the agency on 3 september for its opinion on the proposal for a framework decision on the use of passenger data by law enforcement authorities in the member states, which falls under the third pillar of the european union. the council thus wished to demonstrate the particular importance it attaches to the question of human rights. i would then like to turn to the question of migrants and refugees. there have been many proposals, many measures in the report, in the area of migrants, and i can only recall that the european pact on asylum and immigration states that the european council solemnly reaffirms that migration and asylum policies must be in line with the standards of international law and in particular with those relating to human rights, the dignity of the human person and refugees. i would like to mention a third point raised in the report, this time concerning the rights of the child. how can i disagree with your conclusions regarding the condemnation of all forms of violence against children, the elimination of child labour, the attention given to roma children, childcare. i note that the report considers that detention of juvenile offenders should be only a measure of last resort and that there are alternative measures. there are many other points in this report, and i cannot dwell on all of them. i would like to conclude on a very positive note, which i particularly welcome, by pointing out that the framework decision on combating certain forms and expressions of racism and xenophobia by means of criminal law, to which the report refers, was formally adopted by the justice and home affairs council on 28 november 2008, after seven years of lengthy discussions. in reply to mr deprez, i should like to begin by thanking you for the congratulations you have addressed to the french presidency of the european union. believe me, it's a matter of the heart. president sarkozy wanted to demonstrate by his activity, by the management of a presidency that was finally in crisis, as the georgian crisis and the financial crisis have shown, that political europe was back. we are very grateful to you for your warm welcome and we would also like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the very close cooperation which has bound us together during these months of the french presidency. before i address the questions you have raised, i would like to say two things. the first is that i am very sensitive to the issue of double standards that has been raised by many of you. it is true that one may wonder whether it is possible, in fact, to defend human rights abroad, outside the european borders, while paying, as one may sometimes suspect, less attention to the situation within the european borders themselves. this is a very relevant issue and i myself keep on saying that we must sweep our own door to strengthen our credibility abroad in the field of human rights. and our approach to human rights must be bold, but also modest. only if we consider the indivisibility of human rights will we have a better chance of being heard from the outside. some of you have also spoken about the sakharov prize for hu jia, which i welcome, of course. i welcome the award given to this chinese blogger, supported by the european parliament. i think that's a great thing. i myself have been very committed to the cause of defending hu jia, and i hope that this sakharov prize will help to advance human rights, particularly in china. i would like to return to the questions you have raised, mr president, and perhaps to begin by saying that the council has been working very closely with the european parliament over the past year, as i said earlier. a very rich dialogue was held with the european parliament, and in particular the libe committee, on the texts which could or should be adopted as a matter of priority, taking account of the institutional timetable. the presidency has urged the member states to complete the ratification process, which has accelerated work in national parliaments and has led to the adoption of many texts, some of them essential. we hope that by the end of the current parliamentary term important texts will have been adopted, such as the one on the europeanisation of europol and the mandate to obtain evidence. all these texts should make it possible to draw up a not insignificant assessment of the european union in these matters. you will also have seen that the presidency has completed or made strong progress on many of the initiatives which your parliament had identified as its priorities. with regard to the third pillar in particular, it has endeavoured to make codecision fully operational in the fields of immigration and justice or civil justice. and you know, with regard to the negotiations with third countries, she has advocated that any future negotiation on data exchange with the united states should only be with the european parliament, which has not been easy. these are important advances in these areas, but they could be even more significant if the community method were applied to the areas of justice, freedom and security falling within the third pillar. the protection of fundamental rights in the european area of justice, freedom and security is a permanent issue and, like you, i believe that it is in particular through the protection of fundamental rights that developments in the field of justice, freedom and security must be interpreted. i can of course only confirm the council's willingness to work towards this and we can agree with the main points you raise, while keeping in mind the institutional context which is ours. as regards the relaunch of the proposal on the protection of procedural rights in criminal proceedings, an action plan for the protection of persons in criminal proceedings should therefore be discussed next year, and the evaluation of the european arrest warrant will continue in order to achieve a consistent implementation of the framework decision. and the lisbon treaty, if it enters into force, will give a new impetus to this dynamic by giving the charter of fundamental rights a binding value, but also thanks to the institutional developments that the new treaty would allow in the area of justice, freedom and security. there are many other issues that could be raised by the report and by members of the european parliament over the last few months. i think we can continue the debate on this again. i may perhaps leave mr barrot to do so first, but is it for me to say, madam president?
the commission's vice-president - madam president, i would like to extend a very warm welcome to the minister, mrs rama yade, and also to thank the rapporteur, mr catania, and the committee, but i will come back to this, mr deprez. the report you have tabled is detailed and rich, as the presidency has stressed. mr catania, fundamental rights are at the heart of the european construction and the commission is obviously committed to promoting their effective and rigorous respect. you stress in the report that there is still serious progress to be made by the member states and the institutions. it is true that the promotion and enforcement of fundamental rights within the union must be strengthened. the union must be exemplary, not only in the credibility of its external policy, but also in establishing that mutual trust between the member states which is indispensable to the functioning of a genuine area of justice, freedom and security. your report makes important recommendations and we agree with you that it is essential to strengthen the monitoring of the compliance of draft legislation with the charter, to improve the reception of migrants and asylum seekers, to ensure that the fight against terrorism is carried out in full respect of fundamental rights, to redouble efforts in the fight against discrimination, to improve the situation of roma throughout the european union and - i would also add - to establish closer cooperation with the council of europe. i fully intend to pursue it personally. the recommendations and legitimate criticisms should not, however, obscure the real progress that the commission and the european union have made in the field of fundamental rights, as ms rama yade has just said, namely the recent adoption by the council of the framework decision on racism and xenophobia and the adoption of the framework decision on data protection in the third pillar, even if this is only considered as a first step. the commission has just proposed new legislation on the right of asylum, which is inspired by the desire to promote a high level of protection. i have reminded the member states of their obligation to respect fundamental rights when transposing the directive on the return of illegal immigrants, and i will ensure that this is done. the new proposal for a directive on non-discrimination outside the workplace will complete our legislative arsenal. gender equality, an area in which the european union has striven to be at the forefront, has been the subject of a commission proposal to improve the reconciliation of family and working life by increasing the minimum duration of maternity leave. it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that we must ensure that fundamental rights are enshrined in our texts, but we must also check how they are lived on the ground. the task is very important and to do it successfully, a real strategy for respect for fundamental rights within the european union must be put in place. the future multiannual programme, the so-called stockholm programme, should, in my view, include a communication which will define this policy of respect for fundamental rights within the union, explaining clearly the possibilities and limits of the commission's action in this field. we must make fundamental rights as effective as possible. there is no point in always inventing new laws. i would say that the basic normative framework is there: the european convention on human rights and the charter of fundamental rights. we now have information from the council of europe on the violation of fundamental rights. finally, we now have a tool - and you have pointed this out - the fundamental rights agency, which the minister said would be subject to a review clause as to its scope at the end of next year. it is true that these instruments must be used to the full. first of all - i will try to summarize this - the union must be irreproachable in its legislative activity. the compatibility of european legislation with the charter of fundamental rights must be systematically and rigorously checked. in 2005, the commission defined a method for checking the conformity of proposals and the application and use of this method needs to be further strengthened. we must have respect for these fundamental rights in mind throughout our legislative processes. and then, of course, we have to intervene with the member states when necessary. i intend to explain the commission's intervention doctrine in this future stockholm programme. we can intervene in two ways within the framework of the powers provided for in the treaty. firstly, when the application of community legislation in a member state raises a fundamental rights problem, the commission normally has to play its role as guardian of the treaties, including through infringement procedures. it will be necessary to identify and perhaps list the situations in which this violation of fundamental rights requires this infringement procedure. i will be particularly vigilant about respect for fundamental rights, in particular the rights of the child, when the member states - but i have already said this - are going to implement the return directive. i spoke about the fingerprinting project in the nomadic camps in italy to remind the public of the need to respect community law and fundamental rights, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data. there are also situations where we go beyond the community's powers. these are political measures which may be necessary in certain circumstances, when we cannot use national mechanisms. on the question of secret detentions by the cia, the commission has made several contacts with poland and romania, insisting on the need to launch investigations. poland responded by informing the commission that a criminal investigation had been initiated. the romanian senate has carried out an inquiry which needs to be completed to take account of the second report of the council of europe. i know that in your report, mr catania, you refer to the famous article 7, which is a bit like nuclear deterrence, and you wonder why it has not been used. i could use him as a threat. it is true that when i reminded bulgaria that it was really necessary to challenge the journalism prize awarded to a journalist known for his vile remarks against the roma, the prize was eventually withdrawn. but it is true that we must also think about this use of article 7. secondly, of course, we must try to make concrete progress on human rights in certain key areas of the common area of life. the rights of the child! so they now concern all the policies of the union. but it is also an area where we can make real progress. i would remind you that in the european asylum policy we said that there was no possibility of detaining unaccompanied minors. we have generally insisted that special attention be paid to children. for the dublin ii reform, we have insisted on the requirements of family reunification. i also thank the french presidency for giving us further impetus to set up this early warning mechanism which is indispensable to prevent child abductions. and then, in march 2009, i will propose the revision of a framework decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children, child pornography and human trafficking. the protection of personal data requires a comprehensive and renewed strategy, which will include a review of directive 95/46 on the basis of an assessment in the light of technological developments. i have already spoken on the right of asylum. as regards the fight against racism and xenophobia, of course, now that we have a text - thank you, french presidency, for finally making this text available to us - we must use it and we must prevent the economic crisis from leading to more xenophobia and racism, especially among some opinion leaders. it will be necessary to ensure that fundamental rights are genuinely respected in all areas of the fight against terrorism. the communication on racism and xenophobia could define ways of enhancing the effectiveness of action in this area. the commission will also have to present a report on totalitarian crimes in 2010. the aim is to promote a culture of reconciliation, which is specific to the european union, based on recognition of the crimes and the victims, in order to put an end to the divisions between the new and the old member states, which are not always sufficiently aware of the tragic history of the former. it is a broad action, a strategy which must pay close attention to the implementation of the principles which the european union has set itself. i say to mr catania that we will of course draw from his report a whole series of ideas to develop the stockholm programme. i come now to the question from president deprez. i thank him and i would like to say - and i also address the members of his committee - that as commissioner for justice, freedom and security, i am very fortunate and very supportive to have a demanding but extremely attentive and committed commission on all these difficult problems where the right balance must be struck between the need for security, which is obviously legitimate, and the opportunity that must be given to freedom and justice to take their full dimension. it is true that progress has been made in the area of freedom, security and justice. however, after tampere and the hague, we are now in charge of drawing up the so-called stockholm multiannual programme and it is too early for me to develop any precise ideas about the content of the next multiannual programme. i shall just mention a few points and apologize for being a little long. firstly, effective respect for fundamental rights in the union must become a principle at the heart of the whole multiannual programme. secondly, we must put the human person at the centre of our action, whether he is a european citizen or a national of a third country who lives in our territory. we must build a europe of results for the benefit of people. this europe requires the defence of their rights, their security and their protection, in particular that of the most vulnerable, such as victims, and guarantees of better access to justice. i want to thank rama yade for bringing up procedural rights. i think it's a very important text. i feel that there will be some reluctance to overcome, but it is essential, if we are to have mutual recognition of judicial decisions, to ensure that justice is done throughout europe with a certain number of procedural safeguards, that is absolutely essential. the european judicial area must also, of course, simplify the free movement of citizens and trade relations, while keeping in mind that we have to fight crime and terrorism in accordance with the rule of law. the european model of justice will prevail through balance and coherence, at the cost of an effort to increase mutual trust and recognition. thirdly, the external dimension of the area of freedom, security and justice. this external dimension must be integrated and complementary to the internal dimension. we cannot fight human trafficking without tackling the phenomena in the countries where trafficking often begins. and then the whole immigration policy, the concerted management of migration flows, is part of this idea of linking the external dimension and the internal dimension. the commission plans to present a communication on future priorities in may 2009. then there will be a political debate for the adoption of the third multiannual programme at the end of 2009. but i must say - as i said this morning before the libe committee coordinators - that we really need the european parliament to draw up this multiannual programme. i have no doubt that we can rely on your suggestions, on your proposals. it is true that the area of security, freedom and justice has progressed, but it is also true that we are, in a way, at the dawn of this true judicial community in which we can move around in the european area and, at the same time, assert our rights there, regardless of the member state in which we are. this is very important if we really want the concept of european citizenship to have a real meaning in the lives of european citizens. there is still a lot to be done, it is a very exciting task, and i thank the european parliament once again, and especially its libe committee, for the help they are giving us with such zeal and conviction.
opinion of the committee on culture and education. - madam president, i shall add to my speech a turn on behalf of my group and the turn of my colleague viktória mohácsi, on behalf of the committee on culture. i would certainly like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done and on his effort, of which i am a very front-row witness, to try to reach consensus with the other groups on the content of what is now his report. i share the rapporteur's commitment to human rights and his willingness to go a little further. it is true, i fully share what he said in his speech, that sometimes we in europe arrive at the paradox that we defend and attack the human rights situation anywhere in the world and overlook aberrant discrimination within our own territory because sometimes we do not have enough instruments to fight against that situation. that is something that really needs to be denounced and the one who has the full legitimacy to do so is this parliament. the rapporteur is aware that we have had some debate about whether or not it is useful to include in this report other social problems in our society that go beyond human rights. i think that this report, in some of its paragraphs and, of course, much more in its original versions, is a little bit lacking in a very good will to try to solve everything, not just human rights, but all the social problems that are at the moment in europe. that can sometimes weaken our performance a little bit. from housing shortages to the employment of the elderly, these are problems that will have to be tackled, but i am not entirely sure that they will have to be tackled in the same package or on the same list as the defence of fundamental rights. but, in any case, it is true and it is a fact that we have serious problems within our own borders, problems affecting individuals and problems affecting groups, social groups that are being despised, that are being discriminated against on grounds of sex, sexual orientation, ethnicity, ethnicity, religion, etc., and they need to be denounced and they need a global approach. it has been done in cooperation with the council of europe, and i think it is very timely that this great institution is mentioned. in this connection, the committee on culture made a very specific mention of one of these problems, which i would like to stress here on behalf of my colleague viktória mohácsi, who led the discussion on this subject in the committee on culture, and that is discrimination in the education of roma children. the report, in general, deals very well with the problems affecting children in various areas and in particular with the discrimination suffered by roma and roma children, as well as the need for the media - and this has already been said here - and the stakeholders - ngos, social associations - to get involved in this fight against discrimination. there is a lot of pedagogy here, we have to transmit to society the involvement in these values, and there the media, on the one hand, and the whole education, on the other, have a huge responsibility.
mr president, i thank mrs yade for being in this debate on a matter which concerns the citizens so much. this parliament is at the end of a legislature in which it wants to tell the taxpayers that the accounts are checked here and that it is done in the best possible way, admitting that there are mistakes and that it is not always right, but, above all, that fraud is calculated, that we do everything we can. that is why we set up the office for the prevention of fraud ten years ago, which urgently needs a proper legal framework. if you, mrs yade, say that we are going to wait for the commission to make its report and then start negotiating what may be the final statute of olaf, we are already wasting time, the elections are coming, we are already in another legislature. and the message we want to send to the european citizens is that all of us here, the council, the french presidency, the czech presidency, this parliament and the commission, are committed to ensuring that there is no fraud as there is in developing countries and even in very developed countries. i thank you, mrs yade, for being in this debate and i am sorry that the commission is not present.
mr president, i too welcome mrs gräßle's proposal on behalf of the committee on budgetary control to go ahead and press for the legislation we are adopting on olaf to be put into effect as soon as possible. that is why i am also grateful to mrs yade for being here, because the proposal which this parliament adopted rightly emphasized the need to ensure and guarantee the rights of presumption of innocence and the rights of defence of persons subject to olaf investigations, as well as the rights of whistleblowers. above all, we must also establish clearer and more transparent rules and a code of conduct, which we need as soon as possible to be made public, for all citizens. in this connection, we are grateful to mrs gräßle for her initiative and for the support she has received from the committee on budgetary control. we are certainly asking the council to try to unblock the negotiations as soon as possible, to bring them forward, if possible before the end of this parliamentary term - that is, before the next elections - and to be able to guarantee all these rights which parliament is going to strengthen on the basis of mrs gräßle's text.
member of the commission. − i think that with the new treaty we have a chance not only for sport policy but also for the eu sport programme, and i believe that its popularity and closeness to the citizens of the union will be able to recall erasmus - a programme that has become very popular but also effective. it's not just the mobility of individuals, which is increasing, but also the bologna process, a series of issues that we see in education after 20 years as a european pathway to greater openness and relevance of education, qualifications and attractiveness of europe. and that's very important. sport is very necessary and at the same time popular, so it is precisely such a programme in the context of article 149 that could be closely linked to the space and agenda of education and youth, because it is article 149 that explicitly adds sport for the first time. similar instruments, similar formations of the council of ministers will be established under such an article. i would like to express the commission's willingness to participate in the preparation of the application of such an article, and the white paper is a very good prerequisite or step in this direction, which at the same time does not prejudice but puts sport more at the centre of cooperation between both the states and the sports organisations in europe. as regards funding, the beginnings are rather modest and at the same time very necessary, and i assume that it is precisely a specific budget chapter or item approved in parliament for next year of more than eur 6 million that can help some activities as preparation for the next period with a sports programme. it would be premature for me to speak today about the budgetary implications, but rather about the preparatory work which has already been approved in the form of some motions in parliament. as far as biarritz is concerned, or education and sport, i think biarritz was a success, i said it was the first forum. at the same time, two weeks later, the european council's conclusions - which are not usual for prime ministers and presidents to talk about sport - were issued, and in the formal conclusions, very encouraging not only for the biarritz forum, but also for further cooperation and the content of this cooperation. obesity, sport for all, they're simply connecting, because in the fight against obesity, sport is one of the best antidotes or means. unfortunately, in europe in general, the proportion of education in the form of physical education or the number of hours per pupil during the school year is declining, and this is a bad trend, and it needs to be changed. at the same time, the quality of this time, the quality of education must be improved, and i am glad that we have managed to draw up for the first time the so-called guidelines or guidelines for physical education, which were approved in biarritz, are the result of expertise, and i hope that they will be approved - perhaps supplemented, but mainly approved and adopted at the national level by the ministers of health in the health council. and that just goes to show that sport needs a horizontal approach. more coordination and coherence is needed across our policies, and the commission will do this with your help.
member of the commission. - madam president, mr medina ortega, you are asking me about the evolution of inflation in the euro area and the consequences, how the euro area has reacted. the last 15 months have certainly seen two seemingly contradictory processes, but both have taken place in our economies. on the one hand, until july 2008, the economies of the euro area, all european economies and also many other industrialized and emerging countries, have suffered a strong shock from the rise in the prices of oil and other raw materials, food and non-food. these impressive increases, which brought the price of a barrel of oil to about $150 in july, or the price of wheat, corn, rice and other commodities to extraordinarily high levels, creating obvious social problems, caused a rise in price indices which led the euro area to have a price index in june-july of this year of around 4%. since the summer, the very strong economic slowdown and now in many cases the recession in the major economies of the euro area as a whole, in the united states, in japan, have produced an extraordinarily strong negative demand shock, which is also seen, observed, in emerging countries like china or india or others, and now the prices of raw materials have slowed down extraordinarily quickly; today, the barrel of oil must be at 43 or 45 dollars, but the same very sharp falling profile can be observed in the evolution of many other raw materials. in our price index, just this morning eurostat has published the price index for the month of november, it shows that in the euro zone the annual inflation rate is 2.1%. on average, this year, 2008, euro area inflation, considering that the first half of the year has been a very bullish part, is going to be around 3%. i can't say the exact figure, we'll see in a month exactly. but in profile we can already announce that next year, for the first time since the euro area exists as such, since 1999, the average inflation of the euro area of the 16 countries will be below 2%, below the inflation threshold consistent with price stability defined by the european central bank. it is even possible that mid-year, in june or july, year-on-year inflation may show some negative signs as a result of this sharp turn in oil and commodity prices. but this does not mean that there are no problems of price formation. even in a period of low inflation, as a consequence of the crisis and the development of commodity prices, microeconomic problems of price formation persist. the commission has just published a communication on food prices, and in it we discuss the measures we are taking to eliminate abuses and malfunctioning of the retail markets in food prices. and, in the context of the review of the internal market, there is a whole series of actions announced by the commission to monitor markets where price formation is not correct. we therefore act from a macroeconomic point of view in the area of our competence, in addition to that of the central bank, and we act in the microeconomic area. finally, you also mention aspects of purchasing power in relation to the outside world. the euro appreciated considerably against the dollar and other currencies. in july, the real effective exchange rate of the euro against the other currencies of our partners and competitors was at very high levels, with a clear overestimation of the effective exchange rate of the euro. today, the situation has returned to more normal areas, which can be considered close to what someone, from an academic or analytical point of view, might consider, in some work of that nature, as the euro's equilibrium exchange rate.
i thank the commissioner for his reply, which was very timely, very correct and very complete. the next question i have to put to you is a little bit cautious because the fixing of interest rates is not the commission's job but the european central bank's, and there is an independence of the two bodies, but there seems to be an interrelation between inflation and interest rates. on the one hand, there are those who think that the european central bank raised interest rates at a certain moment when it was perhaps not necessary to do so, causing a lot of suffering to consumers, and now we are witnessing a process, a kind of competition around the lowering of interest rates: in the united states, i think it is 0.25%, which is practically nothing. does the commission make any assessment of the impact of the european central bank's decisions on inflation and does it make any forecasts of these consequences in the future?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's external borders are not crossed by irregular migrants, and that the european union is not forced to take action against them. unfortunately, many of them pay the price of the european dream with their lives. european policy-makers must respond to this situation with a common response based on respect for the dignity and fundamental rights of immigrants. we must open our borders to legal immigration, to the integration of workers with rights and obligations and close them to illegal immigration, to the mafias and to human traffickers. we have frontex and eurosur to help us do this, instruments which add value to the work of the member states and reflect the necessary european spirit of cooperation and solidarity. the objective we are pursuing is the development of an integrated european system for the management of all the external borders of the union, based on operational coordination and interoperability between national surveillance systems, because when one illegal immigration route is closed, the mafias open and organise another route in less than a week. ladies and gentlemen, we share the commission's approach, as reflected in the report of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. after the agency has made some positive first steps, we must define its future role and the pace of development. ladies and gentlemen, frontex is working. the figures for hera operations in the canary islands and the thousands of lives saved in the mediterranean confirm this, as do the improvements in coordination, the exchange of best practices and the specialised training carried out on issues such as asylum, maritime law and fundamental rights. now, we must move on. frontex should have the appropriate material and logistical means to be able to carry out joint ad hoc operations as well as permanent surveillance missions in high-risk areas. some member states talk about solidarity but do not practice it, which reduces the effectiveness of frontex. in view of this situation, we ask the commission and the member states to choose between two options: either amend the agency's regulation to include mandatory solidarity, as set out in the rabbits regulation, or offer frontex the possibility of acquiring or renting its own equipment. this obviously means a substantial increase in the budget, but it also reinforces the european dimension of the agency and facilitates the availability of the material resources available, especially in the short term. we also call on the commission to propose a review of the mandate in order to close the legal loopholes which hinder its action in maritime rescue and repatriation operations. ladies and gentlemen, without cooperation with the countries of origin we shall not be able to manage migration flows effectively. experience such as spain's cooperation with senegal has produced a very positive result which must be taken to the european level. we therefore ask the commission to include cooperation on immigration in all agreements it signs with third countries and to organise information campaigns with them on the risks of illegal immigration. frontex should be able to continue to extend working arrangements and establish cooperation with countries of origin in accordance with their specific needs. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that frontex and eurosur are not the panacea but rather valuable instruments in the service of a european migration policy whose ultimate objective is that immigration should be a factor of development, both for the host countries and for the countries of origin, but above all for immigrants. immigration cannot continue to be a death trap. let us act so that immigration is no longer an obligation but a right and a personal choice.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i listened carefully to all the speeches. i would like to say first of all that i cannot in my heart and mind allow it to be said that frontex is a symbol of a fortress europe which is closed to all those who need protection or who aspire to come to europe. that's not true! and as simon busuttil, mr coelho, mrs cederschiöld and mrs vălean have all very well said, it is clear that frontex has saved many lives so far, and i cannot allow it to be said that frontex is thus in some way a militarization of europe. i can't let you say that. it is true that we must make progress, that mrs cederschiöld said that frontex should help us in the fight against trafficking in human beings, that mrs vălean also said that we must look at the land borders and remind the states of their duties. at present, 80 per cent of this irregular border crossing is practically managed - it must be said - by smugglers, by unscrupulous operators. it is important to note that today, to travel from libya to the canary islands, one has to pay extremely large sums - eur 2 000 or 3 000 - at the risk of being shipwrecked and drowned before reaching the coast. then i can't let you say that. i believe that frontex has a role to play, a positive role, of course. we need the integrated border management that mr coelho spoke about, and it is true that we will now have to think about a new mandate for frontex. frontex must take its place in this overall approach linking development and concerted management of migration flows. that's the real answer to your questions. i would also like to remind you, if necessary, that the commission must of course prepare guidelines for joint operations organised by frontex at sea. it is experts from the united nations high commissioner for refugees and the international organisation for migration who work with the experts from the member states and frontex to ensure, in particular, that frontex complies with the rules of the convention on rescue at sea, which requires that persons picked up can then be taken to a place of safety, a place where their vital safety is no longer threatened and where they can be supported until their fate is settled. that's what i meant. i am very well aware of the insufficiency of frontex's resources and it will probably be necessary, in some way or other, either to force the member states to really make available to frontex their own resources or to provide frontex with its own resources, which obviously seems difficult in the present budgetary framework. in any case, it is true that the mandate of frontex must be extended, it must be enabled to cooperate with the third countries of origin of immigrants in order to be able to jointly provide intelligent, humane monitoring of these irregular migrations which are, once again, at the expense of the people concerned. i would like to thank mr moreno for his balanced report, which paves the way for a frontex that is better equipped and at the same time, i would say, fully geared to the preservation of human life. this is what we think of when we think of frontex, we must not forget it. i simply wanted to say that after listening carefully to all the speeches in this debate, and i assure you that when we draw up guidelines for frontex, i will of course remember this debate.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr vice-president, i think we are on the right track. those who have followed the european adventure for many years know that when parliament and the commission go hand in hand, things go well in the european union. i think we are on the right track and we want to continue on that. i would like to begin by thanking all the members who have spoken this evening. i think that it was a debate like the ones that take place in this house, like democracy, with differing opinions, but i think there is a fairly broad consensus and obviously i want to thank the rapporteurs of the other political groups and all the members of the commission, because, with their contributions, we have obtained, as has been said here, a balanced report and i think it is quite complete. i would also like to thank the director of the frontex agency, mr ilkka laitinen, and his deputy director, mr gil arias, who have always put at my disposal all the information i have asked them for, and the whole team that is working in that agency. i have had the opportunity to see on the ground, for example when we were in senegal, but also at the warsaw headquarters, that all the women and men who work at frontex are very committed to their task and very aware of the work they are doing. that is why i have asked the president of the commission for civil liberties, justice and home affairs, mr deprez, to organise a hearing, together with the budget commission, to explain to us what they are doing. we are not only talking about operations, we are doing an extraordinary job in training staff, as mr marinescu explained in the rabbits exercises, in identifying false travel documents. it's a very important job that's rarely talked about. that's why i've proposed that this hearing be organized. i think there are two concepts about which we need to talk very deeply. i think it has been said here - the vice-president has said it and we have all said it - that frontex must have the maximum legal certainty, because many times it cannot act without having that certainty and it is then in impossible situations. with the new mandate, with the revision of the mandate, we have to know, in cases of maritime salvage, of repatriation, what can be done and what cannot be done. in conclusion, i think that the most important thing that we have seen in the delegations in the different countries is the european label, the european spirit. many countries prefer to see the label europa to that of a country which at some time was a colonial power, and we see it so clearly. i believe that this is an added value, that we have to bet on frontex and that we have to move forward. we must consider the pace and convince the member states.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of registration of public documents. this parliament's initiative to the commission to take the measures it considers appropriate is based on the hague programme: recognition not only of judgments but also of authentic acts. the aim of this initiative is to facilitate the position of consumers within the european union. the requirement of procedures for the recognition of such documents is both costly and time-consuming. it therefore seems appropriate that we should facilitate the circulation or recognition of such public documents so that each time there is a crossborder procedure, such as a marriage, a contract or something similar, it is not necessary to go through cumbersome procedures. the difficulty that this report may present is the very nature of the authentic european act or public document, which is recognised in most countries of the european union but not in others. there are countries where the system of the european public document, the authentic instrument, issued through public officials does not exist but where it is simply a private document with a notarial authentication, but which does not change the nature of the document. the precedent for this proposal is the unibank judgment of the court of justice of the european union, which established a number of requirements for the recognition of authentic instruments. in particular, the first requirement was that they be issued by public officials. in other words, the person authenticating the document must somehow be a civil servant, which is not the case in some countries of the european union and therefore does not exist. secondly, it must be a document which checks whether the parties' intentions are compatible with the attainment of certain legal objectives. the notarial transaction, at least in continental law, is a transaction of a certain constituent character in which the parties express their will, but it is the notary official who performs that act. and thirdly, the effect of the document cannot go beyond that which is recognised in a country of origin. that is, if the document in your country of origin is only a document of proof, it cannot be enforceable. i would say that these three elements are essential: first, the character of the person who authorizes the document as a public official; secondly, that it is a constituent document and not simply an authentication of a signature; and thirdly, that it does not produce effects different from those which it would have in the country of origin. there is a very clear limitation on this and it is the limitation related to everything that is the law of real estate property. the right of property in immovable property appears to be closely linked to the location of the land, the place where the property is situated, so that the possibility of transfer in this area is limited by the existence of public registers and by the existence of rather strict legislation in each of the countries, which subjects this area to special requirements. i hope that the commission will consider this proposal and that it will be able to put forward an initiative. in concrete terms, the appropriate legal bases would be article 65 (a) and the second indent of article 67 (5) of the ec treaty. i believe that there is a sufficient legal basis and that such initiatives would facilitate legal traffic between citizens and, above all, would result in improvements for those citizens. the problem which the commission can and will raise is the problem of diversity and the legal order, but i think this is a subject which we will have time to discuss at a later stage once the commission has tabled its proposal.
the report i am presenting to you today deals with a subject which has been difficult to deal with in such a short space of time and with such a broad and horizontal objective as the protection of adults in the european union. it is also a report which, within the committee on legal affairs, has been the subject of various views as to the direction it should take. we are discussing this text today in a joint debate with two reports from the committee on legal affairs: the single european act by manuel medina and the e-justice report by mrs wallis. better coordination between these different instruments produced by our committee will undoubtedly make our proposals more effective and, in short, better serve the european citizen. i would first of all like to congratulate the french presidency on the great work it has done in the last six months at the head of the union and, in this case, especially the french minister of justice, mrs dati, for the interest shown in seeing that this problem goes beyond the provisions laid down and that new solutions are found, practical and effective for all the member states. i would also like to mention in particular, in this french accent, the adviser to the minister of justice and judge, amélie durand, and also my french colleagues who have actively participated, such as mr gauzès and mr toubon. our committee on legal affairs has shared the concern of the presidency on the subject which brings us together here today: the protection of vulnerable adults. it therefore decided to draw up an own-initiative legislative report to make progress and to find new solutions from which our elderly can derive the greatest benefit. the commission has also recently been very involved in the adoption of a package of measures in the field of civil law, such as mediation, service of documents and the law applicable to grievances. proof of this was the hearing of the forum on judicial cooperation in civil matters held on 2 december in the committee on legal affairs, in association with the committee on civil liberties, where one of the items on the agenda was the need for the protection of adults in our society. ladies and gentlemen, this is an issue which concerns all member states, as the european union is experiencing an increase in the ageing of its population. in 2050, 37% of the people will be over 60 years old and 10% will be over 80 years old. it is important to remember that this situation has economic, budgetary and health implications that affect us all and that need to be addressed as soon as possible. this report, in turn, seeks to create an area of justice, freedom and security mainly through two avenues: law enforcement and cooperation between the competent authorities of each state. as i said earlier, this report has come a long way since it was unanimously adopted by the committee on legal affairs on 17 december. a compromise amendment was reached which brought the different views of our committee members together. this amendment, which has now become article 2 of the final report, is key to the report, because it reconciles the possibility for the member states to adopt the hague convention of 13 january 2000 in their respective legislation. it also provides that in future, once sufficient experience has been gained in this area, the commission will be asked to make a legislative proposal to strengthen cooperation between member states and to improve the level of recognition and enforcement of decisions relating to the protection of the elderly and of invalidity judgments. i would point out to the house that, to date, only four countries have signed the hague convention and only eight have ratified it. we call on the member states to ratify this convention in order to make this matter of concern to us more coherent and effective. it should be remembered that under the treaty on european union the power to legislate lies with the european commission. however, as we all know, there is a small provision in the treaty - article 192 - which gives parliament the right to ask the commission to draw up a legislative proposal. we would like to apply this article and conclude by saying that the commission should, in future, as the report states, monitor the experience gained by the hague convention in order to propose community provisions to supplement the convention and to provide for possible future additional instruments.
on behalf of the pse group. mr president, i now have a second role: i am not speaking as rapporteur for my report but on behalf of the socialist group in the european parliament on the whole range of reports. i would say that all three reports have one thing in common: they are reports which are aimed at improving the situation of citizens. the fact is that in this area of justice, the improvement of the situation of citizens must be done in accordance with certain principles of balance, taking into account all kinds of considerations. for example, in the area of e-justice, we cannot allow ourselves to be carried away by excessive enthusiasm for new technologies if they, for example, are to the detriment of the guarantees for citizens. for example, the concern to get an electronic address for everyone could lead to people who do not have access to the electronic network being excluded from justice. in the specific field of my report on the authentic instrument, i believe that both the president-in-office of the council, mrs dati, and mr barrot have stressed that legal certainty is also important here. it is a question of taking documents which have value from one country to another, but not of giving recognition to any kind of document whose effectiveness we have doubts about. in other words, a private document, even if notarized in a country where there is no authentic instrument status, cannot have the enforcement power that notarial acts have in continental law, which have a determining enforcement power that is completely different. the balance between the need for efficiency in the functioning of markets and in movement within the european union must not, however, lead us to abandon the essential legal guarantees. without legal guarantees, without guarantees for citizens, there is no law. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
ladies and gentlemen, although the other day, when we were discussing this matter in the chamber, the thought was that speakers who had already spoken in the debate should not be allowed to speak, we are going to make an exception because of what we call in spain the christmas spirit and we are going to give the floor to mr romagnoli.
president of the council. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency has been very attentive to your work on the three subjects. your reports first of all show your interest in these matters and i know that we will have other opportunities to discuss them in the future. i would like to thank mr manuel medina ortega again for his comments and contribution. we must move forward in the area of circulation and recognition of authentic instruments. as you rightly pointed out, the unibank judgment provides a framework for action and a definition of authentic instruments. as jean-paul gauzès has just said, this is an excellent report which will contribute to better judicial cooperation. i would also like to point this out to mrs wallis, it must concern all european citizens, but we must also ensure that the conditions for genuine mutual trust are created. it's necessary for legal certainty. i would also like to highlight diana wallis' involvement in the field of e-justice. you're right, it's a way to increase access to justice. it is worth noting that ten million people are thought to be involved in crossborder disputes, which calls for effective means of communication. i agree with jacques barrot that we will keep this ambition. the intervention of mrs zdravkova goes in that direction, since the interconnection of the judicial system opens up many possibilities for us. mr lópez-istúriz white, i agree with you that we must do more to protect vulnerable adults, especially the elderly, and i welcome the adoption of this report, which is entirely in line with our recommendations and ambitions. i also thank neena gill for her comments, as your testimony makes this report extremely concrete. commissioner, mr jacques, you have also shown your interest in these matters and i hope that our debate today will enrich the consultation which i believe you are currently organising. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the presidency, i would like to thank all the speakers who have spoken. the comments made are very professional, very concrete and, moreover, they give confidence in the future and demonstrate the union's interest in these matters of protecting european citizens. the french presidency's assessment of the justice sector is that the subjects have been concrete, the decisions have been concrete and the ambitions we have are even more so. this was another privileged opportunity to have a dialogue with your assembly, during your work in plenary or in committee, but also on the occasion of all the thematic conferences that have been organized in france on these subjects. i thank you for the excellent cooperation which has been established between the council and parliament, and which has enabled us to make very rapid progress. i remember the beginning of the presidency when we discussed objectives and priorities. i can tell you that the objectives have been achieved and the priorities have been strengthened and i think that the presidencies that will follow the french presidency will go in exactly this direction.
madam president-in-office of the council, allow me to congratulate you too and to congratulate the presidency of the council on the work you have done and on the effort you have made, including on a personal level, during this six-month period.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i simply want to remind you, first of all on the report by mr medina ortega, that we are going to have meetings on the recognition of authentic instruments under the brussels i regulation. we will adopt a report on the application of brussels i in early 2009 and we will look in the course of 2009 at how to revise this brussels i. secondly, as i said earlier, we will have another meeting with the inheritance and matrimonial benefits committee. the question of authentic instruments will therefore also be discussed in the context of a green paper which will deal more generally with all public documents. this green paper is due to be published by the end of 2009. the free movement of documents must certainly be improved, and as the minister has very well said, legal certainty must be ensured, which can only be achieved through genuine mutual trust. this is why we are holding these meetings on authentic acts, which will be the subject of much attention in the months ahead in 2009. as regards e-justice, i would like to confirm that the commission is putting in place the contracts that will enable the first version of the european e-justice portal to be developed within the agreed timeframe, and as has been stressed, the interconnection of criminal records is already, i think, a very promising premise for the success of this e-justice initiative. finally, as i have said, we will be following very closely the implementation of the hague convention on the protection of vulnerable persons. we will, throughout 2009, see exactly what improvements could be envisaged and whether we need a community initiative in this area to facilitate the practical implementation of the hague convention. i am thinking of the transmission of files, of informing vulnerable people of their rights. that is the commission's answer. i would like to congratulate mrs dati personally, mr president, because we have had a very active french presidency in the field of justice, with the seminars to which we were invited, both parliament and the commission, which have greatly enriched the debate and laid the foundations, i would say, of this new stockholm programme. i would like to thank you very much for your personal commitment, for the quality of the french presidency's listening and, quite simply, for the way in which you have also worked on matters relating to maintenance obligations, the communication of criminal records and the strengthening of eurojust. you have a really good track record. that's good.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that the commission should be aware of the fact that the commission is not in a position to give a definitive answer to the question of the authenticity of a document. a private document signed by a notary is recognised as an expression of the will of the parties. in some legal systems the notary merely certifies the parties' will. this is universally recognized by virtue of the principle of the autonomy of the will and the recognition of its existence. what we're talking about here is a completely different instrument. we are talking about the public document, a document in which there is an intervention of an official, who is usually the notary in most of the countries of continental law, who is invested with public power and who raises it to a level very similar to that of judgments. there is no discrimination here on the grounds of nationality. if we were to adopt rules on the authentic european instrument, any european country could have this document and could obtain such recognition, but that would require that it be given the recognition it has in the rest of the legal order. in other words, the third element for the recognition of an authentic instrument is that it cannot produce effects outside that country different from those it produces in the other country. in other words, a british notarial document is recognised on the continent, but only to the same extent as in the british legal system. you can't have it any further. a british legal document cannot be given recognition, for example, in france as if it were a french public document, because it does not have that character. it's a completely different character. so there is no discrimination here. there is an attempt to establish a common system for the whole of the european union, and i think it is possible that some countries which do not have it will adopt this form of document, and for that the adoption of a single european act would be an important instrument.
i should give the floor to mr lópez-istúriz white, but this fellow countryman of mine tells me that he would like to give mr toubon a minute.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i think that was a very good solution and i thank you for the detail you have given to us and to my colleague. i simply join all the speeches, the thanks, especially some of the affectionate speeches on the report and the cooperation of the committee on civil liberties with regard to my report. i would like to make a special mention of mr rogalski's intervention. i, as a member of parliament representing the balearic islands and as a spanish member of parliament, tell you that you must have the utmost confidence that this is why i have taken up this report, to help those people, those elderly people who are currently living on our islands, in spain, as residents, as tourists. having that protection for us is fundamental. it will therefore be obvious to everyone that i have included my country in the ambition that it should soon be able to join the ratification and signature of the hague convention. i only disagree with the minister on one point. as you have seen, i have not spoken of other presidencies, but i join the chorus of requests that we would have liked this french presidency to have lasted much longer. it has, for many of us, come up short. that was simply my discrepancy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at 11.30 a.m. today. (the sitting was suspended at 11 a.m. and resumed at 11.35 a.m.)
the rapporteur, mr president, refers to amendment no 4 tabled by the gue group to paragraph 12a. i propose, in agreement with the gue group, an oral amendment to correct some inaccuracies which have appeared in the various language versions. i'm going to read it in spanish very slowly. the text should be replaced by the following: 'suggests that the minimum requirement for cooperation of the european union with third countries should be compliance' and 'suggests that cooperation of the european union with third countries should be based on compliance'. with this oral amendment my group - and i think several groups - could support the amendment tabled by the gue group.
madam president, i would briefly like to say that i abstained from voting on mrs thyssen's report on the safety of toys. i obviously share the rapporteur's view and that of the majority of this house on the need to protect the safety of children, the need to guarantee the safety of consumers in general. but i think that the cultural traditions of the various member states must be respected and, above all, that the discourse on security must not be brought into situations which, as is the case, are close to the normative ridicule. some of the safety requirements introduced by this directive are certainly bordering on ridiculous. they have done so especially in the debate. he's been saved in the whole. i think that any day now we will be imposing a directive that will force children to wear helmets when they go outside or to wear gloves when it's cold. i think that's nonsense, but we're going in that direction. for that reason, although i understand that the directive has very positive elements, i think it has some exaggerations and that is why i abstained.
author. - as the report says, zimbabwe has a population of 12 million people, according to 2007 estimates, of which almost half are hungry. life expectancy is 36 years and only 40% of the country's teachers are working and only a third of the students are attending classes, with which mugabe is not only killing the present, he is killing the future. the repression and the mutilation of human rights are also on the agenda. zimbabwean human rights defenders have been systematically targeted for arbitrary detention, arrest and torture. the legislation introduced by the government severely restricts the freedoms of expression, assembly, movement and assembly. i would like to mention a number of them, since the government has introduced increasingly repressive rules, which have been against these human rights activists. for example, the access to information and protection of privacy act, used by the government to effectively silence journalists; the public order and security act, which has severely restricted freedom of assembly and hundreds of human rights defenders, including independent media workers, have been arbitrarily detained; and also the private voluntary organisations act, re-established in 2002 by the government and allegedly used to intimidate and harass ngos. madam president, in my mother tongue, basque, which is not official in this house, mugabe means "without limit", a good nickname for this character. the dictator of that african country is not just another in the long list of dictators that we unfortunately have on this planet, but i would venture to say that he is one of the top ten dictators. i think that in the eu we must do everything possible to get this character to leave and end his days sitting in front of a human rights court. we wish zimbabwe a happy 2009 without mugabe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. first, there is alleged fraud in at least two municipalities: nicaragua and león, and this tarnishes the election result of november 9. on the other hand, we have a government that has taken care to solve some of the problems that are eliminating human rights in latin america, namely poverty, illiteracy, infant mortality, the availability of drinking water and the lack of ownership over indigenous lands. so in examining the case, we have to distinguish the two aspects perfectly. on the one hand we must encourage human rights and we must defend human rights, in the traditional sense, as political rights and, on the other hand, we must encourage the nicaraguan government to continue in its role of helping the most needy sectors of the country. we must of course ensure that the opposition can play its part, we must oppose fraud and we must defend the work of ngos. but, nevertheless, there must be a balanced outcome. the socialist group has tabled several oral amendments seeking to make the final text more balanced with regard to allegations of violations of fundamental rights, with regard to the criminal or non-criminal nature of the investigations and with regard to the number of municipalities in which some kind of irregularity has indeed occurred. in short, we want to condemn the alleged violation of fundamental political rights, but without going so far as to place the nicaraguan government in a difficult situation in order to continue to fulfil its role of supporting the most needy sections of its society.
author. - the protection of the rights of human rights defenders is something which i understand cannot be subject to any kind of sections based on political affiliations or phobias. and in this house we are too often in the habit of judging very harshly those with whom we do not share certain political ideals and of overly defending those whom we consider allies. i would stress that in terms of human rights, the issue must be approached from a universal point of view. the risk we face today is also contained in the resolution which has been tabled by some groups on nicaragua. we must bear in mind the context. and this context clearly shows us a country in a situation of poverty which must be tackled with drastic and structural measures as a matter of priority and i know that the current nicaraguan government is doing many of the things that need to be done to tackle this issue. however, it is also necessary to remember that the fight against poverty cannot be compatible with the persecution and harassment of those who, for various reasons, disagree with the official theses. a true democracy is one that allows dissent, debate and free speech. there have been some situations in nicaragua recently which deserve to be highlighted. some positive ones, such as the abolition in july of article 204 of the criminal code, which criminalized homosexuality, and as vice-chairman of the intergroup on lgbt rights in the european parliament, i welcome this fact. but others are negative and highly worrying, such as the many examples we have had to deplore in relation to the backwardness of the situation of women, especially with the persecution of women defenders of sexual and reproductive rights, including the support of a girl who was raped when she was helped to have an abortion so that she could save her life. it is something that we cannot lose sight of and that must be taken into account in the context of the current negotiations on the conclusion of an association agreement. but i also ask that before the commission takes any decision in this respect, this parliament be consulted.
we are discussing today the situation created in nicaragua by the attacks on some human rights defenders, on some of the fundamental freedoms and on democracy. it is not necessary to mention here and now zoilamérica, ernesto cardenal, carlos mejía godoy, jarquín, sergio ramírez and so many other nicaraguans who today feel betrayed in their hopes for a better nicaragua. in november 2006, mr. ortega asked and democratically obtained from the nicaraguans what he called a new opportunity. now we know why he wanted it. since then, arbitrariness, nepotism and corruption have taken root in government institutions, culminating in the electoral fraud of the november 9 elections. in the past, very serious decisions were taken, such as the cancellation of the legal personality of some opposition parties, or threats and intimidation of members of civil society, journalists and the media. president ortega described the governments of the european union as flies swarming on dirt and described the foreign aid that nicaragua received as crumbs. he soon realized that there was not enough venezuelan oil to do without that development aid. when we are about to enter a decisive phase in the negotiation of an association agreement between the european union and central america, the nicaraguan government should know that it will always find in us an ally and a friend, but that for us the demand for respect for human rights, freedom of expression and democracy in general is a condition which we do not renounce because we believe that the nicaraguan people in particular benefit from this.
on 9 november last, municipal elections were held in nicaragua. as in previous occasions, this electoral process has been called into question from the point of view of democratic legitimacy, with accusations of fraud and demonstrations and clashes between supporters of different political parties, resulting in numerous injuries and a deepening of the political crisis that this country has been suffering. two political parties have been unable to stand in local elections, which is unacceptable because it curtails the fundamental right of all citizens to political participation. we have also received direct testimony from representatives of human rights organisations who have informed us of the existence of a challenge to the judicial system by civil society, of the existence of administrative mechanisms of repression which have brought up to 17 organisations of social movements before the courts, and of the persecution of independent journalists and even the delegation of the european commission. for all this, we want to raise our voice and make an appeal, first to the political parties to condemn the acts of violence carried out by their supporters, and secondly, to the government itself to reopen spaces for citizen participation, respect freedom of expression, stop banning marches and all ngos can receive aid from international cooperation, not only venezuela's aid for pro-government associations. i would also like to see the abolition of the penalisation of therapeutic abortion in cases where the mother's life is in danger. and finally, we also want to ask the commission to remind nicaragua, in the negotiations on the association agreement between central america and the european union, that it must respect the principles of the rule of law, democracy and human rights, all without prejudice to our continuing european support for the development and well-being of the nicaraguan people, who we wish to have the best possible future.
on behalf of the green group, i am sorry for the confusion that has arisen earlier with the order of my speech. human rights and freedom are the most important pillars of the european union and must also be at the basis of our dialogue with russia. but the list of violations is growing every day and the difficulty for human rights activists to work with is also growing every day. in recent months, among many others, there have been several human rights violations. the home of stanislav dmitrievsky, an adviser to the nizhny novgorod foundation for the promotion of tolerance, was attacked, armed troops kidnapped and beat zurab tsetchoev, a human rights defender in ingushetia, and relatives of ilyas timishev, a human rights lawyer, were detained and interrogated and suffered ill-treatment. i should also remind you that on 12 december the spanish government decided to extradite to russia murat gasayev, a citizen of that country from chechnya, who was arrested by the russian secret services in 2004 and tortured for three days, according to amnesty international. gasayev fled to spain, where he sought asylum in 2005. his request was refused on the basis of a confidential report drawn up by the spanish authorities to which neither he nor his lawyer had access. the spanish state is a signatory to the convention against torture and the extradition is based on diplomatic guarantees given by the russian authorities to proceed with the extradition. countless reports by human rights organizations have repeatedly expressed concern about the use of torture in the russian federation, particularly in the north caucasus republics such as chechnya and ingushetia. if murat gasayev is extradited, there is a real danger that he will be subjected to torture and other ill-treatment once in russian custody. i would like to conclude - and i will use the minute of the ad hoc intervention, as agreed - by quoting the words of a colleague from the group, mr horáček, who recalled last july that the prisoners in the yukos case, mikhail khodorkovsky and platon lebedev, are being held in the siberian prison of chita. and there are others. i would therefore like to ask that we do everything in our power to secure their release, but also to encourage russia to make freedom of opinion and of the press a reality and not to hinder the work of ngos, as all these aspects are of the utmost importance for our common european future.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. i think the presidency is aware of this and if not, i could make it clear to you.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the region is not affected by the unrest.
the author. - with regard to the text of recital a, the socialist group proposed as an oral amendment the reference to 'allegation' in the singular instead of the plural 'allegations'.
the author. - in recital f, instead of 'criminal investigations', we propose 'judicial investigations', that is to say, we propose replacing 'criminal' by 'judicial'.
