mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. for some time now, our eyes have been on georgia. the presidential election is over, and now the results are finally in. the revolution is eating its children. i think that's what president saakashvili was afraid of, and he went a little overboard. the use of physical force by a state is not a sign of its strength but of its weakness. to be objective, it must be said that after the repression of the unrest, georgia at least tried to conduct the elections democratically. but democracy is not the issue. it's a mindset and it can't be lifted from one day or from one country to another. a considerable opposition is born in georgia. the development of democracy requires helping the ruling circles to understand its nature as a component of the democratic environment. georgia must find the strength to overcome the crisis. parliamentary elections are coming up. the country needs and the people expect further democratic reforms. it would be wrong for us in the european union to bet on one person. we must support the institutions, provide expertise, and honestly and directly point out the steps that are not compatible with democracy. in conclusion, i would like to say that what is happening in georgia is perhaps the key to armenia. there's a presidential election coming up.
on behalf of the alde group. mr commissioner, mr president, and colleagues! i am pleased that the european parliament has reached a decision on the european union strategy on the rights of the child, because policies that support children's rights are the foundation of tomorrow's society. the values and the livelihood of prospective parents determine the course of society and the state. i thank the rapporteur for preparing such a comprehensive document. it is rational that the principles reflected in the un convention on the rights of the child and its additional protocols should also be taken as a basis for the development of the european union strategy on the rights of the child. however, in order to make the eu strategy on the rights of the child more effective and to be implemented jointly by all 27 member states, it should provide more specifically for implementing measures to be supported by the european union in addition to the member states. the strategy is all-encompassing, i don't have time to stop everyone. for my part, i took up the recommendation in the european union's strategy on the rights of the child to introduce a child helpline number throughout the european union as a positive, fully operational initiative, which we have been practising in estonia for three years now and - i assure you - it is working successfully. i would like to draw attention to two important target groups whose rights i think we should focus more on. first, such a target group would be children with disabilities. i believe that our strategy on the rights of the child should pay more attention to ensuring the rights of children with disabilities, so that they, like other target groups, have real guaranteed opportunities and equal opportunities to participate actively in society. as a second target group, i would like to emphasise the issue of safeguarding the rights of children without parental care. no doubt every child has a right to a family. sadly, not all of our children today have the opportunity to grow up in a family environment, living in orphanages. we have not paid enough attention to children leaving the orphanage, i.e. 18-19 year olds who are legally adults but not socially, and we should start doing so.
in a world where a third of the world's children do not have enough to eat and where a sixth of them are not in school, it is a little strange to talk about poverty in a european context. but it is a problem, and what is particularly worrying is the fact that, compared to adults, the number of children who are deprived is much higher. true, most of the time it is not an empty stomach but a lack of opportunities for development. i would draw your attention to the fact that in the new member states the rapid development of the market economy has led to a great stratification, which has a particularly strong impact on the well-being of children. social problems, in turn, increase the violence. and it's not just the tragedy of the children. a large part of the human resource - the one that is most lacking in my home country, estonia, for example - is not used and is therefore also a problem for the member states and the union. while most child-related policies are the responsibility of the member states, i would like to stress the importance of the european union strategy, indicators, data sets and reports. i hope that their impact on member states will increase even more. as a politician, i know how hard it is to explain to your constituents why, for example, neighbors care more about children.
my dear colleagues! the 2004 enlargement eased the european union's economic growth rate, leading to an unjustified sense of security. but today, the economic downturn is already creating social tensions in the new member states. i'm talking about the draft employment contract law that is currently dividing my home country of estonia. in anticipation of redundancies, estonian businesses try to leave the social consequences of job loss to the redundant in particular. maybe the weaker side - the contractor who lost his job - once again doesn't know what to punish. in the absence of effective action, both safe flexibility and lifelong learning are reduced to mere words, with the weakest members of society deprived of the necessary tools. the pension is adjusted according to the increase in average age, and a 45-year-old worker has completed less than half his career. it means new beginnings in the middle. however, age and gender discrimination is still an undeniable reality in workplaces around the world, including in the european union. having children at an increasingly older age means that it is twice as difficult for women to return to the labour market. a lifelong learning program is an opportunity to at least somehow compensate for the injustice that now prevails. employers should be encouraged to invest in people with life experience in every possible way. employers need to be convinced that the knowledge and skills acquired in other areas of life, even household management, are of the highest value. i would like to stress once again that the lifelong learning system only complements social security, it does not replace it. even if the driver is inexperienced, he still needs to be buckled in. i thank and congratulate the rapporteur on her good work. thank you, doris pack. thank you very much.
mr president, slovenia is the first member state which, having suffered under totalitarian communism, can now take the lead in europe as a whole. therefore it is your historic challenge and chance, prime minster, to take the lead also in promoting integration of different historic experiences, to create a united and balanced perception of our history as a common european history. i think you, and all of us, need to be confident that the mass murders which happened under communism will never be repeated again. this can only happen if, in europe as a whole, we pass the same moral and political verdict on totalitarian communism as was passed on nazism.
madam president, i voted in favour of the pack report, since one of the purposes of lifelong learning is to increase the flexibility of the labour market. for people over 50, which also concerns me, such a policy creates a wider range of opportunities to react to changes in the labour market and adapt to the situation without major repercussions. the report emphasises the positive effect of lifelong learning on social inclusion and employability, which in any case should not be disregarded in an ageing society, for example in my home country, estonia.
ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament's delegation to south asia warned the pakistani government of benazir bhutto's weak security measures back in november. unfortunately, our fears of terrorism have been confirmed. benazir bhutto will remain a hero to the people of pakistan and the international community. his absence from the list of candidates calls into question the legitimacy of the forthcoming elections. but the crisis in pakistan is also an opportunity to put that country on the path to democracy. the pakistanis did not elect general musharraf as president. but he has a choice now: to go down in history as a military dictator or a democratic president. as a statesman, musharraf should surely understand that democracy must win the elections, even if he has to abdicate. and that's what we want to ask musharraf directly at the foreign affairs committee meeting in brussels next week. the european union must continue its dialogue with pakistan. that is why we must send, as the commission rightly said, our observers to the elections on february 18. what happens in pakistan cannot be an american matter. the european union also attaches great importance to a transparent international investigation into the murder of ms bhutto, the full restoration of press freedom and free and fair elections in pakistan. we're not gonna get where we're going by playing the sidekick. we have no choice but to pursue an active policy in our relations with pakistan.
the honourable commissioner, the president, my dear colleagues. the european union's interest and objective in the south caucasus is to support and encourage the development of the three countries in the region towards open, peaceful and stable states. the neighbourhood policy is working, but it also requires the development of a regional policy. but we must not ignore the specificities of these three countries, otherwise our policies will not work. i stress again, the south caucasian countries armenia, azerbaijan and georgia are very different in their culture, customs, religion and geopolitical position. what they have in common is their background - they've all been ripped out of the soviet ideology, which lasted for almost 100 years. but not yet fully free of the presence of the troops of the legal successor of the soviet union russia . these countries need, and their people want, democratic reforms, and they need the european union's substantive and targeted assistance. the commission's delegations in yerevan and baku are expected and called for to resume their work immediately. however, the work of the eusr for the south caucasus in its current form is not sufficient. it is not clear why the special representative's reports have not been available to the european parliament for years. this situation must be changed. we're all working towards the same goal. but we must not forget that democracy is not a thing, it is a mindset, and it cannot simply be raised from one day or from one country to another. a perfect democracy is not born overnight. we are not happy with everything that is happening in armenia or azerbaijan or georgia, whether it is the fight against corruption or the judicial system or the situation in the media. these countries themselves are not satisfied. we are able to actively support them, both institutionally, through expertise and financial support. any help that matters is welcome in the area today. i therefore call on the commission and the european parliament to make greater use of the expertise of the south caucasus peers of yesterday and the member states of the european union of today. we know the local conditions and problems, and our experience in building the rule of law and the market economy would be a practical help to them.
madam president, i would inform the commissioner that, along with several colleagues, i am convinced the eu has to demonstrate increased engagement in the south caucasus. after all, all the states in that region are already members of the council of europe and, as such, are part of europe. the extended neighbourhood policies will be a valuable tool for applying such an engagement in real terms. our challenge and chance is to play the role of a reliable stabiliser, but also that of an independent mediator and supporter of the democratic process. we therefore need to leave behind hesitations and ambiguity. it is high time to profile eu policies more clearly in this area. the eu representative, peter semneby, has done an outstanding job, and i am glad, commissioner, that you spoke about increasing and widening our representations in the region. long-term, active eu engagement will certainly contribute to also finding a solution to the frozen conflicts which the committee on foreign affairs has decided to term, more realistically, ‘unresolved, post-soviet conflicts’. therefore, it is significant that the report rejects attempts by any foreign power to create exclusive zones of interest in the region, and urges russia not to oppose eu engagement in conflict management and peacekeeping operations. equally important, however, will be the eu’s role in advancing the culture of democratic dialogue in the region. the european parliament will have an important part to play in this. members of parliament can mediate and encourage normal political dialogue between opposing parties. finally, it is important that the report encourages the commission to move towards possible free trade agreements with armenia and georgia, and to make preparations for a mobility partnership agreement between the eu and georgia. so, the south caucasus has become increasingly close and important for us. that region deserves our firm commitment.
in writing. the report approaches the region regionally, which has its own advantages, but does not allow for a good enough presentation of the differences between the countries of the transcaucasia. i urge us to notice the differences between countries, because otherwise we do to others what we would not want done to us in any case. secondly, the text of the report may have given the impression that georgia is the most problematic country in the region, as i have seen in the debates of the various committees of this parliament and in the debates of the political groups, where members have expressed themselves in this way. but even with recent events, that's not really the case, and we know it. unfortunately, the violence of the tbilisi protests has received much more international attention than the daily human rights violations in azerbaijan, for example, which are often overlooked due to its large energy reserves. however, in terms of the economic or human rights situation, the development of democratic institutions and media freedom, georgia is a country that has clearly chosen the democratic path and is moving forward more vigorously than the others. and therefore deserving of our greater support.
in writing. – as a member of the european parliament from estonia i am glad to inform you that one fifth of the members of the estonian parliament took part in election observation missions in georgia. according to the international election observation mission, the elections held on january 5 were ‘in essence consistent with most international standards for democratic elections, but significant challenges were revealed which need to be addressed urgently’. although some irregularities were discovered and pointed out, it is utterly irresponsible to give way to more friction in georgia. especially by endangering the legitimacy of the elections in the eyes of the georgian people by creating a doubt that in principle the elections were not held free and fair. it is my belief that the politicians in the neighbouring countries and even in the eu, who have chosen to remain sceptical and extremely vocal as well, have not acted in the best interest of further sustainable development and consolidation of democracy in georgia, the importance of which this report clearly stresses.
member of the commission. − madam president, i wish to thank members of for a very interesting discussion, and will take this opportunity to answer some of their questions. in reply to ms figueiredo, it is true that the equal programme finishes in 2008, but the european social fund regulation for 2007-2013 incorporates gender equality as a horizontal priority. in reply to ms bauer, we had the first reading of the important legislation issue you mentioned – the transferability of pension rights – in june 2007, and the epsco council dealt with it in december 2007. we hope to make quick progress during 2008. in reply to ms jäätteenmäki – i realise that she is not in the chamber, but her question was very important, so i would like to answer it – the commission adopted, in july 2007, the communication on ‘tackling the pay gap between men and women’. in that communication, the commission announced that in 2008 it would examine the relevance of current legislation from the point of view of the relevance of legal instruments with regard to the causes of the pay gap and, where necessary, propose amendments to the community legal framework. following this examination the commission could propose any necessary changes to the current legal framework. in reply to ms romeva i rueda, anti-discrimination and gender equality legislation does not preclude member states from developing and implementing positive actions. the commission supports there being a higher proportion of women in decision-making. we will create a network of women in decision-making posts, probably during 2008. in reply to ms flasarová, we cannot prevent companies from delocalising, but we have instruments to tackle that issue. in 2007, the european globalisation fund was quite promptly set up for this purpose. in reply to ms ek, concerning statistics, the commission continues to cooperate with eurostat to develop specific statistics on equality. the dublin foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions takes into account gender equality in its regular reports. in 2009, there will be a regular publication on the research statistics on women. in reply to mrs doyle, concerning maternity leave, the commission is to prepare an impact evaluation on possible legislative measures introducing new forms of leave – adoption leave, and leave to care for family members other than children.
in writing. – the lisbon targets set in 2000 will certainly not be achieved by 2010 as originally intended. the current gender structures and attitudes play an important role in this failure. europe is not adequately using the potential of the half of its population. women do not have equal opportunities for achievement in the high-value-added industry. moreover, women are not adequately represented in social dialogue. neither employers’ organisations nor the trade unions and the public sector have enough women in high-level positions. it is remarkable and alarming that the future of work and the future of society are decided by the half of the population which does not take equal responsibility for raising the children and maintaining the household. increasingly, antisocial measures such as increasing unreported overtime and uncompensated flexibility of workers are used to increase productivity. the price we pay for this illusory increase is too high. the member states should significantly increase the emphasis on gender equality in social dialogue. simultaneously, many member states should strengthen the role which social dialogue has in setting the policy. women have the highest potential to accelerate the development of our high-tech industry. europe must use it.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, among other items, the public service value of the internet was discussed in rio de janeiro on 13 november 2007. nowadays, the most limited asset of european citizens is time, and it is vital for the governments of the member states to introduce public services on the internet. my home country, estonia, has done much in this field: e-voting, e-tax declarations, e-government and e-registry office are only a few examples of successful ‘e’-projects that could be implemented across europe. i know that it is much easier to reform a small country, where approximately 66% of the inhabitants use the internet. however, moving public services to the internet is worth the effort. one of the prerequisites for the functioning of democracy is participation. ‘e’-solutions provide the possibility of participation with minimal effort: there are no queues or officials exercising the right of discretion. the internet gives citizens more independence and ensures impartial administration of their affairs. however, it is essential to start such education from an early stage in schools. on the other hand, computer literacy has succeeded where esperanto failed – it has become the most universal language – and efforts should be made not only to bridge the digital gap at regional and global levels, but bearing in mind the different age groups and social strata. last but not least, the european parliament often seems to occupy itself with producing immense volumes of paper. why not upgrade our tools of democracy and implement paperless administration?
madam president, the case of mr hu jia and his wife, unfortunately, is not an isolated one. in order to have the privilege to host this year’s olympic games in beijing, the chinese government undertook additional commitments to meet internationally recognised human rights standards. contrary to these expectations, beijing sees the olympic games as a justification for increasing repression against human rights activists. so, by systematically violating its own commitments, the chinese government has demonstrated that it does not intend to respect the core values of the olympic tradition. in fact, it is about to lose its credibility. therefore, the democratic states cannot limit their reaction to mere complaints. if the chinese authorities do not make credible changes to the situation, then the democratic participants in the games risk their own credibility with regard to the values they advocate.
in writing. – last week president putin and first deputy prime minister medvedev of the russian federation signed a treaty in sofia on constructing a gas pipeline called ‘south stream’ across the black sea. right now, when the lisbon treaty is about to be ratified, it seems rather odd that bulgaria did not consult its european partners. union policy on energy aims, in a spirit of solidarity between member states, to ensure security of energy supply in the union. experts have perceived a threat in south stream to the nabucco project, which is included in the eu trans-european energy network. in my opinion, bulgaria has acted in a very disappointing way by signing a bilateral agreement on energy with the russian federation. although nabucco was named after an opera by giuseppe verdi, the current state of play resembles more an operetta or farce.
in writing. – as my colleague michael gahler has said, the current resolution is following the line of six powers to keep up pressure on iran. as i see it, the practical problem is how this resolution will be perceived by the iranian regime. in a situation where the big players in international politics are not willing or able to agree on applying serious sanctions to iran, there is hardly any chance that this resolution will make a difference. however, there is still one way – as yet untried – to make an impact. this is to give a chance to the iranian opposition movement by ending its political suppression by eu governments. the european court of first instance in december 2006, and the british courts last november, ruled that there are absolutely no grounds to isolate the iranian opposition like this. freeing the hands of iranian opposition for peaceful activities will provide the eu not only with efficient leverage to influence the regime of mullahs but will open a third and more realistic option between wishful diplomacy, on the one hand, and usa-type military intervention on the other. if our sincere intention is to bring about a positive change in iran, let us give this third option a chance.
in writing. i support the liberalisation of the market as soon as possible and welcome the directive which lays the foundations for completing the internal market in postal services. in estonia, the closure of small post offices has caused public anger, but it is clear that the introduction of new technologies such as the internet has reduced the need for traditional postal services. in the context of competition, a new type of internet-based services may emerge, which is welcome. however, i understand the need for a delay in certain member states. however, it is important to apply the principle of 'counter-measures' by allowing member states the possibility of refusing to open the market to postal operators from neighbouring countries with protected rights. it is important that, at the same time, universal postal services are guaranteed for all, including those in the periphery and on the islands. the postal service must be affordable, of high quality and accessible to all. the cost-effectiveness requirement for universal postal services needs to be clarified as this concept has been treated differently in the member states. i believe that it is justified to require the universal postal service provider to allocate all services in its cost accounting.
mr president, yesterday the russian state-funded youth organisation nashi published the list of estonians whom they propose to declare personae non gratae in russia. amongst them, next to the president of the republic of estonia, toomas-hendrik ilves, a former mep, is my friend and colleague, tunne kelam, a member of the delegation to the eu-russia parliamentary cooperation committee. nashi, supporting the non-democratic regime of president putin, describes mr kelam as a consistent russophobe, who has been notable for his nervousness and unhealthy homespun nationalism. all of us who know mr kelam well are perfectly aware that those heartless words are complete lies. in my opinion, the european parliament should react to this insult. but, on the other hand, being an enemy of the enemies of democracy in russia is quite a grand compliment to mr kelam and his efforts.
ladies and gentlemen, the persecution of mr kinnock, head of the british council's st petersburg office, and his colleagues, by the russian authorities, up to the point of questioning, requires the utmost attention. the charges against the british council are links in a chain that includes cyber attacks against estonia, a polish food blockade and a radioactive assassination in london. on all occasions, the kremlin has innocently claimed that this is an isolated problem. fellas, this number of isolated cases points to a system. russian foreign minister lavrov said bluntly on thursday that transforming the architecture of europe will become a priority of russian foreign policy in 2008. russia wants to reshape the european union, crippling our foreign policy will and pushing us between the energy jugs of north stream and south stream. if we don't want to become the helpless object of russia's powerful foreign policy, we must be in solidarity with each other at every step. the european parliament, we must condemn the persecution of the british council.
in writing. – first of all i would like to congratulate ms hall on a truly comprehensive report, dedicated to improving energy efficiency and calling on the member states that are far behind the implementation of existing legislation to take all the necessary measures. secondly, i am glad to concede that the report has not only pointed out ways for industrial consumers to save energy, but for small consumers as well – especially by means of raising consumer awareness and providing reliable information of the most environment-friendly options. it must be noted that the consumption of households accounts for 40% of overall energy consumption. therefore it is an individual responsibility for all of us to contribute to maximise energy efficiency. thirdly, energy consumption is progressively increasing and so does the expenditure on energy. it is simple common sense to enforce measures for energy efficiency in order to gain the optimal use of means of production.
in writing. – together we have been working towards minimising the necessity of special intervention units. however good the units and their cooperation are, an ounce of prevention is still better than a pound of cure. i believe that the certainty of coordinated and powerful response will go a long way towards making any hostage takers, terrorists or desperate criminals think twice. this means that there should be no unnecessary obstacles, no incentives to compromise our security for the sake of procedural rules. i think it is possible that the currently envisaged network of bilateral agreements will serve our needs adequately. only close neighbours can guarantee rapid reaction, which mostly goes together with the need for special intervention. on the other hand, in the case that several member states are attacked simultaneously, as is the clear possibility with cyber-attacks, we do need transparency and a certain consistency of arrangements throughout the european union. this report is a part of complex equation, the result of which might change as new data comes in. we should not view the current arrangement as permanent one. we must be ready to develop this cooperation into a community policy. my congratulations to the rapporteur.
mr president, next sunday, on 24 february, estonians will celebrate the 90th anniversary of the birth of their independent statehood. in spite of being a relatively young state, estonia has been part of european cultural heritage and shared values since the 13th century. however, a special feature of the 90 years since the proclamation of independence that we share with our neighbours – latvians and lithuanians – is that we have enjoyed freedom for only 39 years, because of foreign occupations. therefore, i would like to recall one important fact: exactly 25 years ago, the european parliament, as the first european institution to do so, reacted to the appeal of 45 freedom fighters from lithuania, latvia and estonia, and adopted a resolution supporting the idea of restoring sovereignty to the three occupied baltic nations. i would like to thank all previous and current members of the european parliament who courageously expressed solidarity with the three baltic nations.
mr president, i am seriously concerned by the misconception that a colleague of mine, sahra wagenknecht, spread in an interview with the russian news agency ‘regnum’ on 7 february this year. she accused the estonian government of disregarding human rights, and the european union of conducting a silent cover-up with regard to the ‘bronze night’ and the trials that followed in estonia. i can assure you that the ongoing trials of the people accused of organising the riots are being carried out in accordance with the rule of law and with respect for human rights. i would also like to remind my colleague that one of the purposes of the state is to guard the sanctity of private property. the marauding in tallinn last year had nothing to do with freedom of expression or the right to demonstrate. criminal acts were committed, and that is why the state was obliged to intervene. justification of crime is no ennoblement to a politician and, fortunately, the views of sahra wagenknecht cannot to be said to extend to all the political left.
mr president, on 14 december 2007 the european council asked the commission to present an eu strategy for the baltic sea region by july 2009 at the latest, an initiative that was also welcomed by the european parliament. the importance of this decision cannot be underestimated either by the nordic countries or by the member states around the baltic sea that joined in 2004. the strategy might truly unleash the full potential of the region covering areas from the environment, economy, culture and education to security. by aiming to achieve the ambition laid out in the lisbon agenda, the eu strategy for the baltic sea region could become a bridgehead to russia. sweden will hold the presidency in the council during the second half of 2009, and we hope that this will give a good start to the strategy. however, it is essential that all the baltic sea countries have compiled their operational programmes by that time, and this also applies to my country, estonia.
in writing. – i welcome the efforts to fulfil the goals of the lisbon strategy, but i am not very convinced that fulfilling its plans is practically possible by the set deadline. it is, therefore, highly important to emphasise the knowledge-driven society. spending on science in the eu is less than in the us and today we are facing the fact that we cannot compete on the world market in the field of inventions or technology. the eu and its member states have to put more effort and allocate more financial resources to developing and updating european education and science. the baltic sea has become an internal sea of the european union, showing stable, high economic growth. the baltic sea region has the potential to become one of the most competitive regions in the world. the baltic sea strategy foresees sustainable development and growth, it foresees and maps all the areas which can be further developed, and therefore can in reality become maybe the only region actually fulfilling the lisbon strategy. therefore i strongly urge the eu, and especially the member states around the baltic sea, to use this strategy to its fullest. the baltic sea strategy has the potential to become a success story of lisbon strategy.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. unfortunately, the european union discovered central asia relatively late for itself, and i am not sure that we still fully understand the economic and security importance of this region. a look at this room will tell you it's not the most popular place. but in any case, the central asia strategy adopted last year under the german presidency and this report by the european parliament are both good steps forward. i congratulate the rapporteur and thank her for her very pleasant and constructive cooperation. the main issues affecting central asia are covered in this report, including security issues, the fight against terrorism, energy, the fight against poverty, drug trafficking, human trafficking, environmental problems, as well as the development of relations with the european union, regional cooperation and the challenges of globalisation. it is important to have a regional approach, but also to take account of the specificities of each country, because although they are one region, they are quite different from each other. the most important aspect of this report is the balance between economic aspects and human rights. as these are countries with limited resources, there is a danger that our relations could be dominated by interests over values. the situation is further complicated by the lack of democratic experience in central asia, which has led to many problems in implementing international standards. and the situation is further complicated by traditional clan relations and the continuing legacy of the soviet era. and so it may seem that we use the same words, such as human rights, freedom of speech, freedom of the media, but we fill them with quite different content. so it's not going to be easy cooperation, but we have to take advantage of the interest that the central asian countries have in the european union. but we're not their only lifeline. russia has been very vigorously rebuilding its relations there in recent years, as have the asian countries. at the same time, the eu is better placed than ever to develop its relations, drawing on the links and experience of the now-eu baltic states and other former central asian members. finally, it is very important to increase our presence in the region, as the commissioner has said, and since central asia is a region where young people make up the majority of the population, unlike the european union, our projects should be directed primarily at them.
in writing. the lisbon treaty is the european union's most topical issue, because it is about europe's future and how to navigate a world that is changing faster than we are over the years. i have three observations. 1) first, to welcome the fact that france, which was at the origin of the crisis following the failure of the referendums, ratified the first 'old european' treaty, setting an example for others that the construction of europe must continue. 2) secondly, i hope that when ratified, the member states will not instrumentalise the agreement, as happened in slovakia, where the opposition, which was otherwise in favour of the agreement, made ratification a precondition for the ruling party to withdraw a draft law that the opposition does not want to accept. eu-related issues should not be torpedoed by national details! 3) finally, i hope that the reform agreement will finally stop confusing some european politicians and that the current agreements will also be well handled. on the contrary, globalisation requires not only a greater commitment to delivering on aspirations, but also a broader willingness to compromise in shaping the union's policies, and this can only be achieved with a new founding document.
in writing. – it is unfortunate that the european union stands divided on the issue of kosovo. the european union has taken a longstanding commitment to secure stability in the western balkans and, as the most influential supranational organisation of the continent, we need to convey a clear message and speak with one voice. peace and security in kosovo ought to be a priority for the union, since it neighbours the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, a candidate country to the eu, and we should play a leading role as a mediator between serbia and kosovo. it will not be an easy task, when there is no agreement in the union, whether to recognise the independence of kosovo in corpore or not. current indecisive behaviour of the union creates only more confusion in kosovo. the member states need to find a way through their differences in order to start carrying out our commitment to the region.
the honourable commissioner, the president, the honourable members. the average birth rate in europe today is 1.5 , which means that there is no population growth. the situation in the member states has been analysed and surveys have shown that on average, two to three children are desired. we see that the will and the reality are not in line. it's the 21st century, and for a long time, women have not been content with the role of housewife and nanny. they are educated, they want to work, they want to have a career, their earnings from work will provide a better standard of living for their families. but we have to be able to influence the birth rate. create a situation where the number of children that families want is also realized. our families need a sense of security that a child does not interrupt a career, that is, work and family life must be reconciled in the best possible way. and that's true for mothers and fathers. parents want to feel confident that they can provide their children with a good education, participation in recreational activities, and, if necessary, government financial support. you don't have kids without a sense of security. increasing the population by immigration alone is a fool's errand. immigration is only a partial and short-term solution. we need to focus more on innovation, not immigration issues. the time is not right to talk about all the implications, but i would like to stress that the demographic situation depends on many decisions, on many legal rules, from labour and family law to the environment and security. finally, i would like to thank mrs castex for her important report, which has such strong female empathy.
in writing. – europe is not ready for the challenges posed by our demography. for 60 years, europe has put its trust in a pyramid scheme. it works as long as every generation is much larger than the previous one. but, today, european families are raising fewer children than their parents. i would like to point out that in the 21st century the low birth rates present less of an economical danger than they did 60 years ago. progress of technology lets us produce much more goods with much less labour. globalisation means that the countries with young and growing populations will help us to carry the pension burden, if our policies allow it. my country, estonia, is a great example of a successful transition to a funded pension scheme. at the same time, estonia feels that low birth rates endanger the sustainability of our culture, maybe even nationhood. this is the problem of many smaller nations. if we want to preserve europe as we know it, we must protect our cultures also by protecting our families. we, the policymakers, must to make sure that technology and globalisation are our servants, not masters. this report is a good start.
madam president, when voting on the guellec report on cohesion policy, i could not support compromise amendment 4, which calls for ‘increased financial resources for cohesion policy’ in the future. automatically increasing eu subsidies is not, perhaps, the most responsible approach when we have the practical problem of making a meaningful and efficient use of them. instead, i am in favour of using the term ‘sufficient financial resources’.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, east timor is certainly not a failed state. however, the fact that on 11 february 2008 both the democratically elected president and the prime minister became victims of armed attempts on their lives is proof of how fragile a young democracy can be. i should like to make three points. first, we are really worried about the lack of timely and efficient reaction by unpol and other international forces to these attacks. second, the eu has a responsibility to assist the democratic institutions of east timor and to consolidate the rule-of-law system there. the motion for a resolution rightly emphasises the urgent need to reach a national agreement on core issues of democracy. third, the eu, in full cooperation with the un, has to contribute to the reform of the security sector in east timor. east timor, after all, is not as far from us as it may seem, and ms gomes is good proof of this.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to the continuing repression against young belarusian democrats. in mid-january, several of them were imprisoned for 15 days and then excluded from university. there are some specific names: zmitser zhaleznichenka, anton kalinouski and franak viachorka. i invite eu universities to offer these brave young people alternative options to continue their studies, to facilitate the provision of visas and to add to the eu blacklist the names of those university officials who have consented to use them as tools in the lukashenko oppressions.
my dear colleagues! belarus is a black spot on the map of europe. it is a situation that is similar to the life behind the iron curtain, which many of my colleagues in this chamber have experienced for themselves. i remember the desire for freedom that most estonians felt. it was kept alive in northern estonia by finnish radio and television, as well as radio free europe and voice of america. this is the window to the world that all belarusians need. on december 10, human rights day, the belsat tv station was launched in poland, with the mission to transform belarus into a civil society. the most important contributors to the belarusian and russian-language station are belarusian journalists fighting for democracy. the program is now being watched by the 10 percent of belarusians who have a satellite dish. poland, ireland, lithuania, the czech republic and the united states have joined the network. good television, my dear friends, cannot be made cheap. i therefore call on the european commission and all member states to support belsat financially. i consider it a sacred duty of us democrats.
mr president, i would like to make three points. firstly, it is crucial that freedom of services should be applied in all member states. i am following the messages of my colleagues mr hökmark and mr harbour. secondly, support for small enterprises to enable them to share and use the fruits of innovation: the small business act is clearly necessary. thirdly, as regards the lisbon strategy, i would ask you, president barroso, to remind the european council that implementation of the baltic sea strategy you kindly supported could become a practical contribution to the lisbon strategy and, indeed, maybe one of its success stories.
madam president, this is a message from the european parliament to the council on the need to have a european strategy for iraq. it is time to stop arguing about recent differences and to concentrate on the eu’s proactive engagement there. i would like to thank the commissioner for a thorough account of the situation in iraq, and there is cautious optimism in the air. i think there is an understanding that things could become better. this is what ms gomes so eloquently described as a golden opportunity for a positive contribution the eu could make. for me, two points are essential. for parliament it is important to channel eu support for building democratic governance, and this was met with great interest on the part of iraqi politicians. second, the eu is in an exceptional position to support the reconciliation process, and without this there could be only disintegration and further domestic warfare, so we need to make use of this opportunity.
in writing. – several member states of the eu have sent their troops to iraq to participate in the multinational force, united nations assistance mission and nato-sponsored training of the iraqi police force, estonia being one of those countries. the humanitarian situation cannot be improved in iraq unless peace and stability in the country is established. unfortunately, both republican and democrat presidential candidates in the usa argue for withdrawing from iraq, which will irresponsibly leave the country in a devastating situation. i am confident that, if the european union increased its involvement in iraq by contributing funds, human resources and know-how in state-building, the deterioration of the country could be avoided. the european union should play a vital role in iraq as a mediator between different political and religious factions to establish a well-functioning society.
in writing. – i strongly call on eu member states to adopt the eu code of conduct on arms transfers. the eu is based on common values and agreements, condemning illegal arms transfer and also arms transfer to countries which violate those values. in fact, it is detrimental to the principles on which the european community is based that several member states’ governments give preference to their national political and commercial interests in continuing to sell arms. the lisbon treaty strengthens the role of the eu as global player. therefore, it is of utmost importance that we take the eu code of conduct on arms transfers seriously in order to implement it in real terms and by all member states. therefore, i would like to call upon the council to give a plausible explanation why the adoption of this common position has been delayed.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on tuesday the president of the republic of estonia, mr toomas hendrik ilves, said that we should cast aside the term ‘new member states’. that is also part of the title of ms budreikaitė’s report. although i agree in principle with my president, the term has a positive connotation as well, involving innovation and readiness for reforms. today’s report gives a comprehensive overview of the progress that the new donor countries in the european union – that were the recipients of similar help a decade ago – have made in the field of development cooperation, pointing out both the shortcomings and the potential for further increase in the contribution to the eu development cooperation policy. in 1970 the united nations agreed upon the target of 0.7% of gdp for development assistance to eradicate extreme poverty – the most humiliating state for human beings. dear colleagues, do not forget that this concerns approximately one third of the world’s population. unfortunately, the efforts made so far are clearly not enough. no new member state has reached the target. the same applies to the old member states, with the exception of denmark, luxembourg, the netherlands and sweden. norway, although not a member of the eu, has also achieved the same goal. i would like to thank ms budreikaitė for the extensive work that she has done in compiling the draft report and accommodating the amendments made by me and my colleagues on the committee on development. the rapporteur has been elected from a new donor country and her report will definitely be studied in great detail in those countries, including estonia. finally, the european consensus on development is committed to a further increase of the designated funds and i encourage all the member states to take it seriously. this report is a praiseworthy document that once again reminds us of our commitments, and i urge all of my colleagues to support it.
i would like to thank the rapporteur for a well-timed and balanced report. i have a few comments on the issues raised both in the earlier discussions of the report and in the debate here today. the idea that the people in the new member states have a modest attitude towards development cooperation and humanitarian aid. i think there's a very important role here in informing the public. in estonia, a comparative study was carried out today and three years ago, but even the figures from three years ago show that awareness of development cooperation had improved so much - not only in the institutions but also among the people - that this in turn allowed for a large budgetary contribution or an increase in it. it's important for the public to know that money isn't going to one big black hole, but to specific countries for specific projects. estonian development cooperation is based on the principle that developing countries are primarily responsible for their own development, since they cannot do anything by force. close cooperation is therefore particularly important and a very good example of this is the cooperation between estonia and georgia. so i welcome article 17 of the report, which says that the big challenge is to increase budgets and raise awareness, especially among the people. for example, if estonia's total contribution to international development cooperation was 0.09% of its gross national product in 2006, today we believe that the funds should be increased and we are trying to achieve by 2011 that it is 0.17% of the gross national product, in accordance with the development cooperation programme adopted in 2006. i am glad that the proposals of my colleagues, the estonian colleagues, were taken into account in the preparation of the report and i think that this is a very fundamental change, where the new member states have become donors of aid rather than recipients of aid, and i hope that this support will continue to grow.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this amendment, because i strongly believe that fighting against violence, in this case sexual violence against women in crises and conflict areas, has to be the highest priority. the eu cannot tolerate any kind of violence and therefore i find that the emphasis should be on fighting against sexual violence targeted against women. furthermore i think that traditions are not to be seen as something evil. sexual and reproductive health and rights are sensitive issues, including traditional societal and also religious dimensions, and therefore should not be generalised and thereby forced upon societies, especially fragile societies, where drastic changes in traditional ways of living can harm the fragile society more than they bring benefits.
in writing. mr president, i would just like to say that i regret that i do not support my group's position to remain neutral in the vote on the russian resolution. yes, we also need a resolution, with president-elect medvedev in office, to see his first steps and also to see what role mr vladimir putin will play in the new presidency. however, i believe that even in the current situation, where democratically-minded candidates are not allowed to participate in elections and people are not allowed to express their views on this matter in the streets after the elections, it is important to have a say in this matter. otherwise we will be in the same situation as the council of europe, which has already postponed its russia report for a long time in anticipation of a more opportune moment. if i could take part in the vote, i would also vote in favour of the resolution, although the text may not be quite what i would like. i believe that as a democratic institution, we have a duty to be principled and sincere in expressing our opinion on this important issue of free elections.
in writing. – it is an encouraging report about macedonia’s progress. the key to this progress is the renewed political consensus that has been achieved between different parties. such a consensus greatly helped my country, estonia, to succeed in the eu accession. stabilising inter-ethnic relations, financial reforms and a successful fight against organised crime and corruption are just some landmarks of this progress. while guaranteeing minorities their rights we expect that the enlarged autonomy will be used in a responsible way to consolidate the macedonian state as a whole. macedonia should also be commended for keeping good-neighbourly relations both with kosovo and serbia. macedonian citizens’ entry into the eu countries has become an urgent problem. we need to apply as quickly as possible the same visa facilitation rules as those applying for croatia. against the background of the impressive progress macedonia has achieved i strongly suggest that the commission could start accession negotiations already in 2008. finally, i appeal to our greek friends to demonstrate good will and flexibility to reach a reasonable compromise that would enable macedonia to free itself from the stigmatisation of tito’s communist federal state.
in writing. – mr president, i welcome the progress that croatia has made towards concluding the accession negotiations in 2009. gradual integration of the former yugoslav republics is crucial for stability in the western balkan region. although there is still a lot of work to be done, especially in the areas of minority rights, border-related issues and judicial reform, croatia should continue vigorously with its efforts to obtain membership of the eu as soon as possible in accordance with the accession criteria. croatia's future membership is a logical next step, following the accession of slovenia in 2004, to increase eu involvement in the region and encourage neighbouring bosnia and herzegovina as well as all the other western balkan countries to continue with the consolidation of democracy. for the better administration of this process the western balkan region should follow the example of the nordic council. the slovenian presidency and the upcoming french presidency should provide croatia with all the necessary support to overcome the final obstacles on its way to becoming a member of the european union.
ladies and gentlemen, the member states of the european union, from estonia to poland, lost millions and millions of their most talented and enterprising citizens to nazi aggression and decades of soviet terror. the european parliament's report 'citizens for europe' established the 'active european memory' action. it is equally aimed at preventing nazism and stalinism and at commemorating the victims of those regimes. today, 70 years after the stalin-hitler secret pact, the atrocities of stalin's coercive apparatus have not yet been acknowledged at european level. member states should set up a permanent intergovernmental working group to investigate the crimes of the bolsheviks and the kgb impartially and to assess them in the light of european values. today, however, august 23 should be declared a european day of remembrance for the victims of stalinism and nazism. on august 23, 1939, the nazis and the bolsheviks divided europe into two spheres of influence. they tore a wound in europe that has never really healed.
mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the parallel between the olympic games in beijing and in moscow 28 years ago. granting the right to hold the olympic games in moscow in 1980 was probably an artful plan designed by jimmy carter’s administration and his national security adviser, zbigniew brzezinski, to open the soviet union, at least for a short period, to the west and its democratic influence. our goal is to trigger democratisation in china and therefore we should appreciate the chance for such an international presence in a country that is otherwise rather isolated. also, in boycotting the beijing olympics, we deprive the chinese authorities of their triumph. we also lose the opportunity to introduce democratic values to the chinese people at grassroots level. our presence at the olympic games in beijing should not be viewed as an acceptance of the chinese authorities but as an effort to make the chinese people see the need for the transition to a new regime.
mr president, the european court of human rights has passed 24 rulings on appeals originating from inhabitants of chechnya – 200 more are pending. the court has found russia responsible for shocking human rights abuses in chechnya that include murder, torture and illegal detention. these abuses are continuing. in addition, up to 5 000 people have ‘disappeared’ – mostly murdered – at the hands of the state security services. incredibly, not a single official has been held responsible for these acts. i call on the eu, the commission and the council to make it clear to president medvedev that russia’s full compliance with the rulings of the strasbourg court will be a high-priority eu expectation with a view to resuming further partnership.
by the nice protocol on the termination of the coal and steel community agreement and the research fund for coal and steel, all assets under the agreement were placed at the disposal of the european commission in 2002. the proceeds from these assets will be used for research in the coal and steel sector. the council has adopted two regulations to improve the implementation of the research programme: the financial regulation and the technical regulation. the report by mr gierek deals with the latter. the commission notes that the price of the raw materials was lower than the price of the raw materials. the european commission therefore proposed to the council to bring the technical guidelines of the research fund for coal and steel into line with the agreement and to add shale to the definition of coal in the technical guidelines. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. the polish rapporteur adam gierek has proposed to replace bitumen in the definition with oil shale, arguing that this term also covers oil shale. in reality, the opposite is true. the greens have proposed to remove flint from the definition of coal altogether. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the coal industry is in a similar situation to that of the coal industry.
in writing. – as the production of material goods is increasingly mechanised and outsourced, more people in europe engage their talents in producing cultural goods. the kea study commissioned by the european commission significantly underestimates the contribution of cultural industries to our economy and society. while only 3.1% of the eu’s active population may be directly generating monetary value in the cultural area, their impact is noticeable almost in every aspect of our lives. pop culture carries cultural and social messages. musicians and actors were instrumental in releasing the green economy wave. music and film are powerful promoters of better understanding between people and of european values. cultural industries predominantly created the demand for new technologies, for digital platforms. therefore, it is vital that the european cultural industries remain viable. first of all, we must ensure that creative people are able to sustain themselves by their creativity. this means that we must enable the creators to distribute their work as widely as possible, without any fear of abuse from the middlemen or the consumers. i continue to see this as the leading motive of this report, for which i thank the rapporteur and my colleagues who contributed their thoughts.
on behalf of the pse group dear colleagues, the honourable member, vasco graça moura, has done a very good job in steering a report that is both about cultural heritage and about future needs, both about general principles and about concrete steps. thank you very much, i say as a substitute reporter. i just want to focus on a couple of points. since the beginning of 2009, we have been in a new situation: the treaty of lisbon has entered into force. in order to ensure that our missions abroad can represent our culture in a dignified manner, the cultural dimension should be consistently integrated into our foreign policy. right now, we're a long way from that. at first we are talking about integrating the cultural dimension into development measures, but even here we have difficulties. there are many very valuable additives in european culture, but instead of summing them up, we seem to have made an arithmetic average of them. the presence of european culture in the world is regrettably limited. i dare say europe has the world's best filmmakers and writers, but the world's cinemas are dominated by hollywood and bookstores are full of soft-screen entertainment from america. for some reason, we were translating foreign mass production, not each other's best authors. for some reason, the third countries we help prefer to spend their money on american cultural production. we need to change this. we must certainly pay more attention to the re-establishment of a common european cultural area. the cultural area which, in addition to the mediterranean and central europe, also includes the nordic, baltic and eastern europe. that's how we're stronger, that's how we get the sum of the valuable elements to be greater than the sum of the additions.
mr president, i voted for amendment 3, tabled by mr szymański, which is a stronger form of our general attitude to avoiding the presence of high-level state leaders at the opening ceremony of the beijing olympics. mr szymański finds a connection between the presence of state leaders and possibly supporting the internal policies of the chinese authorities. i think it might be a warning signal to the chinese authorities to make this connection more clear. that is why i voted for amendment 3.
mr president, the protests that disrupted the olympic torch relay in europe have backfired on us, as there are now several anti-western demonstrations going on in china. in principle, everyone has a right to feel betrayed that the chinese authorities have not fulfilled their commitment to improving the human rights situation in that country, and the ongoing violence in tibet continues to cast a shadow over the olympics in beijing. however, i cannot go along with the idea that aggressive protests such as those that took place in london and paris addressed this issue in a proper manner. our inclination to take advantage of the olympics to introduce some democratic values for the people of china is going to be met with extreme reluctance, as they feel insulted by those protests. an internal change inspired by the will of the chinese people is needed to bring about the fall of the communist regime in china. anti-western demonstrations are quite vivid proof that our recent acts have led to the opposite of what we had hoped for.
mr president, in just the same way as the baltic sea became an internal eu sea in 2004, so the historical experiences of the 10 new member states that suffered under the totalitarian rule of communism have become an all-european problem. i absolutely agree with mr cohn-bendit: we need a uniform or common interpretation of our common history. so it is not a question of condemnation; it is a question of moral and political assessment of all the crimes. we are called upon to guarantee that all crimes against humanity, all acts of genocide and classicide and all war crimes should be treated equally. justice belongs to all citizens of europe without any exception. in that sense, i am a bit disappointed with the commission statement, because the main theme is that the assessment of communist totalitarianism will be an internal affair for every relevant country. i am afraid it is going to deepen double standards, because clearly nazism and fascism are not considered to be internal matters in any of the eu member states. every emergence of neo-nazism and racism is viewed as a direct threat to the common values of europe. so, what do we need to do? there are still tens of millions of living victims of communist regimes, as well as their descendents. as things stand today, they are bound to feel like second- or third-class victims. the famous ‘never again’ is still not guaranteed for them. lastly, this is not a problem of the past. the absence of a political and moral assessment is continuously shaping our present day and is distorting our common future. could one imagine the return of the soviet kgb leadership to power in russia or a revival of communist political forces in germany if there had been an assessment of the communist system at the end of the cold war?
the commission's vice-president - mr president, i would like to thank all the members who have spoken in this debate, which is obviously a particularly important time, and in which we have heard particularly moving testimonies about the past that some of you have lived. i'd really like to clear up any confusion. mr beazley in particular, i do believe there has been a misunderstanding. i gave a speech that was prepared for me, but i have to say that i was probably misunderstood. each member state has a responsibility, it must be said. but the union is prepared to take its responsibilities. we want the truth, we want the whole truth, and if the commission has opened the debate, my colleague franco frattini has opened the debate, it is precisely because we want to get to the bottom of the truth. i want it to be very clear. we want not only that each member state should be able to organise this memorial itself, but also that all citizens of the union should feel solidarity and concern at the tragedies that have affected some of our member states. and i would like to say in this connection, as i said when i opened the session, that i was aware that, particularly in the west, we had not always appreciated the profoundly terrible tragedies experienced by our friends in the member states who lived through various occupations and the stalinist occupation. so i would really like to say that i am here personally to assure you that the commission will continue, will ensure that this debate is brought to a conclusion, in particular, by means of the study we are going to undertake to see how, in each of the member states, legislation and practice have been used for the memory of totalitarian crimes. of course, the council statement does not refer specifically to the crimes of stalinism but speaks in general terms of totalitarian regimes. but it is clear from the context in which this declaration was adopted, and in particular from the member states which originated it, that the question of the memory of stalinist crimes is at the very heart of this process. i think that this must be said, and i myself, when i opened this debate, stressed the absolutely unacceptable nature of all forms of totalitarianism, totalitarianism which has indeed denied the human person, which has denied the fundamental rights of the human person. in this respect, as some of you have pointed out, knowledge of the experience of other types of totalitarian regimes can be useful in determining the methods which have allowed, precisely, the excesses and barbarities which you have condemned. i think that a very broad study is needed and that of course no form of totalitarianism should be excluded. of course, this debate must not be used for political gain either. the commission is of course aware of this risk, but the european union's silence on the tragic past of some of our member states would only increase this risk and create a deep divide between the new and the old member states. that's why we have to move forward together. so i would simply say, mr president, why all this? because we must avoid all forms of revisionism, all historical lies. secondly, we must also, by keeping the memory, avoid, prevent the return of these totalitarianisms. and finally, we have a duty of reconciliation which is obviously part of this process. but i also insist that we must look to the future and some have stressed the need to move towards a very binding european law to avoid any return to these totalitarianisms. i would like to assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that beyond the few words i have to say in reply, i am personally fully convinced that we all have a duty of solidarity as europeans to establish the truth, our truth as europeans, without excluding, of course, without minimizing the crimes that may have been committed by the various totalitarian regimes. and in this connection i believe that our friends in the east in particular must understand that we are now engaged in a quest for truth which will not stop.
a public hearing on a subject of major importance for the european union was organised on 8 april by the slovenian presidency and the european commission. europe lost millions of its intellectual and enterprising citizens to the totalitarian powers of the 20th century. the wounds that have been torn in our history have not healed to this day. the soviet dictator, joseph stalin, wiped my homeland and the other baltic states off the map. for half a century, we had no anthem, no flag, our capital was moscow. stalinism and nazism developed together and divided europe by the iron curtain. the atrocities of hitler and stalin knew no national boundaries. as a social democrat, i condemn dictatorships in all their forms. but i would also like to emphasize that stalinism and nazism were the direct models for other totalitarian ideologies. metaxas, franco, mussolini, salazar and a handful of smaller dictators carried out their crimes based on the atrocities of hitler and stalin. their grip remained within their own country and therefore the countries concerned should themselves ensure that they are given a fair assessment. knowing and learning from each other's histories is essential if citizens of europe are to feel that they are also citizens of europe. we need a common value-based assessment of the crimes of the ccp and the kgb. it will soon be 70 years since the signing of the molotov-ribbentrop pact. the atrocities of stalin's forced machine are still not equated with hitler's war machine. as a first step towards a common history, i would call on our governments to declare august 23rd a pan-european day of remembrance for the victims of stalinism and nazism.
in writing. unfortunately, the reality is that while almost all westerners know about nazi german concentration camps, most of them have never heard of the gulag. a recent survey of young people in sweden between the ages of 15 and 20 showed that their basic knowledge of communism is very limited, sometimes nonexistent. the survey found that 90% of swedes had never heard of the gulag, while 95% of those surveyed knew what auschwitz was. unfortunately, my father had experience in both camps, and therefore i cannot accept that the suffering caused by the soviet regime is treated as secondary, as if it were feared that talking about it would diminish the significance of the crimes of nazism. that attitude must change. in the social democratic group of the european parliament, this is not always the easiest thing to do, as some parties have a communist past. the explanatory work in this group is all the more important. i remember similar debates when the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe, of which i was a member, condemned the crimes of communism a few years ago. i was one of those who spoke then, and perhaps because there are so many countries in this organisation with experience of the soviet regime, it was also more successful than in the european parliament. i am deeply convinced that if the european union is to take its declared values seriously, it must also express very clearly its attitude towards the past in accordance with those values. it is not a rewrite of the past, as some critics of the way the subject is treated have expressed. it's a repudiation of the historical truth.
the transplant needs to happen fast. it shouldn't take more than a couple of hours from acquisition to transplant. public awareness and public opinion therefore play an important role in increasing organ donation. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against cancer, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the prevention of and fight against cancer. improving public and media awareness of transplant issues appears to be the most effective tool for raising public preparedness. that's the first thing. secondly, i would like to emphasise that, given the absence of pan-european coordination of organ exchange today, it is very important to strengthen this very aspect and, more specifically, to coordinate the existing mechanisms for organ exchange between member states, for example through the european donor card and the pan-european hotline.
member of the commission. − mr president, i wish to thank ms harkin very much indeed for her report. the report relates to many eu policies and many initiatives, emphasising the strong link between volunteering and active citizenship. i particularly appreciate your comments on the peace programme, where the involvement of volunteering was indeed strong. we will meet here again in may to discuss the report of ms de brún, in which, i am convinced, examples of local empowerment, in particular through the voluntary sector and non-governmental organisations, will be strongly present. with regard to your recommendation on in-kind contribution, let me say that, while article 56 of the general regulation on the european regional development fund, the european social fund and the cohesion fund already allows for in-kind contribution to eu co-financed projects, the real challenge is the use of this provision. but let me say that, in particular in local initiatives, which are co-financed by the social fund, it is quite common for volunteers to provide a noteworthy contribution, while there have been also many activities, especially within the urban initiative in germany, italy, the uk and greece, which have supported a wide range of voluntary organisations. volunteering can be seen as a strong component of the partnership principle. many times in this house, i have reiterated the commission’s full commitment towards the effective implementation of the partnership principle, in particular in the new generation of cohesion policy. we insisted on partnership during the negotiations of new programmes and we have now many positive examples of strong commitment to the partnership. but of course, as you know, we have a great variety of approaches towards partnership and volunteering in our member states. i also see the role of your report in preparing the ground for the next own-initiative report on governance and partnership at national, regional and local level, to be presented by mr beaupuy. let me say a few words on specific policies and initiatives in the area of volunteering in which the commission has been particularly active. worth mentioning is the european voluntary service and active european citizenship in the eu’s new lifelong learning programme. my colleague ján figeľ is currently preparing a new initiative on voluntary activities of young people, which will incorporate many of the aspirations expressed in your report. enhancing and promoting trans-european voluntary activities will further reinforce the mobility of our young citizens. in its new initiative, the commission will seek to ensure a greater interoperability of existing national voluntary schemes. the white paper on sport also stresses that voluntary activities in the sport sector strengthen social cohesion and inclusion and promote local democracy and active citizenship. there is also the reference to sport in the lisbon treaty, which provides for ‘the promotion of european sporting issues, while taking account of […] its structures based on voluntary activity’. here we share the view that we need a more holistic approach to the contribution of volunteering to europe’s economic and social cohesion. this should certainly take into account the challenge of the ageing european population. in this respect, your suggestion of ‘intergenerational volunteering’ merits further exploration. in this context, i am happy to tell you that the commission’s directorate-general for education, training, culture and youth is about to launch an assessment of the state of play of volunteering in europe. this assessment will serve as a source of better knowledge and a solid basis for further initiatives in this field, as no systematic and integrated approach towards volunteering has been developed so far at eu level. i am convinced that all those you are addressing in the motion for a resolution will be responsive to your call. you can certainly count on the commission’s support. let me also assure you that all other requests that are addressed more specifically to the commission will be examined, in particular by commissioners figeľ and špidla.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, on behalf of the ppe-de group, i would like first of all to congratulate ms harkin on an excellent and timely report. the point is to have better understanding about the potential and role of volunteering, which could be called one of the backbones of civil society. indeed, volunteering is about citizens’ initiative and so it is directly related to solidarity, the core value of a united europe. as the rapporteur put it just now, it is one of the most efficient forms of renewable energy. i think the point of this report is to encourage member states to recognise the value of volunteering in promoting social and economic cohesion. the state is, of course, not expected to finance volunteering, otherwise it would lose its meaning, but the state is called on to provide incentives for the private sector to support the voluntary sector. parliament also addressed the commission about the delays in the proposed european charter on volunteering, which is expected to define better the role of volunteering. a very important part of this report is the call for the promotion of volunteering through education at all levels, beginning with creating opportunities for voluntary activities at an early stage of the education system and also to promote volunteering as part of lifelong learning. i would like to express my thanks once more for this excellent cooperation. we were able to discuss almost all amendments in a positive and constructive spirit and to make use of the majority of initiatives.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i also like the principle of equal treatment very much and, to be honest, it is sometimes very difficult for me to understand why i get paid much less than my western colleagues (ten times less than italians) for this work in this house. but i understand it's going to take some time for wages to converge in europe. i get the impression that we're dealing with hypocrisy here today. many people speak out, and they speak as if they were speaking for the one million displaced people, fighting for their rights. let's be honest, a lot of the people who are here are not really representing the one million people who are here, but they are protecting their labor market. that is why i am very pleased that the commissioner has agreed to set up a committee to look into this matter. there's a very wrong impression about these three cases. that it is still necessary to report on what is really exploitation, what is social dumping, what is uninsured. fortunately, this is not the case with these cases. the free movement of services is in the interest of all of us. i'm waiting three weeks for my brussels apartment to have pipes. the pipes are about to be installed. you know, i dream about that famous polish plumber.
first of all, i would like to thank ana gomes for this report. the first message for me is not just the behaviour of china, but the ever-shrinking common foreign policy of the european union. we can all agree that a united european union position is very welcome. i'd like to emphasize a couple of things. first, a global approach: we should look at china-africa cooperation from a global perspective, not from the aspect that africa is the traditional european sphere of influence. and secondly, we must emphasise the sense of responsibility: china must increasingly recognise the responsibility that comes from such a strategic partnership. and one last note. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market. considers that chinese engagement in africa, on the one hand, and the newly launched eu-africa strategic partnership, on the other, should be compatible with each other; first of all, i don't think our policy should be aligned with that of the people's republic of china, and i don't think, to be honest, that the chinese will even consider the suggestions of our kind of narrative.
in writing. – mr president, the most disturbing fact about china's policy in africa is that they are providing non-conditional aid and investments there. the development assistance that the european union contributes has always been bound with strict conditions concerning democratic progress, recognition of the rule of law and good governance as well as respect for human rights. china's pragmatic "no conditions" cooperation with repressive regimes in africa undermines the efforts that the european union has made to incite democratic state-building in africa and challenges us to introduce some new more flexible policies on africa. conditional aid, although being sometimes extremely effective, can also be perceived as patronizing and china, in pursuit to satisfy its growing need for resources, has avoided its use. china's growing interest and involvement in africa endangers european interests there and in order not to lose ground in africa we must come forward with some new more attractive means to encourage democratic transition in african countries. but on the other hand we must not shy away from a constructive dialogue between the european union and china as well as other major contributors who might be interested in forming a coherent multilateral strategy on africa.
the chairman of the council. - i will try to answer some of the dilemmas and questions you have raised in particular. first of all, i would like to say that it is extremely important that we reached a consensus at the last council on 18 april and that the commission was given a mandate to open negotiations. it is extremely important that we can act in the way you want, as you have expressed here today, in the spirit that all european citizens have the same rights and, of course, the same duties. but to touch on some of the specific things that have been mentioned here, i would like to say that at the beginning of the negotiations, and as one of the members has mentioned, we cannot accept a strategy that has been imposed on europe in some way. i have to say, maybe at that first push of this strategy that was put in place, we were successful in stopping it. we have reached agreements, we have reached ways of dealing with this, we have reached a two-pronged approach to cooperation in the future, and in doing so we have somehow made clear to both the united states and the member states how we can work and where the frameworks are that are acceptable and the frameworks that are not acceptable. i would like to touch in particular on the question of fingerprints and the dilemmas faced by some members, and in particular by the citizens of the european union. we must not mix the esta and the pnr systems. the pnr system remains unchanged, as it is, as it was adopted and validated, and it is not at all a question of fingerprinting at travel agencies or anywhere else. this matter is as it is, and is not subject to discussion or change. i think this is extremely, extremely important. as regards data protection and the work of the high-level expert group, i must say that since i have been heading the council of ministers and as president of the council, i have been extremely transparent with the libe committee. i have already reported twice to the committee on this matter, and i have again presented to you today what is happening, to the whole of parliament. i think we've been working on this first phase on the principle of identifying where the problems are, where those common principles are, if they are, and where they are not. on that basis, of course, we can then proceed with further proceedings. the further procedures and the opening of negotiations will begin in 2009 and it is extremely important, if indeed they will begin at all, that we have common positions between parliament, the council and the commission. only in this way will we have a sufficiently powerful tool to reach an agreement, which i think your parliament has already decided is extremely important for us to have some kind of data protection coverage and not to reopen it in every agreement we negotiate. and that's the point of this. there was no negotiation involved in the conclusion of the agreement. certain principles were studied. i shall see, on the basis of these studies, and we now know, that the 12 principles are practically the same, one is not and that too will be the subject of course if the negotiations are to be implemented. and in these negotiations, i hope we will succeed. i would also like to highlight the issue of cooperation between the member states, the commission and the presidency on memoranda, follow-up talks and implementing agreements. it should be made very clear that memoranda are not agreements. memoranda of understanding are an expression of the political will of a country to become visa waiver. they do not contain elements which would give this document the status of an international agreement. we are in very close and strong contact with the countries on the follow-up talks and the implementing agreements or implementing rules. i have, to give just one example, had very open talks with minister langer of the czech republic a few days ago about what and how these talks are going ahead. at this point, there is no written document that the united states has provided to any member for the negotiations on the implementing rules. the most important thing to me is that the work of the member states, the commission and the presidency will remain transparent. only in such a trio, and of course also by cooperating in certain areas with parliament, can we achieve a proper way of dealing with this issue. but some things he thinks we'll leave to the commissioner, the vice president, to answer on the commission's authority.
the commission's vice-president - mr president, we must remedy an unfair situation. it is not possible to admit two categories of european citizens, some of whom are subject to visa requirements and others to visa exemption. i think that's a really deep conviction that drives all of us. secondly, i personally believe in the strength of united negotiation. when europe speaks with one voice, with the solidarity of all its members, it is much stronger. i would like to remind you, as mr mate has already said, that in another area which, in all proportions, is not at all similar to open skies, it is because the commission at one point had the mandate that we were able to obtain the first stage of open skies. well, in the same way, i believe in the strength of united negotiation and i must say that with mr president mate we will really get down to work with a lot of energy, with a lot of determination. i would add that the commission has already in the past, however, set up reciprocity mechanisms with a number of third countries. our mechanism has been successful with canada, australia and other countries. so there is no reason why we cannot stop this discrimination. i should like to point out that the commission will be represented in washington on tuesday and wednesday to formally open the negotiations. in other words, it is proof of our determination to give this mandate its full meaning. that is all i could say on that first point. i would now like to answer the questions raised by mr deprez, in particular, on the implementation protocols. the implementation protocols, as mr mate has just said, we do not yet have. so it's very difficult to evaluate them. but it is true that it is our duty to evaluate them strictly in the light of community provisions. and i would add that we are going to be transparent, and in particular transparent with parliament, in our negotiations with the united states, but we also need the member states - and i am not accusing anyone, no member state, but all member states having bilateral discussions - to be willing to fulfil this duty of transparency. it's in mutual trust that we get to do good work. i insist on it. of course, if the implementing protocols later reveal things which are not acceptable under community law, we will see how to act, but we will act. thirdly, some of you have asked the question of data. i would like to remind you that the exchange of pnr data is governed by the 2007 agreement between the european union and the united states. these provisions are there, and they bind us today. and there is no reason to be bullied about this by our american friends. however, i have noted in passing the remarks of president deprez on the idea that in the long run, in a comprehensive transatlantic agreement, it may be interesting, perhaps, to have an independent authority which will, precisely, ensure that this data protection is ensured. these are just a few details, but i can tell you that parliament will of course be kept very informed of our negotiations, that our strength will come from an interinstitutional agreement, mr minister, a perfect one, which will show our american friends that the european union today intends to demand justice for all its citizens, and will do so with unwavering determination. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. – i welcome the presidency statement about the equal treatment of all eu citizens. it is time to give a parliamentary mandate to the commission to reach a comprehensive agreement on the eu-us visa waiver programme. the aim is to provide for safe visa-free travel for all eu citizens without exception as soon as possible. we also expect the commission to provide the maximum transparency during the negotiations. at this point we cannot see any reason from the usa side to insist on presenting additional data. also it is important that electronic means could be used by citizens to forward their visa applications and personal data. several colleagues have shown irritation about the moves taken by some member states to speed up reaching visa-free agreements with the usa authorities through bilateral consultations. this is not splitting the eu. let us not forget that practically all older member states already enjoy visa-free entry whereas practically all new member states lack this opportunity. memorandums of understanding signed by these states are to be seen as acts of political will on the way toward a visa-free regime; they are certainly not separatist agreements.
when i go to the parliament building in brussels in the morning, i see a big poster of aung san suu kyi looking at me with her sad eyes, and i have to say that i feel very embarrassed every morning. our resolutions, which we have adopted almost unanimously here, have had no effect. when i listened to the speeches of the commission and the council representatives here today, i noticed the following rhetoric: 'we hope, we wish, we think, we worry'. isn't that a little modest of you to be in such a regime? i think we should speak with one voice and much more forcefully. what's next? we're getting to targeted economic sanctions again and again. i think that's probably still the only way to influence this regime and of course also to monitor very closely where our development aid goes. our money has to be tied to very specific changes in this society.
commissioner, my dear colleagues. in the area without internal borders of the european union, cooperation and solidarity in the protection of the external borders and the further enhancement of the effectiveness of frontex are of great importance. but in addition to those who come by boat across the mediterranean, which is much talked about here, and which we all know for sure thanks to the media, there is also a big problem with those who come from third countries with visas and do not intend to leave when those visas expire. and they're mostly from the east. the single visa information system is very important here and it is not enough to simply increase the responsibility of one nation state or member state. it is very important to enhance cooperation between countries. and there is a lot of talk about a common migration policy. it's certainly important in some respects. but certain issues must also remain within the competence of the member states, such as the question of quotas, because here each country must take into account its own possibilities for integration. there's no way to solve this from above.
on behalf of the pse group. – mr president, the constitution of zimbabwe states that ‘no person shall be subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading punishment or other such treatment’. the violations of national and international law are so numerous that there is simply no time even to count them here. i would like to address the following to two people: the commissioner-general of police, augustine chihuri, and army commander constantine chiwenga. torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment are prohibited absolutely under international law: for example, under article 5 of the african charter of human and people’s rights and article 7 of the international covenant on civil and political rights. zimbabwe is a state party of both instruments. i call on you to bring an immediate end to human rights violations by police officers and soldiers, and i urge you to ensure that all allegations of police and military involvement in human rights abuses, including violent attacks on individuals, are promptly, independently and impartially investigated.
mr president, the people of zimbabwe deserve justice and the rule of law. last month’s elections indicate the possible end of tyranny. i think the very fact that mugabe’s government has delayed acknowledging the result and is trying to recount the votes indicates – and is proof – that they feel themselves defeated. i am especially worried about the widespread violence in the meantime, directed against supposed supporters of the opposition – people having been beaten up and killed just for differing in their views from the government positions. i would also like to mention the fact that this regime cannot survive without outside support, so the chinese factor is very symbolic – the ships with armaments landing in african ports.
on behalf of the pse group dear colleagues, the situation of women in iran is serious. religion is often cited as a justification for human rights violations. it is humiliating to know that women are still punished with whips or even the death penalty. it is essential that iran sign the un convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women as a matter of urgency. this landmark document has been signed by 185 nations. iran is the real black spot in the region, because all the countries surrounding iran have already joined the convention. i warmly welcome the release of khadijeh moghaddam, a pioneer in the fight against discrimination against women. but let's face it, he had to spend nine long days in the holding cell. the million signatures campaign she initiated was a powerful step towards establishing women's rights. it is unacceptable that women are still being jailed for fighting for equal opportunities. violence against women in iran must end, women must have a voice in all issues. iran cannot consider itself an exception in the global village of the world.
mr president, for almost 30 years, the islamic republic of iran has been a major menace to human rights and democracy. women have been the first target of this extremist branch of islam. their rights have been hijacked by the mullahs’ regime. even young girls are not exceptions, and a nine-year-old girl is treated as an adult and punished by flogging, execution and even stoning. however, many women have not complied with the regime. it is encouraging to see that the main democratic opposition movement, the national council of resistance, is led by a woman like mrs maryam rajavi. resolutions are good, but they are not enough. we need to support such women in deeds.
on behalf of the pse group even my speech echoes the previous speaker. i also wanted to highlight a point that is of paramount importance to this agenda, and that is the situation of children in crisis centres. of the hundreds of thousands of people who have been left homeless, many - if not most - are children. and what is their daily life, those depressing images we have all seen on the television screen. the european union has a duty to show solidarity with the whole of the people, of course, but we must make an effort to focus on children, because they cannot stand up for themselves. it's depressing that only one in five children in chad goes to school and there are thousands and thousands of them who carry guns. i fully support the call to introduce human rights education action plans in schools. it is important that the government of chad does everything possible to prevent children from being recruited by rebel groups and in this light, eufor will certainly play a very important role, for example in communicating with community leaders and drawing their attention to the situation of children in the region.
at yesterday's meeting with the deputy prime minister of georgia, there was a repeated statement that the kosovo solution is what is causing the current tensions in georgia. it is true that russia is taking advantage of this, but it is also clear that russia's imperial interests will find some other justification if necessary. today, the question is not what georgia has done or not done. today, the issue is that under the guise of peacekeeping, war is being fomented, and we are dangerously close to that war. what is important today is our very clear assessment of the situation in abkhazia and our unequivocal support for georgia.
madam president, i think today it has become clear that the term ‘frozen conflicts’ could be a misleading one. in fact, our own understanding of the substance of these conflicts has often been frozen. what we see today is post-imperialist near-abroad policies in action: policies which the russian government was committed to abandoning 12 years ago when it became a member of the council of europe. today we need to make very clear that russia’s interpretation of its un peacekeeping role is absolutely unacceptable. we must not hesitate, either, to make it clear that unity and integrity should apply equally for georgia and for russia. it is the time of action now. it is not the time for words any more. (applause)
today, listening to these speeches, it is clear that all of us in this room - whether representing the council, the commission or the european parliament - agree that georgia is on the verge of crisis, on the verge of war, unless we intervene practically immediately and quickly with real means. since my time is short, i would like to speak only about one item and that is the so-called russian peacekeepers, who have been on georgian territory for 14 years now, in abkhazia and south ossetia. and what's the consequence? during that time, there have been numerous provocations, be it unmanned reconnaissance flights, unilateral peace, or the deployment of so-called peacekeepers. there's been an increase in instability. in abkhazia, where 80% of the population are abkhazians, 90% of the population of the region have russian state passports issued by russia. what are we talking about, visa-free? they're doing everything they can to destabilize the situation. and i have only one suggestion in this regard: the peacekeepers, the russian peacekeepers, must be replaced by real, practical peacekeepers.
vice-president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking you for the broad support for the project of transatlantic economic cooperation which this debate has shown, and i would like to stress once again: it is a project which all the institutions must carry out together. the council has its role to play, parliament has its role to play and the commission is trying to do its part. i would like to counter or reassure those who have expressed concern that this is a kind of transatlantic protectionism or that the two largest and most powerful economic regions in the world are entrenching themselves behind a wall. the transatlantic economic cooperation is not directed against anyone. it is very interesting to know that the economic regions, which were also mentioned in this debate, are already showing a strong interest in this work and have already asked more or less clearly whether it could not be imagined to do something similar with others. my answer to that is always the same: we want to see first whether the model we have created here really works. because we're still in the early stages. i want to try to make it clear again that there are quite different dimensions here. the real core business is indeed the removal of trade barriers. it is exactly as malcolm harbour said: these are trade barriers. you look at it, you can't believe it. you don't realize that we've been doing this kind of nonsense for many, many years. and he's absolutely right about that. that's because the bureaucracies couldn't get along. what we're doing here is getting the bureaucracies moving, forcing them to talk to each other, giving them directions. let me say in parentheses, madam president, that although i have been in business for a long time, i have learned something new on this occasion. i always thought that in the united states, if the political process is run from the white house, then all it takes is a push of a button, and all over the administration, the executive branch, the president does what he wants. that's not the case in america either. the problems are by no means confined to the european side, but the americans too have problems in getting their bureaucracy going. so this is the real core business. we're talking about things that will relieve the economies on both sides of unnecessary costs of many, many billions of euros -- money that could be used to invest, create jobs and drive sensible innovation. that's the core business. the second dimension looks much further ahead. the question is whether we can manage to work with common standards. for example, the american co-chairman and i agree that it is absurd for us to develop standards in the united states and europe and then use these standards to compete with each other in third markets. the attempt to do much more together and avoid problems in future regulation is, for example, the reason why we talk a lot about nanotechnology, why we talk about the standards of biofuels. all this to avoid that in the future something like this happens again, that things develop differently. i don't want to hide my personal vision here either. i think that given the very different philosophies on both sides of the atlantic, on how to make product safety, for example, we will only be able to achieve this in the end if we are willing to acknowledge our mutual philosophies and regulatory approaches, if we acknowledge, for example, that the americans do not want to poison their people as much as we do, and if the americans recognize that we do not want to expose our people to the same risks from electrical devices as the americans do. so there is the principle of mutual recognition of reasonable arrangements. now to the third dimension. the debate this afternoon has been almost exclusively about this: the very large, far-reaching, partly world political questions which have been raised here. i would like to agree with erika mann and ask her not to put too much on this cart, not to mention the fact that we have a framework agreement which tells us which subjects we can and cannot deal with. a whole series of issues have been raised which are definitely not covered by this framework agreement and for which there are other forums. but nevertheless, it has already been shown that practical cooperation gives rise to the need to discuss the major strategic issues, such as the future of the world trade system, the question of protectionism, the treatment of investments from state funds, the question of food and energy prices, as well as the question of the possible need to regulate financial services. that's what we're doing. we have found a way here that allows us to respond very quickly and very flexibly. i therefore do not exclude the possibility that in the long term there may be discussions on topics going beyond what is actually provided for in the framework agreement. let me say again that i feel empowered by this debate to continue on the path we have taken and to ensure that we succeed this time. we have enormous potential together, but we are far from exploiting it. if we remove the barriers that prevent us from reaching our economic potential, we can do much more to achieve our great political, social and environmental goals. that's what this is about.
in writing. – the global challenges are looming large on the background of today’s debate. instead of bickering over the past problems and details of mutual relationship we need to realise that on the global scale the eu represents 7% of the world’s population. to really face these ever growing challenges, there is only one solution: the two biggest democratic free-trade areas have to join forces. there is absolutely no alternative to the closest possible transatlantic cooperation. this is not a matter of a wishful long-term perspective. last year the european parliament and the us congress made a promising start. an ambitious goal, to complete the transatlantic market by the year 2015, has been set. to realise this goal, we need the full cooperation of both the council and the commission. the first task is to chart and remove all existing obstacles – political as well as technical. the second task will be to draw up a concise document that will explain its essential reasons and advantages to the general public. finally, let us not forget that the goals of the lisbon strategy will be best achieved by creating genuine and efficient transatlantic integration.
member of the commission. − thank you for the opportunity to discuss two closely related issues, the european works councils and the responsible implementation of restructuring, which the commission considers to be of particular importance and on which we have made considerable progress over the last year. as regards the european works council, the commission considered that community action was necessary to improve the legal framework of the european works councils, as the european works councils are not properly consulted in the event of restructuring, there is legal uncertainty in the implementation of the directive, there is a need to achieve better linkages between information and consultation of workers at national and transnational level and between the relevant directives. as you are aware, on 20 february the commission launched a second consultation of the social partners on the revision of the directive, proposing a number of directions in which the directive should move in order to address the problems mentioned above. these include, in particular, the amendment of definitions, the strengthening of provisions to be applied in the event of non-agreement, the training of staff, the adjustment of agreements in the event of significant changes, such as mergers, the establishment of an agreed system for the interlinking of national and transnational dialogue. this consultation is a step prior to the presentation of a legislative proposal by the commission, but it has also given the social partners the opportunity to negotiate on the issue. the social partners are certainly in the best position to ensure a significant positive impact of the revision of the directive. the commission therefore invited them to negotiate european works councils. the european trade union confederation finally declared that it was unable to open negotiations with the employers' organisations on the european councils. however, on behalf of the commission, i have issued a new call to the social partners to contribute fully to improving the framework under which these bodies operate. the commission is currently finalising an impact assessment of the options open to community action, taking into account the responses and contributions of the social partners. if the conclusions of this evaluation confirm that the most favourable option for solving the existing problems is a revision of the directive and if the social partners do not respond to the last challenge addressed to them, i will propose to the members of the commission in the summer to adopt a balanced legislative proposal which takes into account all the views expressed and the interests of the different parties. the european works councils need to be given a new impetus, develop a genuine transnational dialogue and be able to play their full role in anticipating and implementing change. they must be more efficient, more powerful and more effective. the commission will seek to work closely with parliament and the council on this issue, which is one of its priorities for 2008. the second theme - restructuring: restructuring is a necessary response to the process of major economic and social change in europe linked to technological progress, globalisation and population ageing, as well as the necessary steps to address global warming and environmental threats. it is clear that the main responsibility in the adjustment process lies with the undertakings, since they are familiar with market conditions and technology and assume the risks associated with the restructuring decision. however, the social, economic and regional impact of these restructurings, especially the most extensive ones, is such that the role that subcontractors, enterprises and employees and their representatives may also play in the various stages of the adjustment process cannot be overlooked. for the same reasons, adaptation to economic change also requires public measures aimed not only at creating an overall framework favourable to economic competitiveness but also at promoting the anticipation and socially responsible management of restructuring. the enterprise, together with the territory, is the first level at which the restructuring process takes place and it is therefore necessary, on the one hand, to create conditions that allow enterprises to develop rapidly and to maintain competitiveness, and, on the other hand, to ensure that enterprises demonstrate their social, societal and territorial responsibility by anticipating changes, sharing relevant information effectively and in a timely manner with all stakeholders, and in particular by introducing mechanisms to prepare employees and the territory for foreseeable restructuring. the social partners agreed in 2003 on an indicative framework which responds to these requirements. they developed operational guidelines on the basis of this framework. however, the guidelines are currently underused. the commission will therefore present a report shortly to support the social partners in taking further steps in this area, for example by implementing these guidelines more effectively, broadening the scope of the principles and defining how to implement more or less significant implementations. i would like to stress that the commission is prepared to cooperate with parliament as much as possible on both priority issues, the european works council and restructuring, and on the social agenda, to an extent that goes beyond the scope of today's statement.
on behalf of the alde group. ladies and gentlemen, it is very positive that the commission has become aware of the problems facing the european works council, which relate to the need to consult and inform workers in a situation where certain economic restructuring is inevitable and natural in the context of globalisation. as the preacher on my left hand said, i agree with you completely that consultation is very important. it is very important to have not just consultation but constructive and positive information. the need for social dialogue is emphasised. but today, the european union is no longer 15 old democracies, we are 27. and in my country, for example, about five percent of the workforce belongs to a trade union, which would be a natural part of social dialogue as one side. the workers have not joined the union of their own free will. there are reasons for this, and one reason is that they do not see the union as a force that can protect their interests. and now that the commission is preparing a single legal framework and rules, the situation is similar in many, many more member states. and i ask that this be taken into account, otherwise we will have legislation for several countries that will not work or be applied again.
ladies and gentlemen, the marco cappato human rights report is to be commended. i agree that the european union must make a great effort to pursue a truly coherent and vigorous policy to promote human rights in the world. that's right, the implementation of surveillance to protect human rights needs more effective implementation! i support the european union's common foreign and security policy. speaking with one voice allows us to respond to any human rights violations in the world in an operational manner. it could mean thousands of lives saved. i support the proposal to organise a european conference against violence in 2009. the participation of meps in the election observation is essential. the european parliament has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. how can the participation of the european parliament's political groups in electoral observation and the work of the european parliament's electoral observation delegations be enhanced without prejudice to either? we must find the answer together. the european union is increasingly concerned with human rights. so the world will see that solidarity and the protection of fundamental rights are our fundamental principles, without which no country can achieve prosperity.
i asked for the floor to call for a greater focus on human rights in afghanistan a country to which both member states and the european union as a whole are making a strong contribution. i was part of the european parliament delegation to afghanistan last week and i would like to mention two names. perwiz kambakhsh, a young journalist who was sentenced to death for downloading material on the situation of muslim women. his fate is now in the hands of president karzai. and the other, malala yoya, a young woman mp who, after criticizing the military chiefs' power in both the government and parliament, was simply thrown out of parliament. his rights were taken away, illegally. the law doesn't allow for that. today, it's not just a question of him not being able to stand up for his rights or get his mandate back, but his life is in danger. we've met with him and he really needs our urgent help and intervention. the european union as a whole should think more about what kind of afghanistan we are building, and especially before the international conference in paris, where we will start discussing increasing aid to afghanistan.
in writing. – i congratulate my colleague marco cappato on a comprehensive report, pointing out the most burning issues in the field of human rights last year. i agree with him fully on the need for a radical intensification of the eu-china human rights dialogue especially in the light of the upcoming olympics in beijing. it is regrettable that china has not significantly enhanced the situation of human rights in the country after beijing was granted in 2001 the right to organise the olympics. but this should definitely not be a reason to give up on china. as the report states, the olympics ‘constitute an important historic opportunity for the improvement of human rights in china’ and therefore we should tirelessly remind the chinese authorities of the promises they have made. but we should avoid making threats that might lead to some greater isolation and restiveness in china, as has happened recently, causing several anti-western demonstrations in the country. we must be careful not to create an opposition to democratic reforms among the chinese people. instead we should concentrate on creating a dialogue that would give us a chance to present our position while not treating the other party with disdain.
ladies and gentlemen, freedom of speech is the most important feature of democracy. there can be no compromise on this point. on may 2, just one day before international press freedom day, the bank account of the moldovan magazine journal of chisinau was frozen by a court decision. because the newspaper reported on the rape charges against the former state's attorney. i repeat: informing or providing information, doing what the media is supposed to do. with 20 years of journalistic experience and now as head of the moldovan delegation, i strongly condemn what happened. several international news organizations have also expressed their displeasure. the ruling is nothing but another example of the gross violation of freedom of speech in moldova. the european union must continue to support moldova in all its aspects. the europe of the 21st century is a europe of free speech, because otherwise democracy is in danger. we shouldn't sit around and wait for things to get really bad. on the contrary, we must wage a war of words in the name of democracy against all those who trample on the most precious of our fundamental values. democracy and freedom of speech are irreplaceable.
the 20th century brought a breakthrough in science and technology, and with it a leap forward in human knowledge of the unreachable reaches of nature. in 1969 the american neil armstrong became the first man to walk on the moon, in 1977 the voyagers left the solar system, and astronomers can now tell the story not only of the outer reaches of our galaxy but of the entire visible universe. aside from the conquest of space, little attention has been paid to our ocean depths, measured in miles. the legislation governing the management of deep-sea fish stocks needs a particularly serious review. i agree with the rapporteur that the human and financial resources allocated to research must be increased rapidly. it is essential to define deep-sea fishing. now, there's talk of different depths, different fishing gear. however, the member states of the european union must jointly understand the content of the definitions and the importance of the agreements. i draw your attention to paragraph 8 of the report, which prohibits fishing for northern trawls below 1000 m. why do we have to specify a depth limit? the management of stocks and the maintenance of biological balance should be based on regional specificities and international agreements. where a prohibition of fishing at a certain depth is justified in certain areas, this restriction should apply to all bottom-containing gear and not only to the bottom trawl. we need a flexible system and the ability to react quickly to manage fish stocks. i thank the rapporteur for pointing out the inefficiency of the legislation in force.
in writing. – the lobbying report which we have been discussing is an important step toward transparency. when we can show who has been consulted on any one legislative package, it gives legitimacy to the process which is so important for us here. it is equally important to make sure that all interests that approach parliament have to register. we cannot allow any loopholes which would let some interests go unregistered. for one, lawyers and think-tanks that take part in lobbying activities are for all intents and purposes lobbyists and should therefore be registered. in short, i would like to welcome this report which is a good first step in the move for greater transparency.
in writing. the report prepared by alexander stubb is of the utmost importance, as brussels will soon have almost as many lobbyists as european commission officials. i am glad that, unlike the european commission, parliament is supporting the idea that the register of lobbyists should be compulsory. otherwise, the report would not fulfil its main purpose and would not work effectively. at the moment, one of the main issues in dispute is the inclusion of the above list of lawyers. i am in favour of their inclusion in the compulsory register. it would be wrong to exclude them from the register, as lobbying in the eu institutions is increasingly channelled through law firms. legal firms should not be given the option of designating any activity as merely legal advice, thereby avoiding the requirement of register and lobby transparency. creating a unified registry of lobbyists is a good idea. it is important that the council, in addition to the european parliament and the commission, should join the register. in the interests of the usability of the data collected, a common searchable database accessible on the internet covering all institutions should be rapidly established.
mr president, as the president of the estonian ski association, i agree with the concern mentioned in the report on the decreasing number of hours in both primary and secondary education for physical education. physical education helps schoolchildren to develop the habit of pursuing a healthy lifestyle. it is a great challenge for many people involved in sport to increase their interest in sporting activities. for example, the estonian ski association has created a year-round system of participation for children and non-professionals, but this has been quite an expensive undertaking. in this connection, i should point out that the funding of sporting activities benefits greatly from gambling. many sports are subsidised from the profits of state-run lotteries as well as licensed gambling. i think that we have to find some alternative sources of financial support if we do not use that money.
in writing. there was a lot of talk about the role of sport in culture, its impact on health, etc. from both a physical and a moral standpoint, sports have a very important role to play. in recent years, europe has been actively promoting social inclusion to give all people the opportunity to participate fully in society. but i am deeply sorry that disabled sports are not touched at all. as the president of the estonian sports federation for people with physical disabilities, i know how difficult it is to organise these sports events, to cover them in the media, to get funds from the state and also from sponsors. our athletes feel that they are not created equal conditions and opportunities.
madam president, i voted against paragraph 141, which declares full support for the yogyakarta principles. now, these principles are anything but clearly defined, especially on such delicate issues as sexual orientation and gender identity. instead, i supported amendment 15, which ‘takes note of’ these principles. the point is that these principles should not be interpreted as something like a norm for the member states.
mr president, i would like to continue the topic raised by my colleague, thomas mann, about moving intergroup meetings to thursday afternoons. if the point is to help meps to concentrate more on plenaries, i really doubt it. in a way it is our job to be mädchen für alles, to divide our time between different activities, and such a step also cannot prevent most meps leaving thursday afternoon, because they have to catch their planes to reach their homes, to meet their voters the next day, friday. and i am afraid that in this way the intergroups will unfortunately be placed between the hammer of plenaries and the anvil of constituencies. i think it would deal a crippling blow to their vibrant activities. maybe the best way is to trust intergroups to find the most practical and flexible modus vivendi by themselves, and i am encouraged by your response to thomas mann, mr president.
mr president, the opening of negotiations on a new eu partnership and cooperation agreement with the russian federation has experienced certain setbacks, owing to the behaviour of some member states, that many might perceive as obstructionist. i am glad the eu council presidency, the commission and lithuania have reached a consensus that enables us to renew the old agreement, which expired last year. in delaying negotiations with russia we are sawing off the branch on which we are sitting. there are several topics, from the environment and energy to visa regimes, immigration, cross-border projects and unresolved issues relating to georgia and moldova, that require a comprehensive political agreement on common objectives and measures. i trust that the commission will use its mandate in the negotiations to the best interests of all the member states.
, in writing. – this report gives a good overview of the problems that the azores, the canary islands, guadeloupe, french guiana, martinique, réunion, saint-martin and saint-barthelemy are facing as geographically distant regions of the european union, but it also points out the disparities in the treatment of different overseas territories of the member states. there are still several regions under the sovereignty of member states that do not share the same status as the outermost regions. for example the citizens of the british virgin islands or greenland are citizens of the european union, but european parliamentary elections are not held in those regions, while the citizens of aruba are citizens of the european union who happen to be entitled to vote in the european parliamentary elections. but even more confusing is the fact that none of the aforementioned territories is actually a part of the european union. it is my firm belief that the european union’s relationship with the member states’ overseas territories and citizens of all those territories should become uniform, bearing in mind the equal treatment of the citizens of the european union.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr lehtinen, for his contribution to the preparation of this report. one of the key objectives of the consumer policy strategy presented by the commission is to place consumer protection at the heart of the internal market agenda in the eu. i would like to emphasise that it is precisely by being able to create the best possible conditions for our consumers that we are taking an important step towards the objectives of the european union. how can we do that? consumers must have access to accurate information on which to base their decisions. a conscious consumer is also a more active consumer! a well-functioning internal market must ensure that eu citizens have a good choice, reasonable prices and the opportunity to buy high-quality goods as well as services. the second important issue is collective complaints, which, unlike in some neighbouring countries, are not possible in estonia. i don't want to believe that this has improved our consumer situation in any way. it's the opposite. it is important to learn from the experience of others - the damage claim must relate to the damage actually suffered. however, it is important that the consumer can assert his rights and not give up because he does not have sufficient resources to frequently take legal action against a service or a good supplier from another country. our clear wording here protects the interests of the consumer and i think the key issue is the need for collective bargaining on cross-border issues.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, the commission is not a party to the treaty. the european council in spring will discuss the guidelines for growth and employment for the next three years. the lisbon agenda is beginning to bear fruit. that's good, but we probably haven't paid much attention to the social inclusion aspect of his work. the lisbon agenda has created new jobs, but not always the best. it is not enough to set bold goals education and training systems need to be adapted and their capacity increased to meet the needs of a knowledge-based economy and society. it is very important to promote a life-cycle approach to work. the lisbon agenda needs to strengthen its social dimension. the emphasis should not be on the flexibility of the employment relationship alone, but on the flexibility protected. only a balance between flexibility and protection will improve employment and social inclusion. we must work to ensure that the positive developments in the fields of economy, employment and social policy complement each other. allow me to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work.
the honourable commissioner, the president, colleagues. equality before the law and protection against discrimination is a human right - it is enshrined in the constitutions of our member states, of all member states. yet our citizens are not free from discrimination. for example, community law regulates gender equality in employment relations; less attention has been paid to the enforcement of the law. how else to explain eurostat's annual public surveys, which show large differences in the pay of women and men in several member states? in my home country of estonia, it's 27 percent, and that's to the detriment of women. and it's been that way for over a decade, and it's still that way today. as important as the legal regulation of the subject is the protection of this right. we must also deal with this and, if necessary, initiate infringement proceedings. legal certainty is exactly what our citizens need.
, in writing. non-discrimination and human rights are core values of the eu. this is what we want to build our future on, so there's no room for compromise. article 13 expresses this well and should be a guide for any issue affecting european citizens. protection against discrimination on the grounds of age, sexual orientation, religious beliefs and disability is currently lacking in areas such as social welfare, goods and services, health and education. unfortunately, there is no eu legislation in these areas. if non-discrimination and human rights are our priorities, there is no doubt that we need a directive - a horizontal directive - to end the hierarchy of rights. a situation where discrimination is illegal in one area and permissible in another. a situation in which racial identity and disability are considerably more protected than the other grounds referred to in article 13. in the light of this report, i call on the commission not to withdraw the undertaking and to draw up a directive to combat discrimination in accordance with article 13 of the ec treaty. an unprecedented number of european ngos have come forward to defend the horizontal directive, as have brussels-based umbrella organisations in various fields, such as the european women's lobby, age and many others. a horizontal anti-discrimination directive covering social welfare, goods and services, health and education is the only way to promote the protection of human rights in the european union. there is ample evidence of discrimination in all areas. the commission cannot turn a blind eye to this and re-establish the hierarchy of rights in the european union.
in writing. − although having voted in favour of the report, i must draw attention to the fact that article 13 of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state states that this directive shall apply starting from 1 january 1993. let me remind you that after the illegal annexation of the republic of estonia by the soviet union in 1940 numerous artefacts were moved from estonia to different destinations in the soviet union that have not been returned, among those objects the presidential collar. i hope that the commission has not forgotten about that and will soon produce a proposal for a directive dealing with unlawful removals prior to 1993.
on behalf of the alde group. the honourable commissioner, the president, colleagues. life in the modern world is increasingly linked to the development of science and technology, and also to technological developments through new or improved products and services. european women scientists are undoubtedly contributing to this process. we've already mentioned that there are more female students than male students in universities, and it's the same in master's degrees, doctorates, and so on. however, in research and education institutions, women hold seven times fewer senior positions than men, at an average of 15%. why is that? science has always been predominantly male. this peculiarity is justified by the argument that true knowledge can be attained by means of objective methods and logical reasoning that are not natural to women or men. the fact that the scientific community is still predominantly male is itself more a consequence of the attribution of masculinity to scientific thought than a cause of it. from the point of view of academic science, equating objectivity with masculinity is a myth. the reality today is that this myth undoubtedly promotes both the allocation of jobs and the decision-making process for research funding. the media, which portrays women in a one-sided and biased way, also contributes to this demeaning attitude. often, women in any position are portrayed in the media primarily as members of a women's group rather than as professionals in their field. yet, little has been done to change this and to better harness the potential of women. in order to change the prevailing opinion in society, science must be promoted from the ground up in society as an interesting and attractive field for both sexes. you should lose the pictures of the abaij, the woman with the baby, the man behind the spaceship. i support the positive measures set out in the report to encourage and support women scientists, whether through counselling services for women scientists or specific programmes to support girls and women's interest in pursuing a scientific career. however, the introduction of mechanical sourcing quotas cannot be supported as they are applied for a specific period of time and may result in a mere quantity rather than quality. i thank the rapporteur for her substantive work and i apologize.
, in writing. climate change and human activities are behind it. when i took ice samples at the antarctic research station 40 years ago, we didn't know that yet. today, the ipcc, which brings together the work of thousands of scientists, has provided enough evidence that climate change exists, and it's our job to act instead of continuing to prove it. in this respect, i fully agree with the approach taken by the rapporteur, mr florenz. the european union must be ambitious and aim to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by 30% by 2020. otherwise, it is difficult to expect any serious contribution from other countries. it is strange that the council is in agreement on the general objectives, but when it comes to co2 emissions from cars or any other specific measures to achieve the objectives, it no longer dares to set ambitious targets. this is not the way to combat climate change effectively. i support the amendments which call for more detailed research and modelling of the state of the oceans and seas and the impact of climate change on fisheries. i cannot agree with some of the amendments which cast doubt on the question of climate change, stress the importance of fossil fuels and nuclear energy and ridicule the development of renewable energy. i believe that the temporary committee on climate change in parliament has been helpful in raising awareness and articulating a common position among members from different walks of life. as a compromise, it is reasonable to extend the commission's mandate for nine months, until the poznan meeting. a longer deadline could have made our important work too election-scented.
the chairman of the council. - given the time constraints and the noise in the hall, i'll try to keep it as short as possible. the debate that has just taken place, and in particular the report by mrs oomen-ruijten, confirm a fact that the council is also aware of: that any process of reform is difficult. and that goes for turkey, too. in this process, the state is faced with great dilemmas, dilemmas that relate to values such as secularism, democracy, human rights. this is evident from the processes that have been mentioned several times, which are mentioned in the report and which are also discussed by the council. the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the process of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of the processes of processes of processes of processes of processes i would stress that turkey has made progress in these areas, but progress is visible but not yet sufficient. progress is being made in criminal law reform, foundation law, the status of women - just look at the number of women in parliament, which has increased - but progress is not enough in all these areas. as regards the cyprus question, i would also like to stress that the council expects turkey to play two main roles: to play a constructive role in the negotiations under the auspices of the united nations and to implement the additional protocol to the ankara agreement. those are the main tasks, but there are others. in all this, of course, it is useful for turkey to have one objective in mind. and this objective is achieved, this objective was agreed unanimously when the european union granted turkey candidate status and it is on this basis that accession negotiations are continuing. the slovenian presidency has made progress in the accession negotiations with turkey one of its priorities and we hope that we will succeed in achieving this objective and that we will be able to open additional negotiating chapters in the short term. of course, the achievement of the ultimate objective is uncertain, depends on the outcome of the accession negotiations, on the success of the reforms, depends on us as member states as well as on the candidate country.
member of the commission. − madam president, i want to thank the rapporteur and the members for a very serious and responsible debate at a very critical time for eu-turkey relations. i have taken due note of your messages which are also codified in the draft resolution and in the compromise amendments. i would pick up three particular messages, the first being that it is essential to relaunch the reforms in full so that the fundamental freedoms of turkish citizens are enhanced and turkey is itself helped to meet the eu copenhagen criteria. the second message is that citizens’ rights must be respected in the everyday life of society. i share your concern in compromise amendment 32 about the excessive use of force by turkish police against demonstrators at this year’s may day rally in istanbul. it is important that we reaffirm that the freedom of association and the peaceful operation of trade unions represent a fundamental right under the european convention of human rights. the third and final message is that the european parliament is clearly very concerned about the closure case. closing down a political party is not, and cannot be, business as usual. it cannot be taken lightly in a european democracy. so there is much at stake again this year in turkey and in eu-turkey relations. the best medicine to truly revitalise turkey’s eu accession process is to ensure that the reforms move forward, that a genuine political dialogue is started in turkey and that both democracy and secularism are respected.
, in writing. – turkey as the largest state with accession perspectives is and will be a strategically important partner and ally of europe. it is in the interest of all to develop a reliable relationship based on values and mutual respect. the eu must support the democratically elected government and should condemn attempts to undermine it. however, pursuing eu membership can only be reliable if the candidate country recognizes and conducts normal relations with each and every eu member state. although the current situation shows signs of consolidation, i still call upon turkey to finally meet the fundamental accession criteria in recognizing the republic of cyprus and withdrawing turkish army units. fully meeting the copenhagen criteria is continuously a key condition for eu membership. the turkish administration has made considerable efforts in this field. in 2007 democracy was strengthened there. still, a political initiative for a lasting settlement of the kurdish issue is expected, including real possibilities to study and use the kurdish language. we also look forward to convincing measures to stop religiously motivated violence against christian minorities and the providing of equal opportunities for all religious communities to freely erect houses of worship.
mr president, i have only a brief remark regarding the parliamentary calendar next year. although the parliamentary elections have been fixed for the period from 4 to 7 june, thus cutting my term one week shorter than 5 years, i am glad that the elections are not being held from 11 to 14 june. sunday is traditionally the day when elections are held in estonia, but had the european elections been held on 14 june – the national day of mourning commemorating the mass deportation of 1941 carried out by the soviet authorities – the flags would have been flying at half mast all over estonia. it would not have been a very happy day to hold the elections to the european parliament.
in writing. − having supported the report, may i remind you that the first speech that i made in this chamber, on 13 december 2004, concerned turkey's progress towards accession, insisting that before even considering their membership, turkey should first recognise the legitimate greek cypriot government, acknowledge the 1915 armenian genocide and improve the situation of the world's largest stateless nation, the kurds. in four years none of those issues has been resolved. there has been no remarkable progress in turkey's relations with cyprus, no sign of willingness to admit past crimes. instead, the turkish army, with the authorisation of the turkish parliament, is carrying out genocide against the kurds. the european union must take a firmer stance on turkey and halt the negotiations until the aforementioned issues have been resolved.
madam president, there is one human priority: to get international humanitarian aid to the millions of human beings who have been pushed to the verge of extermination. it is a military junta that bears responsibility first for failing to warn their population in time about the approaching cyclone and secondly for refusing to let humanitarian aid enter the country. now i think it is time to take this gang, which has committed crimes against humanity, to the international criminal court in the hague, but this needs a concentrated international effort. in the mean time, all possible pressure should be put on the burmese rulers and their allies, including china, to engage first in the humanitarian relief phase before starting the self-proclaimed reconstruction phase.
member of the commission. - madam president, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank mr van hecke and the committee on development for this excellent report. i am glad to see that we have exactly the same approach and are striving for the same results. i believe that the next six months will be of crucial importance in testing the european union's real willingness to make real progress on the three main pillars of development policy: firstly, the achievement of the millennium development goals; secondly, the increase in aid volumes; and thirdly, the improvement of aid effectiveness. the accra meeting in september will be a test of credibility for the whole process and for all the actors. either the process really takes off, or it's stuck forever. today's debate is therefore all the more important because it can convey a strong message to next week's cagre. the agre will discuss the commission's proposals in relation to the objectives. i hope that cagre will send out a message as ambitious as the one contained in your report, mr van hecke. together, we europeans made a difference in paris in 2005. we must have the same ambition today: to ensure that in accra we move from rhetoric to action on all our commitments. i have heard too many voices from our member states who want to turn accra and this debate into a technical debate about feasibility, efficiency, etc. this is not a technical debate. accra is not a technical meeting. accra is a political meeting. this is where the political will of the member states to honour their commitments will be tested. it's not a win-win. the commission cannot act alone. i therefore call for the mobilization of all your resources and contacts to make this summit a real success. the burden of proof now lies with the member states and non-european donors. an alliance between parliament and the commission is therefore indispensable. i'm not going to repeat what's in the report. i agree almost 100% with what it says. progress must be made in the important areas, to name just a few. first, the predictability of aid. i am particularly grateful for the support of parliament for the omc contract. that is one of the proposals i will put on the table in accra. of course, the partner countries will have to play their part in this contract and, of course, monitoring mechanisms will have to be put in place. secondly, the increased use of national procedures. that is why i have asked that budgetary aid be the preferred instrument for delivering aid to countries where it is possible. it is not without interest - and i think it is important for you to keep in mind the figure i am going to give - to note that tanzania has to produce, to date, some 2,400 reports for the various donors and, listen to me, more than 8,000 audit reports for the multilateral development banks. but it is a very difficult situation, and we must admit that there is a real problem. the report rightly stresses the need for greater transparency and accountability in development aid, but this cannot be done in this jungle of reports. only the strengthening of parliamentary control over the financing of development and its inclusion in the budget of the state you mention will make this possible. we must promote 'democratic ownership' and we will support partner countries in their efforts to strengthen this ownership and control. the role of parliaments and civil society is obviously crucial in this regard. third element, the division of labour. the code of conduct must become a reality. another example: in mali, 26 donors are involved in rural development, while in burkina faso, five donors are involved in half of all sectors in the country and half of the donors are involved in one third of all sectors. so there is room for improvement in the various countries in terms of efficiency, and i would really like to have the support of parliament in trying to convince the member states that we need a better division of labour. there would be a tremendous increase in aid effectiveness. fourthly, the fragility of situations. as a final example, in 2006, 65% of aid to côte d'ivoire, liberia and the central african republic came from just three bilateral donors. here too we have already proposed pilot countries involving the largest number of member states. on the procedural side, i asked for the full flexibility allowed by the current regulations to be used to improve the commission's ability to react. however, it must be remembered that aid effectiveness is not a matter for donors alone or a matter for the donors alone. on the contrary, it must also be the centrepiece of the action of the partner countries and be at the heart of our dialogue with them. only partner countries can force us to be more effective in delivering aid by actively defining not only their development objectives but also the modalities of their implementation. only in this way can our dialogue develop into a partnership based on equal rights and duties. a final point before concluding: you ask the commission to give the delegations sufficient capacity for action. how right you are! we're trying to do that through our decentralization process. we have a lot of demand for our delegations. the resources are limited, as you know, and in the end the ability to use our delegations also depends on the budgetary authority. finally, once again, i would like to ask you to help us convince our member states - as mr van hecke said - that it is a moral duty, an unavoidable obligation, to respect the commitments they made in 2005 on the amount of aid allocated. but you know that 2007 is a year to be forgotten as soon as possible because some countries have not fulfilled their commitments, which has obscured the good behaviour of other countries which have shown their ability to do so. that is why, mr van hecke, we are going to propose, firstly, that they reconfirm their 2005 commitment and, secondly, that they present an agenda, a road map, a 'phase-by-phase' on how they are going to achieve the objectives they have agreed to. as i said at the beginning of this speech, the game is not won, because the preliminary meetings that i have been informed of indicate that a number of member states would even be prepared to refuse to reconfirm the 2005 commitments, which is of course unacceptable, and others, of course, would also not be prepared to do the programming in stages. i therefore need your strength of conviction and also, let us say, your ability to be impertinent to put everyone in front of their responsibilities.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank my colleague, johan van hecke, for an excellent report. i endorse fully paragraph 1 of the report. however, the member states and the commission can only make their actions more harmonised, transparent, predictable and collectively effective if they pool resources under a single institution responsible for development aid. that is my first point. aid effectiveness is in our own hands, as quite often we spend far too much on the administration in charge of responsible use of development aid in target countries. we should save, for example, on staff training, administration and expenses so that more development aid actually reaches the recipients. at the moment there is no proper coordination between the member states concerning the allocation of their funds. according to the principle of subsidiarity the executive power ought to reside at the lowest feasible level unless designation of power to a higher level presents considerable advantages. there is no universal solution to the problem of low aid effectiveness but one step should be serious and swift changes to the administration framework through further centralisation, as we are continuously losing time and human lives.
my dear colleagues, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work. inadequate coordination and overloading of programmes have reduced the effectiveness of development aid. aid is also concentrated in so-called attractive countries some regions are thus virtually forgotten. the fragmentation has led to a dispersion of aid measures, in some cases even to reciprocity. however, it is essential that the development cooperation policies of the european union and the member states complement and reinforce each other. member states must coordinate their actions. it should be noted that many member states are only in the early stages of providing development aid, but the effectiveness of development aid is seen in these countries. for example, estonia, which has not yet joined the paris declaration, has stood out with its tripartite cooperation projects. the so-called silent partnership option is used to avoid fragmentation of the arengab and excessive concentration of donors. more than half of the world's official development assistance comes from the european union. it is important to ensure the presence of the european union in weak countries and especially in the so-called forgotten countries. when we give aid, we, the european union, should be generous, so that it can be received with dignity.
mr president, i supported the new paragraph to be added after paragraph 12, which calls on the commission and member states ‘to acknowledge the eu’s dependence on imports of vegetable proteins from third countries’, with the very important result of establishing, first, ‘workable import rules based on gm thresholds’ and, secondly, of reducing ‘unnecessary delays in the eu gm approval system’.
in writing. − when i participated in the election observation mission in nigeria last april, i came across the shocking fact that nigeria, once an exporter of agricultural products, had become an importer of food. the demographic situation in the developing countries has increased the demand for food drastically, but ongoing military conflicts, the fight against deadly diseases, such as hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis as well as ineffective administration have distracted the governments of developing countries from responding to this need. i supported the european parliament resolution on rising food prices in the european union and developing countries and hope that the european union will continue improving its development policies and engage further in fair international trade.
colleagues, sudan is a country that has taken upon itself the right to be different. a country where violence, terror and widespread rape are a daily and unpunished phenomenon. a country that is based on values other than human rights. the situation is critical: since the beginning of the darfur conflict, more than 200,000 people have been killed in the five years since. the perpetrators of crimes against humanity and war crimes are at large - and some of them are in high places in sudan. the sudanese judiciary is unable or unwilling to deal with the situation in darfur. reforms are needed, the system must be based on internationally recognised human rights standards. impunity must end. the government of sudan's cooperation with the icc is essential. the rome statute of the international criminal court must be ratified, war criminals brought to justice. the situation needs to change, not now, but immediately.
on behalf of the pse group dear colleagues, on human rights day, 10 december, the belsat tv station began broadcasting in poland with the aim of providing belarusians with independent information about events in belarus, europe and the rest of the world. the mainly belarusian-language channel currently reaches 10% of belarusians via satellite. the station is under constant pressure. in late march, the kgb and police in belarus went on a rampage to capture belsat's local reporters. the journalists were stripped of their basic tools: laptops and broadcasting equipment. independent reporters themselves live in constant fear of interrogation and arrest. the situation in belarus, the eu's immediate neighbour, is as harsh as it was behind the iron curtain. as an estonian and as the head of the moldovan delegation, i would like to say that the citizens of belarus, who were members of the union of nations, need independent information today like oxygen. belsat is a great initiative, but good television doesn't come cheap. the journalists working for belarus belsat, who came to present themselves to us in the european parliament in march, need our full support. i call on the european commission and all our member states to support belsat both financially and morally. let's not forget that a free press is the cornerstone of democracy.
madam president, our message to mr lukashenko but also to the international community is that the european parliament is and will be persistently concerned about the situation in belarus, the last dictatorship of europe. this applies especially to the arrests of peaceful citizens on political grounds. the regime in minsk has indicated recently that it would like to improve relations with the european union. however, engaging in any meaningful dialogue has a very normal precondition: releasing all political prisoners, abstaining from arbitrary arrests, ensuring the freedom of expression and independence of the judiciary and allowing normal participation by the opposition in political life. finally, i would like to join the appeal of ms mikko in appealing to the eu to expand its political and especially material support for the operations of the independent television station, belsat. this is the real channel to changing the situation in belarus, not necessarily our resolutions.
mr president, today’s message should be that the cfsp should more than ever be based on common european values. to the ever-increasing security challenges there is one convincing answer: solidarity and enhanced coordination of common foreign and security policies. those value-based objectives should be seen as taking priority over bilateral relations and javier solana was right in telling us that what really matters is political will. as for energy security, i would like to call on the commission and the council to take serious account of parliament’s position from last september on foreign energy security, which also offers some institutional improvements. this report also calls on the commission to concentrate all its efforts on successfully completing the nabucco pipeline. i think it is not a question of one or the other: we should build our own pipeline in practical terms and effectively. finally, it is high time to effectively address the new cyber-challenges, as the rapporteur, mr kuhne, mentioned. i would like to use the term ‘cyber-terrorism’. a year ago, one million computers from all over the world were mobilised to block government institutions and banks in estonia. i think the european parliament too has to prepare a concise stand on how to respond to the threats of the newest technologies, which up to now seem to surpass the progress achieved by the lisbon strategy.
in writing. dear colleagues,an effective foreign and security policy cannot be achieved by member states alone. a bilateral solution to energy-related foreign policy issues will have a devastating effect on our credibility. it is unacceptable that the european union's weight in international relations is still often outweighed by that of some member states. the european union must speak with the world's major powers, and in particular with the russian federation, with one voice, in the common interests of all 27 member states. it's the only way we'll be considered equal partners in both america and asia. i am pleased that the report by mr saryusz-wolski emphasises the strengthening of the european neighbourhood policy as a key objective for 2008. the european parliament's neighbourhood east conference today and tomorrow shows that we are serious about our objective. activity in the democratization of neighbours and conflict resolution is essential for the security of the european union. we have to help moldova solve the transnistrian conflict. as head of the moldovan delegation, i also feel it necessary to recall that the prospect of membership of the european union is of paramount importance to both moldova and ukraine. this opportunity is a catalyst for economic reform and democratization. the three copenhagen criteria will take time to be met, but moldova and ukraine have shown their readiness for european development. the fourth copenhagen criterion, the eu's absorption capacity, must not in any case be an obstacle to the accession of these two european countries to the european union. expansion must surely continue.
in writing. – the report of mr saryusz-wolski reaffirms the european union's commitment to the un millennium development goals, but this phrase in itself has become a little shallow, as it is being used lavishly in the eu development policy discourse, when very little progress is actually made and the mdgs are still beyond our reach. of all the member states only denmark, luxembourg, the netherlands and sweden are contributing more than 0.7% of their gdp to official development assistance, although the 0.7% target was adopted as early as october 24, 1970 within the international development strategy for the second united nations development decade. i am convinced that ensuring the credibility of the eu as a global player should be a significant part of the common foreign and security policy. fulfilling the commitments that we have taken would be an excellent start. the eu and its member states must transform the verbose declarations reaffirming their commitments into harmonised and collectively effective action. in my opinion this can only be achieved when pooling resources and establishing one single eu institution responsible for the accumulation, allocation and disbursement of the official development assistance.
in writing. – it is the moment to stress with all clarity and responsibility that the eu-us partnership is not only a cornerstone of the credible and efficient eu foreign actions but that only close cooperation and coordination between both partners would enable them to play key roles in the globalising world and to be guarantors of stability and democracy. the european union has no other partner in the world with whom to share the basic values of freedom, the rule of law and defence of human rights. it is high time to fully restore normal cooperation and mutual trust after the damage that has followed the iraqi invasion. the latter has dramatically split the eu itself. therefore, i strongly call on both partners to complete without delays the work of the transatlantic economic council. also a joint approach to the problems of climate change will substantially enhance the chances of solving these problems. the same applies for iran. both the usa and eu need to agree on a common strategy on iran to efficiently stop preparations to develop nuclear weapons there. finally, we need a stronger redefined eu-nato partnership which will also improve our cooperation in afghanistan.
in writing. – the commission offers three strategies in the green paper on retail financial services to promote integration of the retail markets in financial services - lower prices and more choice, empowering consumers and enhancing consumer protection. firstly, i would like to focus on consumer empowerment and i would like to highlight the need to raise the level of financial literacy. at the recent consumer financial education hearing we saw a number of practical examples of consumer financial education programmes. further efforts could be made to share best practices in this area across the member states, bearing in mind the new member states in particular. regarding consumer choice, it is clear that consumers who wish to change financial services providers must be able to do so with a minimum of costs and legal barriers. as regards information given to the consumer, it is not enough to provide consumers with as much information as possible. overloading the consumer with information will have the opposite effect. nonetheless, sufficient information which helps the consumer to make informed choices has to be provided.
on behalf of the alde group. the honourable commissioner, my dear colleagues. it seems to be symbolic that we discuss light-fearing acts in the dark of night. each year, hundreds of thousands of women are abused in the european sex industry. it's a fast-growing industry, a melting pot of new technology, crime, drugs, big money, but it can be summed up in one word: violence. it is known that most women are drawn into the sex trade by poor social conditions, mostly poverty and unemployment. the largest number of prostitutes come from regions with high unemployment, but on the european union scale from poorer eastern european countries. this shows that the eu and the member states, individually, must first address the issue of improving the skills of women at risk and implementing active labour market measures for them. there is no doubt that campaigns such as the red card for forced prostitution have an important place in raising awareness of the problem of prostitution and also have a certain periodic impact on raising awareness of the problem in society. but i do feel that the issue of forced prostitution and trafficking of women for sexual exploitation needs to be brought to the attention of society and the public at all times. i think that often the money spent on preventive measures is also more economically efficient, being ultimately cheaper, than constantly dealing with the final consequences of the problem. in addition to preventive measures, enhanced police cooperation between member states, particularly in the context of the schengen visa area, should also be considered important. i call on the commission and the political parties represented here to be resolute and to help put prostitution in the dustbin of history and to support the banning of the purchase of prostitution services in their home countries. by blocking demand, we'll finally get to our goal. in conclusion, it is important to stress that there must be zero tolerance for prostitution and trafficking in human beings throughout the european union. we're going to decide and act.
mr president, i would like to put on record that, if we call for the sending of an esdp border mission to georgia, then we should also consider in the near future sending an eu police mission to georgia.
mr president, i would like to support the original amendment by my colleague, james elles, who has proposed a new paragraph which declares that the eu recognises the substantial contribution to the protection of the eu from long-range ballistic missiles to be provided by the planned deployment of the european-based us missile defence assets.
in writing. - there is no doubt that georgia is going through a difficult time. on the one hand, the reluctance of the opposition to enter into dialogue with the ruling party, remaining at the level of street politics. on the other hand, relations with russia over the separatist georgian provinces of abkhazia and south ossetia, which threaten the sovereignty of georgia. russia has increased its military presence in the region on one hand. i think that if the eu has to take steps to replace the russian so-called peacekeepers with real peacekeepers. i believe that if the foreign ministers of the eu countries supported the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia within internationally recognised borders, then the eu, through its special representative, must take a leading role in resolving the conflict between the separatist regions of georgia, russia and tbilisi by offering confidence and security measures to the parties.
in writing. − i supported the reports of lidia joanna geringer de oedenberg and i welcome the idea that at times when the european union is facing major political decisions, we should not occupy ourselves with technical issues in excessive depth. although i would be intrigued to hear the members of this house fiercely debating the political significance of lighting and light-signalling devices on wheeled agricultural or forestry tractors, i fully support using the accelerated working method for official codification of legislative texts in such matters. when the eu is once again in deadlock, we need to concentrate all our attention on finding a way to save the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. – i agree with the commissioner that if we agree to continue with the present status quo, protecting national interests more than standing up for common european interests and values, then the eu will be unable to address the dramatic challenges we face. that is why the eu needs real reform. i strongly advocate a national regulator – an efficient agency having sufficient authority to supervise the fair functioning of the common electricity market. however, my key point is this: as the eu is based on the principles of free competition, we are committed to ensuring, not only in theory but also in real life, that in each member state the consumer will be able to choose freely and without any difficulties between different electricity producers and distributors and to decide which is the best offer. so the real challenge for the member states is to decide between consumers’ interests and those of the big companies. hesitations about putting the individual, the consumer, into the centre of our activities lead logically to events such as the irish negative vote and the increasing indifference of our citizens towards the eu. full ownership unbundling is a key condition for reform. the ‘third way’ is not a credible solution.
mr president, there is no problem as regards respect for the irish voters but we should have equal respect for the decisions made by 18 democratically elected national parliaments and, further, show equal respect for the remaining eight member states, to allow them also freely to decide about the reform treaty. with all due respect for the irish vote, the eu of 27 cannot be taken political hostage by the limited number of opponents to the lisbon treaty. there is no alternative to the eu reform. yes, europe can stop, but the world around us will not stop because of us, and the most dramatic casualty of this vote will be europe’s solidarity: our common foreign and security policy and energy solidarity. there is also an ethical dimension which we need to address. this referendum is a wake-up call for a credible commitment to our principal values. our citizens may never become fully informed about the details of the treaties, but they can always be trusted to differentiate between integrity and real commitment on the one hand and half-truths and realpolitik on the other. instead of living from one national election to the next, instead of indulging in consumer democracy geared to getting more and more money from europe, we need leaders who can make the appeal to our citizens: ‘first of all, what can you do for europe?’ and believe me, if we have such leaders, we will find citizens who will support us.
in writing. dear colleagues, the dublin lisbon treaty was a surprise because it was with the eu's support that ireland has built a competitive economy, stabilised the labour market and created a welfare state. the irish would have been able to vote for a stronger, more competitive and more nationalist european union. personally, i think that putting the lisbon treaty to a referendum seemed democratic, but it was fraudulent. internal problems, which the eu does not address, inevitably create tensions that need to be addressed. it is therefore easy to create a virtual opportunity to express dissatisfaction without choosing the means. the appearance of democracy and the rise of tensions are also indicated by the opinion polls conducted before the referendum, which showed that the people who voted against the lisbon treaty did not know much about its real content or meaning. the question 'why?' has to be answered by irish politicians. ireland has historically been one of the most successful users of eu funding. the irish are known for their eurocentrism. it is all the more ironic that because of ireland, we are stuck in the middle of building a strong future together. estonia ratified the lisbon treaty the day before the irish referendum. this means that unlike dublin, tallinn has contributed to the creation of a common future. i am a strong supporter of the ratification process and believe that ireland will make a new attempt to reassure the 500 million european citizens that they too bear the name of a proud european. dublin's debt to europe is clear.
in writing. – mr president, although the result of the irish referendum was a great disappointment to the european union, it is not the proper time to panic and look for a scapegoat. the european council is about to hold its meeting on june 19 and 20 in brussels. we should first take time to hear the explanations of taoiseach brian cowen and listen to his proposals on how to go on with ireland. in my opinion the remaining eight member states must go on with the ratification as scheduled, despite the irish "no". the treaty of lisbon is indispensable for the successful continuation of the european project. it would be unthinkable to restart new negotiations, as the european union has occupied itself with negotiations on its future for the past nine years. the treaty of lisbon creates a more understandable, democratic and efficient european union and we cannot quit on that just yet.
in writing. i strongly support these amendments, as these strengthen the free competition in the european union, help keeping the prices at reasonable levels and at the same time allow the consumers to assume their freedom to change their electricity supplier any time wished. furthermore this boosts the cross-border electricity sharing and with that also protects the states and the consumers from sudden electricity shortage. i call upon fast action in this field in eliminating unneccessary bureaucracy and burdens to enable the eu electricity companies to act freely throughout the union to strengthen the free competition and to empower the consumers to make concious choices.
mr president, when welcoming the words of president medvedev on the importance of civil rights and rule of law, the eu should make it absolutely clear that the credibility of his statements can be measured only by showing, first of all, full respect for the verdicts of the european court of human rights and contributing to the reform of this body. the most important starting point in aspiring to better relations is unity amongst the eu member states. we especially stress the need to give priority to the long-term benefits of a joint position over the possible short-term advantages of bilateral deals on single issues. these priorities are especially relevant in the field of economics and energy, where the principles of transparency and reciprocity can be the only basis for long-term cooperation, together with equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment.
in writing. mr president, this week in khanty-mansiysk another summit of the european union and russia will take place, followed by the 5th world congress of the finno-ugric peoples. the finno-ugric peoples include the indigenous people of the region, the northern hunter-gatherers the huns and the manx, who gave their name to this siberian region between the steppes and the tundra. the european parliament's five-member delegation will also attend this world congress, as hungarians, finns and estonians are also part of the finno-ugric peoples and have their origins in siberia. i hope that we can do this to draw attention to a small people whose language is in danger of extinction and whose culture is being replaced by thousands of years of representative events. the european union must remain true to its values and protect them, not allow itself to be blinded by the region from which most of russia's energy resources originate. the oil forces there have brought the traditional way of life of the indigenous people into conflict with mankind's ever-increasing need for oil.
madam president, in the case of paragraph 29, which ends, ‘to offer a greater eu involvement in the conflict resolution process’, i support the original version, which adds and continues, ‘including the possibility of an eu peacekeeping mission on the ground and a replacement of the cis and russian troops’. i find that it is absolutely important just now to send a clear message on behalf of the eu that we are ready to make a concrete commitment in the form of a peacekeeping mission in abkhazia.
my dear colleagues. today, on the 63rd birthday of aung san suu kyi, the burmese champion of human rights and democracy, we must pay special attention to what is happening in burma. burma is moving away from democratic values at a cosmic pace. nobel prize and sakharov prize winner aung san suu kyi has now spent 12 years and 239 days in detention. he is not allowed to receive visitors, make phone calls, or receive mail. in addition to this remarkable woman, thousands of peaceful protesters have been imprisoned for political reasons and individuals have mysteriously disappeared. the burmese wolf is a brutal beast. we must condemn the undemocratic and brutal actions of the military government of burma. china must stop supporting burma. aung san suu kyi and the other political prisoners must be released immediately, that is, today. burma cannot be allowed to continue to defy the united nations and the international community.
on behalf of the pse group dear colleagues, somalia has become a land of collision plates, not to mention hell. human rights and international law are being grossly violated, and the country is suffering from poverty. thousands of civilians have been killed and hundreds of thousands have been forced to flee in the fighting between islamists and government forces. people are being killed, raped, tortured every day. according to united nations statistics for 2007, there are some 457,000 somali refugees worldwide. that's half a million somalis who have been forced to leave their homeland in order to survive. over the past three months, violence in mogadishu has forced more than 50,000 people to flee. the situation is out of control. i have sympathy for people fleeing violence. we must do everything in europe to help somalia to move towards peace. we must not allow this conflict to escalate into a regional war. africa needs peace like it needs air.
on behalf of the pse group dear colleagues, the world will not tolerate the death penalty, but iran is making its own rules. the situation in this country is tough. the iranian authorities do not select those to be executed, and the death penalty is also applied to young people. as a country that has ratified the convention on the rights of the child, it stands in sharp contrast to the world. the use of the death penalty is a gross violation of human rights. this is inhuman punishment. so far, the execution of at least 30 minors in iran is a gross injustice. i want to hope that the 85 minors currently on death row will save the world - us included - from their cruel fate. let us hope that the newly elected parliament will bring a new wind of humanity. medieval executions must be left to history. legislation in iran must be brought into line with international law. it's time for iran to adapt to the 21st century. i fully support the resolution.
mr president, just nine days ago an iranian youth, mohammed hassanzadeh, was executed, having not reached the age of 18. there are also others who are waiting on death row, sentenced for alleged crimes they committed when they were still minors. i think this is an occasion to remind public opinion that tehran has become the world leader for the number of executions of juvenile offenders. we therefore urge in the strongest terms the iranian regime to stop these executions. however – and i address my remarks to the commissioner – there are more practical things we can do. we can finally free the hands of the iranian democratic opposition, the national council of resistance, to get rid of this inhuman dictatorship once and for all.
mr president, last week the eu-russia summit was held in khanty-mansiysk and gave an impulse to start talks on a new partnership and cooperation agreement. apart from this important development, president toomas hendrik ilves and president dmitri medvedev held the first official meeting of heads of state of the two countries in over 14 years. the border treaty between the republic of estonia and the russian federation was among several issues discussed. president ilves stated that the preamble that the estonian parliament decided to add to the document, which the state duma subsequently did not ratify, was unnecessary. commissioner siim kallas reminded us that the additional preamble referring to the tartu peace treaty was simply a domestic political provocation during the actual events. i see no reason why this preamble should not be removed from the border treaty as the tartu peace treaty is still a valid international treaty and the new border treaty only acknowledges the control line between estonia and russia, their border, and the external border of the european union.
my colleague, mr toomas savi, has already mentioned khanty-mansiysk, a small place in siberia which hosted both the eu-russia summit at the end of last month, but also another very important event. the fifth world congress of finnish-ottomanism, attended by the presidents of four countries - russia, hungary, finland and estonia. the five-member european parliament delegation also attended this congress, and our aim was to draw attention to the minority ethnic groups of finnish origin - but they live in the russian federation 19 - and to the fact that their language and culture are in danger of disappearing. the eu is also working to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to enjoy the rights of the eu citizens. indeed, the situation is quite deplorable.
member of the commission. - the mr president, i should like to thank the chairman of the committee on petitions, mr libicki, for his report, which gives us the opportunity to discuss the environmental impact of this major project, a 1 200 km gas pipeline that will cross a shallow sea such as the baltic. not only because it is an important project, which raises many questions about environmental protection in the baltic region, but also because it seems to be the first of many similar projects planned for the future. the project has already attracted a great deal of media and political attention throughout the baltic region in recent months. it has been discussed in many forums and in many of the countries concerned. it was also discussed in the european parliament last january, as mr libicki mentioned, at a public hearing organized by the committee on petitions, in which i participated together with my colleague, mr piebalgs, responsible for energy. commissioner piebalgs gave an overview of the european union's gas prospects, stressing that the european union's gas needs are increasing rapidly, while gas production in the european union is falling rapidly and reserves are being depleted. our energy policy for europe emphasises the urgent need to promote energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, and we are working towards this goal. however, significant increases in gas imports will still be needed to meet europe's energy needs in the coming decades. additional infrastructure, such as gas pipelines and lng terminals, will be essential to meet the needs of european consumers and to ensure their continued supply. the nord stream pipeline will make it possible to increase gas supplies from russia. as you know, the need to build new infrastructure for the transport of russian gas to the european union was recognised by the european parliament and the council when they adopted the guidelines for trans-european energy networks in september 2006. i refer in particular to decision 1364/2006 of the european parliament and of the council. the guidelines identified a number of priority projects, and this project is classified as a project of european interest, i.e. as a project of the highest priority. subject to the positive conclusions of the environmental impact study, the nord stream pipeline will be a project of european interest. my main message at the hearing in the european parliament in january was that the project, like any other project, must comply with all relevant environmental rules of international and community law during its construction, operation and monitoring phases. i would like to convey the same message today. according to international and community law, the project owner, namely nordstream ag, must therefore apply for a development or construction permit from the countries under whose jurisdiction the projects are to be carried out, namely germany, denmark, finland and sweden. however, the granting of a permit for such projects requires an environmental impact assessment procedure. the same is true of the guidelines for transeuropean energy networks which i have just mentioned. environmental impact assessment procedures are provided for in both community and international law. there is a community directive and the espoo convention in a cross-border context. the espoo convention is part of the community acquis, since both the community and the member states are parties to it. in this case, the procedures of both community and national law apply. the cross-border nature of the project requires the application of the espoo convention, and the member states concerned are obliged to correctly apply the provisions of the environmental impact assessment directive before issuing the permit. the environmental impact procedure under the espoo convention was already initiated with the notification of the project at the end of 2006. according to the information available to the commission, numerous studies, reports and issues have been discussed in various forums and meetings with both the public and the competent authorities in various member states. as provided for in the espoo convention, the contractor, the owner of the project, must provide appropriate documentation on the environmental impact. at the same time, the country responsible for issuing the licence, the country of origin, the country of origin, as it is called in the espoo convention, has two obligations: first, to organise consultations with the environmental authorities and the public concerned and, secondly, to initiate consultations with the affected party or parties, i.e. the neighbouring countries, which may be affected by the project's cross-border effects. in this case, the three baltic states and poland are considered to be affected parties. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. at this stage, any emphasis on potential negative environmental impacts that cannot be mitigated or eliminated as provided for by environmental impact legislation is premature. the final report on environmental impact assessments has not yet been drawn up. the environmental authorities have therefore not yet had the opportunity to analyse and evaluate all the technical information needed to answer all the legitimate questions. the countries of origin have the legal right to require all the additional information they consider necessary to be able to grant, if they so decide, the execution permit, as sweden has already done, when the project owner has submitted a formal application in order to fulfil national legal requirements. on the other hand, the parties concerned also have a legal right to make sure that they have all the information necessary to meet their needs. i am informed that all the parties concerned, i.e. both the parties of origin and the parties concerned, meet regularly and discuss developments in the environmental impact procedure under the espoo convention. the final environmental impact report is expected to be submitted by the end of the year. after its submission, the formal consultations will take place, which will determine the final decision on the granting of an execution licence. i expect the competent authorities in all the member states which are parties to the espoo convention to fulfil their duties and assume their responsibilities as they should. russia, which has signed but is not a party to the espoo convention, has nevertheless agreed to abide by its rules. in conclusion, i would like to stress that we are following developments closely, we are in contact with the espoo convention authorities, the parties concerned and the contractor. as regards the latter, the commission services have made it clear that it is necessary to fulfil all the obligations relating to the necessary information and the required transparency. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − the only valid arguments left open for the construction of the baltic sea gas pipeline are those of environmental protection. the swiss company nord stream failed to submit its environmental impact assessment report by the deadline, so the european parliament will vote in the dark. it also appears that the environmental impact assessment commissioned by nord stream has been supplemented by new research tasks only after the parliament has pointed out significant shortcomings in the planning of the research. the most significant omission in this regard was the sinking of dozens of warships with ammunition in the gulf of finland in august 1941, a fact that was only acknowledged by russian duma deputy andrei klimov ten days ago. but last year, it was reported that the track was completely clear. particular attention should be paid to phosphorus released from these sediments during the dredging of bottom sediments, which according to the environmental assessment does not affect eutrophication, but according to another research group does. there's also the fear of releasing dioxins and heavy metals. the latter involves the poisoning of humans by fish used for food. as we know, both these substances and the level of radioactivity in the baltic sea are the highest in the world.
mr president, i think this report is going to be a test case whether the european parliament has to serve the interests of the citizens first – and citizens are really worried – or yield to the pressure of big companies, a pressure that has become really embarrassing. i regret that this issue has been highly politicised. but this is a result of how the thing was started through bilateral deals, ignoring all the other interested parties. now i think what we need – and i fully agree with mrs wallis – is a coordinated, coherent eu approach and strict observance of eu law. the precondition for building the pipeline should be a truly independent environmental impact study under the supervision of the commission, establishing liability for possible damages, and russia ratifying the espoo convention. (the president cut off the speaker.)
in writing. article 194 of the future treaty on the functioning of the european union (treaty of lisbon) explicitly states that eu energy policy should be conducted in a spirit of solidarity between member states and with a view to preserving and improving the environment. it is hard to disagree that in europe, where the preservation of the natural environment has been the subject of much discussion in recent years, the natural environment is suddenly being sacrificed to the eu's external energy policy. given that the baltic sea is already one of the most polluted marine areas, it is unacceptable to create additional sources of risk to the baltic sea ecosystem, which could lead to a natural and economic disaster in the region in the future. i would call on the european parliament to support the idea put forward by the baltic sea states, the rapporteur and environmental organisations to build this northern gas pipeline overland and i would ask the european commission and the council to use all the legal means at their disposal to change the pipeline builder's plans to build this pipeline in the baltic sea.
mr president, recital q concerns the algae population, whose blooming poses a particular risk to finland, sweden and germany. i suppose that algae does not differentiate between sweden, latvia or other nations, as it is driven by the wind. so the text of the oral amendment is as follows: ‘whereas the performance of works under the special conditions obtaining in the baltic sea will result in a sudden increase in the algae population, which could pose a particular risk to finland, sweden, germany and the baltic states,’. it stops here. i regret that poland was excluded, but it was due to technical reasons.
in writing. − i voted against this amendment as it basically changes the idea of the original text. the original version calls for considering alternatives to the existing gas pipeline project – alternatives which would be at least three times less costly and would not impose high environmental risks. i cannot agree with the amendment which prioritizes the demand for gas at the cost of neglecting eu environmental legislation and citizens' worries. i would also like to point out that the gas pipeline in question is originally meant to bypass the seven other countries around the baltic sea, supplying only one or two eu member states, therefore the argument of meeting an increased demand for gas cannot be regarded as relevant.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i thank the rapporteur and the commission for the admirable work they have done in simplifying and modernising the clumsy regulations that have been in place. the subject we are discussing today is of direct concern to our citizens. what is important to the citizen the regulated subject? first, that civil rights be guaranteed and, given the free movement of labour today, that social protection be guaranteed everywhere. second, to make the document understandable to him. third, the compensation mechanism should be operational within a reasonable time. what are we getting at with regulations? the first interest of our citizens - the right to social security - is very well guaranteed. the second interest, however, is that of general understanding, which we have not yet fully succeeded in doing. i'm not accusing anyone, the subject is complicated, quite technical, and not fictional. thirdly, the length of time it will take for a citizen to receive compensation will depend on our vote today. the social security benefit is not comparable to the company's profits or bank dividends. the claim is made by a person who is in difficulty and for whom it is generally the only source of income. i therefore invite you to support proposals that offer a six-month period of compensation to the citizen. in order to ensure the realisation and protection of citizens' rights, the clearing period between the respective institutions of the member states should also be the same, i.e. six months. the more so since the electronic procedure is applicable. the 18-month processing period for compensation is not relevant in the 21st century.
my dear colleagues. the olympic movement has always strived for a better world. the big event that started in beijing has helped to bring attention to tibet and human rights. the dialogue between beijing and the dalai lama must continue. in giving china the opportunity to host the world's biggest sporting event, the ioc set a very clear condition that by 2008, china must respect human rights. we know that never happened. the olympics have never been just a sport. the basic principles of the olympic charter have much in common with those of the european union, in terms of fundamental rights of citizens and human rights, where no discount is offered. the charter states: 'the state hosting the games shall respect human dignity and shall not harass its citizens on ethnic or religious grounds.' so i end by agreeing with the idea that president sarkozy should be in front of a tv in paris and not in the olympic stadium in beijing.
in writing. – an important start for dealing with further enlargements is a clear understanding that the eu has greatly benefited from all past enlargements. the latter have resulted in a win-win situation for all interested parties. this provides us with a credible basis to believe that the eu will also benefit from coming enlargements. one can well understand the concern relating to the eu integration capacity. however, the most efficient potential for enhancing integration capacity is still not fully used. this is making full use of the eu’s four fundamental freedoms – liberalising markets, unbundling big companies, providing for transparency. to successfully address the global challenges we need to rely without further hesitations on the fundamental values and principles of the european community, which has been and still is the biggest success story of european history. one should welcome the emphasis put by the rapporteur on regional cooperation mechanisms. the recent polish-swedish initiative to set up an eastern dimension to integrate all eastern european states into a meaningful cooperation seems to be especially valuable. however, regional cooperation agreements cannot be used as an excuse for excluding certain states in this area from prospects of future full membership.
in writing. dear colleagues, we cannot close the door to countries wishing to join, when our founding documents state that every european country wishing to join the european union must also be granted membership. the past mergers have been very successful and this trend should continue in any case. you can't take away motivation from someone who wants to join. it's not for us to decide if they want to become truly democratic states. although the 3 copenhagen criteria must be met 100%. as someone from the so-called new europe, i know firsthand how important it is that we had the opportunity to join the european union. how it inspired reform and effort. the union republics of the soviet union themselves should not be deprived of the opportunity to become truly european states governed by the rule of law. i am referring in particular to our immediate neighbours, ukraine and moldova. the credibility of europe and the future of these countries are at stake. it is important to maintain the european course of these countries. the european union must stick to its commitments and continue the enlargement process with consistency. you have to add momentum, not stand still. any talk of absorption is just hypocrisy to fool the naive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of amendment 19 because i strongly believe that inviting the dalai lama to a general affairs council meeting to present his assessment of the situation in tibet, and explain to the 27 foreign affairs ministers the middle-way approach and his concept of genuine autonomy that should be implemented for all tibetans within china, is to be highly recommended.
in writing. for the european union, this year is a time to look in the mirror: are the decisions taken last year bearing fruit? last year, the foundations were laid for environmental and energy action plans to reduce greenhouse gases and combat global warming. there has been talk of a policy of immigration that would unite europe, as recent years have witnessed a huge increase in illegal migration. defence issues have also been addressed: the combined forces of europeans carry out military operations across the world and, since 2004, the creation of eu battle groups, or rapid reaction units, has been dealt with here. president nicolas sarkozy, the new president of the european union, has brought freshness and hope to european politics, giving us the idea of a new mini-agreement, a fresh approach to the new member states. there are many examples. with his dynamism and his head-butting, he could certainly launch or accelerate a number of urgently needed projects. i would therefore like to stress that the country holding the presidency does not take the european cause on its own, although it is entitled to put certain issues on the agenda. in order not to be responsible for the decisions taken at the round table of the council of europe, the presidency must focus on the presidency, which is a thorough job, not a party decorated with empty promises. in particular, i very much hope that the french presidency will be able to inspire hope in europeans through concrete projects.
in writing. – mr president-in-office of the council, at the last european summit in brussels the creation of the mediterranean union was discussed – a significant initiative for the whole mediterranean region and a priority of the french presidency. but i truly hope that, when emphasising the mediterranean union during this presidency, the baltic sea region and the baltic sea strategy will not be neglected. the baltic sea has become basically a european union lake, with eight member states surrounding it since 2004. the baltic sea strategy covers the areas of environment, economics, culture and education and security, providing a sustainable plan for the development of this region. it would give me great pleasure if the french presidency took time to attend to the issues concerning the baltic sea, and the prioritisation of the mediterranean did not mean grabbing the blanket from the baltic sea region. bearing in mind the near future presidency of sweden, it would be reasonable to start addressing the baltic sea strategy to ensure greater coherence between presidencies.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i can only join in the concerns about the discovery of hundreds of graves in jammu and kashmir since 2006, but i am particularly concerned about the armed attack on the respected human rights lawyer, pervez imroz, just 11 days ago in srinagar, and the continuous harassment of numerous human rights activists. i think it is opportune, therefore, to urge the indian government to launch an independent investigation into these graves and as a first step to secure the grave sites so as to preserve the evidence. we also call on the european commission to offer the indian government financial and technical assistance through the stability instrument for such an inquiry, and possibly further measures of conflict resolution in kashmir.
mr president, the beijing olympics have proved, sadly, that authoritarian regimes are not able or willing to comply with olympic ideals of respect for human rights and peace. symbolically the russian authorities preferred to mark the start of the beijing olympics by launching an armed invasion of a neighbouring country. all this happened in the immediate neighbourhood of the future sochi winter olympics. i am convinced that by this unprecedented violation of the territorial integrity of a neighbouring country, and by annexing parts of its territory, the russian federation has lost the moral and political justification to host the 2014 sochi olympics. i call on the international olympics committee to designate in the shortest possible time another city to host these winter olympics.
my dear colleagues! transnistria has recognised the independence of south ossetia and abkhazia. the moldavian separatist transnistria is a frozen conflict in the making. south ossetia, abkhazia, transnistria are the same. for years, russia has refused to withdraw its troops from these regions. the president of moldova has said that transnistria is like a volcano that, like what happened in georgia, could erupt at any moment. russia has confirmed to president voronin that it is interested in an agreement that would recognize transnistria as an autonomous region of moldova. such that, if necessary, as a result of a so-called referendum, transnistria could legally secede from moldova. it is important to bring the partners to the 5+2 negotiating table: we cannot agree if medvedev and voronin decide the conflict bilaterally. as head of the moldovan delegation, i urge you to deal with transnistria proactively. there should be an international peacekeeping force in transnistria, moldova should be offered our enhanced partnership plan and allow moldovans to enter the european union without a visa.
mr president, the international olympic committee (ioc) decided in july 2007 to grant the right to host the 2014 winter olympics to sochi, russia. following the russian aggression against georgia, united states congressmen allyson schwartz and bill shuster made an announcement that, as soon as the us congress returns from its summer vacation, there will be a us congress resolution calling on the ioc to designate a new venue for the 2014 olympic games. it is quite clear that, if the olympic games were to be held in sochi, countries would boycott the event, just as in moscow 1980 following the soviet military invasion of afghanistan. that would strike the olympic movement much harder than selecting a new host for the 2014 olympics now. therefore it is time for the european parliament to act. otherwise we might once again be facing the idea of holding the olympics in an authoritarian and aggressive country that respects neither human rights, civil liberties nor the olympic charter.
today we have already discussed the need to send both international peacekeepers and a civilian mission to georgia. as a member of the south caucasus delegation, i am in favour of this, especially since i drew attention to the urgency of these steps from this speech earlier this year. but history has shaped many of our countries as multinational, including georgia. i'm concerned about the possibility of a black scenario. namely, a few days ago russia recognized abkhazia and south ossetia. as if to continue this, the minister of the people of north ossetia announced the plan of the union of south and north ossetia and this on the basis of russian laws, in other words, the accession of south ossetia to russia. some countries believe that two principles of international law are at odds here: national self-determination and territorial integrity. we know that we have to follow the helsinki final act, but my question to the council is: 'what steps will be taken to prevent the territorial integrity of a sovereign state from being undermined?'
mr president, we are witnessing the collapse of the ‘end of history’ paradigm, but this should also mark the end of the era of wishful thinking, replacing peace through speech with peace through strength and solidarity. russia has placed itself in the category of unstable, unpredictable states. it can no longer be seen as a reliable partner, and clearly does not share our common values. by invading georgia it has challenged the fundamentals of the international security system, trying to replace it with the model of ‘might is right’. everything now depends on eu actions – not just reactions. no ‘business as usual’ entails taking concrete steps, because russia will only understand if we act. i propose the following measures: firstly, a genuine international peacekeeping force – russia cannot play the dual role of peacekeeper and invader; secondly, freezing the pca negotiations; thirdly, putting on hold the nord stream and south stream projects; fourthly, freezing visa facilitation; and, fifthly, cancelling the sochi olympic games. if nothing concrete is done, russia will not only never release georgia from its hold, but will also follow the same pattern elsewhere. the first priority of the democratic community is to set firm limits. today, we have to answer the same moral challenge. if not us, then who? if not now, then when? (applause)
in the spring, during the georgian elections, i met a georgian woman in the city of gori who had been forced to flee abkhazia 15 years earlier. today, he's a fugitive for the second time, in his own country. it was tragic. but the tragedy is that today in this room we have a very different understanding of what happened and that's why i think it's particularly important, among other things, to send an independent commission of inquiry to georgia, an international commission, to find out what really happened. this conflict is not between georgians or ossetians, it did not start on august 8, it is not just a conflict between russia and georgia, it is a conflict of values and it concerns us all.
in writing. – mr president, the russian aggression against georgia has provoked the world public to question the decision of the international olympic committee to grant sochi, russia, the right of hosting the winter olympics in 2014. sochi is located on the coast of the black sea just 20 miles from the border of the russian federation and abkhazia, and therefore in close proximity to a zone of conflict. but there is another aspect that concerns me as well. just as in beijing, people's homes are getting in the way of the construction of olympic facilities. for example the construction in progress is wiping out a whole village called eesti-aiake or "estonian garden" in english, which was founded 120 years ago by 36 estonian families, who migrated to the caucasus region in imperial russia and who were granted lands there. the russian authorities are constructing stands, intended to be used for only 14 days during the olympics, on the location of the oldest part of the village. the compensation that will be paid to the families is said to be lower than the market price of the land. such outrageous actions violate the natural right to property and therefore should be condemned.
in writing. tax fraud is a problem for both the eu and the member states, distorting competition and reducing the revenue base of both the eu and the member states. one reason for the problem is the complexity and outdated nature of the current transitional vat system. the system needs updating. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. the development of a new vat system must certainly take account of the fact that the taxation system will not become more complex and bureaucratic than the existing one. it is certainly important to stress here that the new taxation system must also be piloted before it is implemented at european level to ensure that it works, as this will prevent problems that may arise much later. the modernisation of the transnational availability of information is also an important step in the fight against tax fraud, which would be facilitated by the creation of a pan-european e-taxation information environment. the processing of personal data shall not be without regard to the public interest in the protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons. finally, the term 'tax haven' must also be considered relevant to the problem at hand. i welcome the idea put forward in the report that the eu should make the elimination of tax havens at global level one of its priorities.
in writing. martin schultz is certainly right when he says that the social package could have been stronger. the commission should have presented the package earlier so that we could have dealt with this important issue not when the elections are approaching but before there is time to carefully weigh all the nuances of this important package, and it is important without a doubt. i would like to highlight, among other things, the commission's communication on the european globalisation adjustment fund. although several thousand people were supported from countries such as germany, france, portugal and finland, the 2007 overview shows that a fairly large proportion of the fund has not been used. lithuanian textile workers also received an egf allowance in august. this is a good sign that the new member states may also be able to successfully find support to counter the effects of globalisation. the commission will shortly examine the criteria for awarding the aid. i would like to emphasise that even in small countries like estonia, globalization has forced a few companies to lay off hundreds of people. simplifying the application for egf support would certainly make it possible to simplify the assistance for them as well.
mr president, as one of the authors of the motion for a resolution on the situation in georgia, i voted in favour of amendment 1, inviting the international olympic committee to seriously consider whether its decision to grant the 2014 winter olympic games to sochi is still valid in the light of recent events in the near vicinity of the future olympic venues. it would be very irresponsible if the ioc endangered the lives of the olympic athletes by holding the games in such an unpredictable region. i need not remind you that, on 5 september 1972, 11 olympic athletes were massacred in munich. i was there as a doctor for the soviet olympic team, and i remember the impact of those tragic events on the olympic spirit. such events should never reoccur.
one of the most important topics in this report is, in my view, the issue of 'benchmarks'. when sanctions are imposed, it is always necessary to set benchmarks for them, how and when and under what conditions they are lifted. in the absence of such a rule, the sanctions themselves are absurd. let's take it or leave it. for the first time, a positive action policy mechanism has been established for the sanctions regime, meaning a six-month cycle during which sanctions are not applied and uzbekistan is left with a choice and time to meet the criteria. although the mechanism is positive, the benchmark is that the sanctions will not end until there are significant positive developments in the andijon massacre. this brings me to the next important point raised in the report. this is the creation of an independent group of experts to be set up to increase the effectiveness of sanctions, who would then assess which sanctions to apply and at what time. and one must also take into account the symbolic meaning of sanctions, which i myself experienced in uzbekistan. it's hard to measure. there was little practical meaning there, but despite the visa regime (those officials had left, mostly those who were subjected to it) and the arms embargo (the weapons were not delivered anyway), it had a very strong symbolic meaning. everybody's talking about it, from the cab driver to the minister.
mr president, the european union’s foreign policy has been a pioneer of a positive conditionality model – the ‘method of the carrot’ –implementing it successfully in relations with its candidate countries. unfortunately, rewarding progress in the field of human rights in developing countries has not always proven to be the most effective measure to encourage them to move forward, as new players have emerged in the international arena practising political dumping. china’s policy in africa, for example, does not hold any reference to human rights or democracy. but instead of backing down on the fundamental values of the eu, we should not be afraid of applying the ‘method of the stick’ where necessary to show that, when certain basic requirements are not met, there will also be dire consequences that third parties are wisely advised to avoid.
in writing. – the european union is based on values, such as democracy and respect for human rights. protecting and speaking up for these is the core of any policy made in the european union. human rights have been mainstreamed into the eu’s foreign policy. nevertheless, all too often the eu is not speaking with one voice and lacks the ability to react fast and efficiently on massive violations of human rights. sanctions are part of the human rights policy, yet they are not applied equally. the eu should not turn a blind eye and make exceptions for big countries, such as russia and china, which is in fact trading human rights for economic benefits. economic relations with third countries have to be carefully considered in cases of continuing human rights violations, which have to be met with sanctions and the freezing of further negotiations. therefore, i strongly call upon the commission and the council to react with determination, unity and strength. furthermore, i call on the eu to apply the human rights policy equally and to set sanctions on every country where massive human rights violations are proven.
mr president, the condemnation of the use of contraceptives and the prevention of legal abortion has been one of the most malicious crimes committed against humanity, as some contraceptives also provide protection against sexually-transmitted diseases such as hiv. they also improve maternal health when combined with sufficient sex education. legal abortion prevents unwanted children from being condemned to poverty, hunger and disease. by denying women the freedom of choice, we are receding from the fulfilment of the millennium development goals. in order to improve maternal health in developing countries, the european union must condemn the us global gag rule, as well as the ban on the use of contraceptives advocated by some churches.
i thank the rapporteur and hope that this report will be a success this time. estonia, my home country, is also a maritime country and i am pleased that this report focuses on addressing the bottlenecks in the port sector in several member states. ports are of great importance for economic and social development, for the competitiveness of the european union as a whole, but we can only compete in the global marketplace if we are above average in terms of innovation and quality. in a maritime state, the maritime sector is an integral part of a complex logistics system, integrated into the country's single economic system. maritime transport is also an important mode of transport for intra-eu trade, and i therefore welcome the initiative to create an intra-community maritime transport area without frontiers. i believe that in the european union, intra-community short sea shipping should not be placed at a disadvantage compared with other modes of transport, nor should goods declared in the community be subject to customs supervision in europe again. it is necessary to lay down uniform rules governing the operation of ports in the european union. however, the european union must do much more to support its ports against unfair competition from ports in third countries. the keyword for ports is 'maritime safety', which requires improvement and cooperation between maritime rescue coordination centres certainly needs to be improved. i hope that all the steps outlined in the report, which i will not be able to discuss in the course of my two minutes, will contribute to the competitiveness of european union maritime transport and lead to the development of a european port policy.
in writing. − mr president, having supported the amendments concerning the condemnation of the us global gag rule and of the ban on the use of contraceptives advocated by some churches, i voted in favour of the resolution. but i was shocked to learn that some of my colleagues, who can usually be taken seriously, have prioritized the statements of the pope over the health and well-being of the people in developing countries.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, commissioner, it is really urgent to demonstrate to the iranian regime our strong condemnation of the increased number of executions there and also our support for democratic change in that country. but we are also concerned about the fate of almost 4 000 members of the iranian opposition who are residing in camp ashraf in iraq. we strongly call, therefore, on the iraqi and also the us authorities not to forcibly return to iran any iranian refugees, but instead to find a long-term satisfactory solution for those located in camp ashraf who have the status of protected persons under the fourth geneva convention.
mr president, i am really against joining, in recital k, my oral amendment, which is to replace ‘ex-members’ with ‘associates’, with deletion of the mention of the geneva convention. the commissioner has just confirmed that the fourth geneva convention applies as well to the inhabitants of ashraf, so i would like to ask you to support the first part of this amendment, which is the same as mr hutchinson’s, but to oppose deletion of the mention of the geneva convention.
rapporteur. − mr president, eu membership has almost doubled since the beginning of 2004. ensuring the convergence of standards for the protection of democracy and basic freedoms towards the highest existing levels is one of the main post-enlargement challenges. in this context, the report welcomes all initiatives aimed at safeguarding democracy and points out that the media remains an influential political tool which should not be treated solely on economic terms. the report recognises the decision of the european commission to entrust determining the reliable and impartial indicators of media pluralism to a consortium of three european universities. in addition, this report stresses the need to institute the monitoring and implementation systems based on the indicators thus determined. the report also recognises the ongoing efforts of publishers’ and journalists’ representatives to create a charter of media freedom. in addition, the report underscores the need for social and legal guarantees for journalists and editors. the report advocates the adoption by the multinational enterprises of the best practice for editorial and journalistic freedom in each country where they operate. it expresses concern over lower standards being applied in the member states which acceded to the eu in 2004 and 2007. the development and acceptance of new technologies has led to the emergence of new media channels and new kinds of content. the emergence of new media has brought more dynamism and diversity into the media landscape. the report encourages responsible use of new channels. weblogs: i understand and i do not understand the concern of webloggers. my entrance into cyberspace has created rapid reaction among a lot of bloggers. i shall make it clear now that nobody is interested in regulating the internet. that is why i support, as rapporteur, the compromise that has reached common understanding in the pse, alde and verts/ale groups and which underlines the following: ‘encourages an open discussion on all issues relating to the status of weblogs’ – full stop. we remain here. the report acknowledges the challenges posed to the print outlets by the migration of the advertising revenues to the internet, but points out that the new commercial media landscape is dominated by the established public and private media content providers. it also takes the standpoint that the concentration of media ownership is approaching levels where media pluralism is not granted by the forces of the free market, especially in the new member states. the report recognises that the public service media needs a sizable and stable market share to fulfil its mission. it points out that, whereas in certain markets the public service media is a leading market participant, it mostly suffers from inadequate funding and political pressure. the report recognises the need to increase media literacy in the eu, recommends the inclusion of media literacy among the nine basic competences and supports the development of the european core curriculum for media literacy. once again, the report welcomes all initiatives aimed at safeguarding democracy and points out that the media remains an influential political tool, which should not be treated solely on economic terms. freedom of expression is the key of my report – for that i really stand.
in writing. – the report of marianne mikko reflects very well on the general tendencies in the media in the european union, pointing out an extremely important aspect in paragraph 35, regarding public broadcasting services. in order to maintain sufficient media pluralism and diversity, public broadcasting corporations must also provide programmes that might not gain the highest ratings or advertising revenue. i have always been convinced that if a public service broadcaster becomes extremely popular among the people and profitable for the state, it need not be a public broadcaster at all. the purpose of the public broadcaster is also to cater for the various needs and interests of the people, who are not always the unexacting audience of private broadcasters that tend to go with the mainstream. the public service broadcasters across the european union should not neglect high-quality niche programmes in order to compete with privately owned broadcasters. one of the principles of providing public goods is solidarity. public broadcasting services should operate in solidarity with viewers of more demanding or fastidious tastes as well.
mr president, i naturally support the reports but i find discussing the european union’s combat against terrorism rather strange at this point in time as the presidency has seriously undermined this combat by fixing the people’s mojahedin of iran to the eu blacklist of terrorist organisations, against the ruling of the european court of justice, the european court of first instance and the proscribed organisations appeal commission of the united kingdom. it has emerged that the previous decision to blacklist the pmoi has allegedly been the result of shady diplomatic bargaining incited by petty national interests. the european union cannot continue deviating from the rule of law and therefore i call on my colleagues to join the newly-formed european committee for justice under the leadership of vice-president alejo vidal-quadras calling for the immediate removal of the pmoi from the blacklist.
my dear colleagues. personal data is sensitive information and must be handled with extreme caution. data protection cannot be hollow, it must be effective. the amendments tabled by the rapporteurs to the proposal for a council framework decision on the protection of personal data processed in the framework of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters are an excellent way of achieving this objective. i also congratulate the rapporteur on her work. the framework decision has a significant impact on one of the fundamental rights of citizens of the european union: the right to privacy. since the european parliament has always strongly supported a strong and protective framework decision that would allow for a high level of data protection, the council should give serious consideration to parliament's amendments. the exchange of personal data must be governed by clearly defined rules; it must be subject to robust safeguards ensuring respect for fundamental human rights. it is essential to pay particular attention to the actual purpose of the personal data. the processing of personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical convictions, trade union membership, health status or sexual orientation shall be regulated by the pharmacist. it cannot be limited to a clause that it is permissible if it is essential and the safeguards are sufficiently guaranteed it is too general, exceptional cases must be specified. access to and transmission of personal data must be lawful and security must be fully guaranteed. to do this, we need a watertight, specific and protective framework decision and a control system. our mission is to stand up for the fundamental rights of our citizens while fighting terrorism. let's do both with extreme caution.
in writing. − turbulent global finance has put the governments of the member states under serious strain. the estonian government, for example, has been struggling for months to draft a balanced budget for the year 2009. although i supported thijs berman’s report, i have serious doubts about reaching the targeted official development assistance level in the next couple of years. as the eu has no command of coercive measures regarding development aid, it would be naive to expect that the member states would significantly increase their contribution when experiencing financial uncertainty.
in writing. – the year 2009 is a crucial year, as the european elections, renewal of the commission and, hopefully, also the ratification of the lisbon treaty will take place. the main political priority of the first half of 2009 will remain the ratification process of the lisbon treaty. unity and better functioning mechanisms are crucial to remaining a strong player in the global arena. more than ever we need better coherence in our energy policy, with a perspective of enhancing energy independence. solidarity between member states and the search for alternative energy resources should become eu priorities. reaching the goals set in the lisbon treaty has to get a new boost. innovation, entrepreneurship and promoting a science-based economy are the key aspects to bear in mind. the completion of the internal market has to be finalized. more efficient tools for smes have to be provided to further support their role as the main creators of jobs. a new approach must be established on how to bring eu closer to citizens. this approach has to be a two-way road. we as politicians are not only leaders but first of all servants and attentive listeners to our citizens.
mr president, this relationship between the two biggest democracies of the world is a very special one. india is emerging as an economic and political giant, but it is a shared commitment to the rule of law, multicultural democracy, global stability and the fight against terrorism that unites us. i hope that the ninth summit will bring us closer to reaching a free-trade agreement and that the still unresolved issues such as services, competition and intellectual property rights can be settled. i too express my concern about the recent wave of attacks on christians in orissa. it is not the first time this has happened. the last wave of mob violence occurred last december. it is very important – and i asked the council and the commission to bring this to the attention of their indian counterparts – that indian authorities take all possible steps to compensate for the damaged property, provide full protection for people who do not dare to return to their villages, help them to restore their churches and bring the perpetrators to justice. at the same time, we understand the complexities of this huge country and i would like to express my deep sympathy with the victims of numerous terrorist attacks which have hit india. we stand together with our indian friends for common values, for the rule of law and the unconditional respect for human life, values so forcefully embodied by mahatma ghandi.
in writing. it is important that, in the coming winter, member state governments do all they can to support those who may be overwhelmed by rising energy prices. in estonia, too, a price increase of up to 30-40 percent is forecast. i am particularly concerned about the impact of rising energy prices on low-income, poor and disadvantaged groups. i agree 100% that member states must take adequate measures to ensure affordable energy prices for services. including targeted income support and incentives and incentives in the residential sector to improve the energy efficiency of homes. i am also fully in favour of member states drawing up action plans to combat 'energy poverty'. first, we need to define energy poverty. this definition helps you to focus on a goal. we have to get everyone out of energy poverty! unlike in the uk, for example, the word "energy poverty" is quite foreign to estonia. another example of the euro vocabulary being used unintentionally. but there's a very interesting idea behind it that lawmakers need to get to grips with. targeted grants to the elderly, large families and disabled people, such as winter fuel payments and cold weather payments in the uk, play an important role. i think that these measures are a great example for others to follow. saving is talked about a lot, but little is done, even though it's the quickest way to make a difference. the better insulated and energy-efficient our homes are, the less we have to spend on maintaining the radiator. the total would be high, because buildings consume 40% of primary energy in, for example, estonia. but you can't rely on the enterprise of every refrigerator here.
the honourable commissioner, the good colleagues. the number of overweight and obese people has been reported repeatedly, but experts estimate that another 1.3 million will be added next year. this is one of the people from my home country of estonia. it's terrible. there are many factors that contribute to poor nutrition and obesity, but the cost, availability, and awareness of food must be considered. in 16 eu countries, it has been considered possible to keep vat on foodstuffs well below the overall rate a commendable decision. the report welcomes the proposal for this measure, namely to reduce vat on fruit and vegetables from 5% to below 5%. after all, the who report on health lists the consumption of too few fruits and vegetables as one of the seven health risks. in this context, it would be appreciated to start offering fruit in schools and the support of the european union would also be needed. it is precisely for this purpose that the measure is applicable in all 27 member states. it's not much in a minute, but i'd like to say a few words about advertising and media. and what we need is the help and understanding of both of them to promote carrots, not pepsi-cola, to promote what stereotypes, what body images -- it's a very important part of raising awareness. let me conclude by thanking the commission and the rapporteur for their efforts.
mr president, i would to thank everybody who contributed to this extremely important and high-profile report on media pluralism and concentration in the european union. the report is about safeguarding democracy. we have tried to include everything that strengthens democracy in this report. that is why you should try to focus and think twice before you vote. what are you in favour of, and what are you opposing? we are sending this message to our citizens today. please think. (applause)
madam president, the council also has to draw conclusions from the invasion of georgia. in order to prevent such aggressions happening again, the eu has to make sure that the idea that ‘might makes right’ will prove absolutely disadvantageous for the invader. by invading a sovereign state, russia, as a security council member, has shattered not just the regional but the international security and stability paradigm. if there is no setting of limits, the way will be open to further demonstrations of force against ukraine, moldova and others. what we need today is a more efficient eastern partnership and a strong and democratic georgia. unfortunately, even before russia has met its commitments, some socialist leaders visiting moscow have declared that the eu and russia need each other more than ever and that russia and the eu have to cooperate in filling the possible security gap left by the weakening usa. there seems to be a dangerous confusion about who our real allies are and who is really interested in weakening and splitting europe. finally, the eu has to react to the ongoing distribution of russian passports abroad. this means artificially creating new russian citizens to be defended according to medvedev doctrine, so preparing new international hotbeds of crisis. our reaction should be to deny visas for those new citizens, especially for the leaders of the new russian protectorates. finally, we should rapidly provide georgians and ukrainians with more generous visa facilitation than russian citizens have been granted.
in writing. dear colleagues, belarus has been repeatedly described as 'the last dictatorship in the heart of europe' and it still is today. the parliamentary elections on september 28 were a litmus test. it's very nice that president lukashenko released political prisoners before the elections. but it is also clear that the opposition will not be able to enter parliament in such a short time. the osce gave a fair assessment of the elections. one important aspect of the strengthening of civil society in belarus is the european union's visa policy. civil society must be fully involved in the process of democratisation in belarus. to be an active citizen, people need to have a broader worldview. a chance to get out of a totalitarian state. belarusians need a visa to travel. obtaining a schengen visa is complicated and time-consuming. we need to simplify the visa system. you can't punish the people. if we make it difficult for people to move, we will limit the belarusians' share of our values and culture in the european union. we don't want to punish belarusian civil society. it's high time for a change. the people of belarus deserve it. and it's up to us europeans to help them.
in writing. – recent elections held in belarus can be described as anything but free and fair. stalin’s notorious principle that it is not important who receives the votes, but who counts the votes, is still very much respected in belarus. the votes were mostly counted out of the field of view of the observers, thus the osce election observation misson, for example, was compelled not to recognise the elections. lukashenka’s hypocrisy in his recent courting of the west is unmistakable. he has made promises on the nature of the elections that he has been unable to keep – the rights of numerous election observers were violated by depriving them of their right to oversee the election procedures fully. we should not disregard this severe breach from the ideals of democratic elections. no european union sanctions should be lifted before an evident regime transition has commenced.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this debate comes at a particularly opportune time. the commission announced in its communication of october 2007 on the european union's integrated maritime policy that it would present a review of the european union's interests in the arctic by the end of 2008. it is now finalising this review in the form of a communication entitled 'the european union and the arctic region', which we plan to adopt in mid-november. the arctic is becoming increasingly important on the international stage and the european union is inextricably linked to this region. the union's policies in areas such as climate change, energy, transport and fisheries have a direct impact on the arctic. three member states have territories in the arctic. the marine and terrestrial areas of this region are vulnerable and are essential components of the terrestrial environmental system. the effects of climate change are manifesting themselves more rapidly and on a larger scale in the arctic region than in the rest of the world. since the beginning of this century, our external action in favour of the far north has been successfully guided by the policy of the northern dimension. the arctic, including the barents sea region, was recognised as a priority area in the 2006 northern dimension guidance document, which was adopted in consultation with russia, norway and iceland. however, the policy of the northern dimension has always been more focused on europe and in particular on the north-west of russia. the forthcoming comprehensive communication will propose that the european union play a more dynamic and coordinated role in the arctic and that its action be structured around three main objectives: protecting and preserving the arctic in cooperation with its inhabitants; promoting the sustainable use of the arctic's resources; and promoting the sustainable use of the arctic's resources. to improve multilateral governance of the arctic. climate change is the consequence of a global process and the european union must continue to play a leading role in combating it. the communication will give the highest priority to the protection and preservation of the environment, which should not necessarily preclude the sustainable use of arctic resources. the commission plans to increase, in close cooperation with the countries of the region, our contribution to the arctic and more particularly to its governance, as reflected in the ilulissat declaration of the five arctic coastal states in may 2008. it seems that the conditions are not present for a binding legal regime specifically designed for this region. we will have to build on the extensive legal base of the united nations convention on the law of the sea and other international conventions. nevertheless, we clearly see the need to implement and enforce the existing legal system fully, while extending and adapting it to new realities. our aim is to help establish a system based on cooperation which will guarantee sustainability as well as freedom and equity in terms of access. we recognise the need for improved coordination and for more strategic guidance. the commission will put forward a series of proposals in this respect, including the extension of the 'arctic' window of its policy on the northern dimension. we wanted the communication to stimulate in-depth reflection on the various issues addressed, laying the foundations for a future arctic policy of the european union. the communication will encourage a more coordinated approach to the arctic and will be followed by more detailed reflection on the different themes. it could thus form the basis of an overall european union policy towards the region. a strengthened policy in this area will undoubtedly provide a basis for future discussions on the future of the arctic by allowing a strong contribution from the european union from the outset.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i would like to thank mrs wallis for initiating this debate and resolution. there are several reasons to do it. first, the arctic region still lacks multilateral norms and regulations; in particular maritime traffic is not regulated by international safety rules and this is going to pose serious risks in the near future. second, the region has entered a dramatic climate change we need to react to. third, the arctic is of growing economic interest as it may contain about one fifth of the world’s still undiscovered oil and gas reserves. in fact competition has started between different interested countries about securing access and control of these resources. the planting of the russian flag below the north pole last year is one signal of this interest. therefore we call on the commission to come forward with a communication on the arctic region, proposing subjects and working procedures. especially we look forward to the commission putting the arctic regions’ energy and security policy on its agenda. the eu has to form its own arctic policies, involving two countries very close to us: iceland and norway. the eu northern dimension partially covers arctic problems but it has become clear that a comprehensive eu arctic policy is needed to address the wide and important context of arctic problems. finally we suggest that the commission should start international negotiations to finally achieve an international treaty for the protection of the arctic.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is a global community. all people must have equal opportunities to participate fully in society, including work and economic activity, and to enjoy a standard of living and well-being that is considered normal in the society in which they live. employment is undoubtedly the best way to avoid poverty and social exclusion. the curious thing is that today there are 20 million working people in poverty in the eu, most of whom are women. i believe that in addition to tackling the problems of poverty and social exclusion of disadvantaged groups, much more attention needs to be paid in the eu to the poverty of working people, especially women. the eu's labour market activation policy needs to be reviewed: to provide people with more social protection, we need to leapfrog towards regular, remunerative and legally secure employment. i also believe that the remuneration paid to workers in the member states (including the minimum wage) must be fair and ensure their livelihood, avoiding the risk of falling into poverty. i welcome the eu target set out in the report of a minimum wage of at least 60% of the average wage (national, sectoral) in the future and the fact that a timetable for achieving this has also been agreed between member states. only a balance between flexibility and protection will improve employment and social inclusion.
in writing. social inclusion and child poverty are issues that we need to take seriously and the commission's initiative in this regard is welcome here. but the question is, are our intentions ambitious enough? there are a number of important steps that member states need to take. reducing social exclusion requires first that people have sufficient income to survive. let us admit that in most eu countries where it is established, the minimum wage does not guarantee a normal standard of living. certainly, one part of reducing social exclusion is social assistance. in the context of the current economic recession, we are already hearing openly in estonia, where there were lively discussions on balancing the budget, about compromises on child benefits. universal child support is something that values all children and as such has a great symbolic value in addition to practical help. as a former minister for population and current president of the child protection union, i am aware of these issues and will do everything to ensure that this support is not lost as expensive and ineffective. in addition to the survival assistance, targeted support is important for groups at risk such as the elderly, single parents, large families and people with disabilities. such grants should cover, for example, additional costs related to personal assistance, medical and social assistance. the uk's use of cold weather allowances for older people to keep rooms warm and to combat energy poverty is a great example that other member states, including estonia, should follow.
member of the commission. − mr president, i am taking this debate on behalf of my colleague, commissioner vassiliou. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr peterle, for this report, and members of parliament for their interest in the white paper putting forward an eu health strategy. i am delighted that parliament supports the health objectives and principles of the white paper. the commission welcomes this report, and fully agrees with the key issues it raises, in particular the need to address health inequalities, to focus on promoting health by encouraging healthy lifestyles and to help prevent diseases. i am pleased to say that these issues are at the very top of the commission’s health agenda. health inequalities between different regions in the eu and between different socioeconomic groups are a growing concern, and the commission plans to bring forward action later next year to help bridge the health gap across the eu. the commission fully shares your views about the need to promote healthy lifestyles, in particular as regards nutrition. we all agree that this requires action targeted at citizens of all ages, in schools, the workplace and other settings. this is a key component of the health strategy, and initiatives will be developed in the next couple of years. in the mean time, we are actively pursuing our strategies on nutrition, overweight and obesity and on alcohol-related harm. the commission also fully agrees with parliament about the need to step up our efforts to prevent diseases. in addition to encouraging healthy lifestyles, we share your views about the need to support effective screening to detect diseases, in particular cancer, at an early stage, and to foster greater exchange of best practice. the commission is actively supporting the implementation of the council recommendation on cancer screening and has recently updated the eu guidelines on breast and cervical cancer. but we need to do more to help health systems fight cancer. i am pleased to announce that the commission plans to launch an eu platform for action on cancer next year to help member states exchange knowledge and good practice in the prevention and treatment of cancer. the commission welcomes parliament’s emphasis on the role that a healthy workforce plays in delivering the lisbon agenda. now let me comment on a few additional issues that the report raises. parliament calls for the establishment of european centres of reference. these would be leading centres of expertise in particular conditions, such as rare diseases, that require a combination of expertise and resources that many member states do not have. the commission will build on the principles agreed between member states for such centres and will continue work to promote such centres in the framework of the future directive on patients’ rights in cross-border health care. parliament also underlines the need for effective measures to tackle the rising problem of resistance to antibiotics. the commission shares this concern and is actively supporting member states in implementing the council recommendation on anti-microbial resistance. we will present a report on this next year. finally, the commission endorses the views expressed about the need for health and social policies to work closely together. mainstreaming health concerns in other policies is indeed a key principle of our strategy, and we are currently exploring synergies on a wide range of issues between these two policy areas. in conclusion, the commission and parliament share the same vision about the key health issues that we need to address. the time has now come to take forward work on the strategy and translate words into action. the commission will work closely with parliament, the council, the member states and civil society in transforming the strategy objectives into better health for all across the european union. so i thank you for your support and i look forward to hearing your views.
the committee on women's rights and gender equality is the draftsman of the opinion. - the president, the commissioner, my dear colleagues. health is one of the most precious assets any human can have. the european union's health strategy for the 21st century must ensure a high level of health protection for all across europe on a common basis. unfortunately, today's healthcare systems in the member states are markedly different and there is no common and effective healthcare for citizens across europe. i welcome the development of the european commission's white paper on a health strategy, but i find as does the rapporteur that the white paper does not set out specific quantifiable and measurable objectives, the achievement of which could and should produce tangible results. health requires effective policy support in all areas and at all levels. i therefore call on the commission to integrate health issues into all european community policies in the future, and to include gender mainstreaming in the strengthening of health policy. i thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and you for your attention.
in writing. – i would like to draw attention to the worrying tendency in europe, where more and more young people suffer from mental problems. many young people in europe suffer from stress; indicators of substance abuse, especially alcohol and drugs, are increasing. these aspects, separately and combined, can lead to serious mental disorders. recent tragedies in finland indicate that more than ever member states need to pay attention to young people in providing measures for preventing bad health, especially mental health. a holistic and proactive approach to dealing with the roots of mental problems and illnesses is crucial. a safe living environment (preventing domestic violence and substance abuse), reducing stress-causing factors in school and at home, prevention and awareness-raising should be of the highest priority. no school can replace a caring family where parents see their responsibility in teaching their children the basics of social and ethical values. it is important to include all actors in society to achieve the set goals. various voluntary and youth organisations in particular are crucial providers of a safe environment in leisure-time activities and of non-formal education/awareness-raising on mental-health-related issues. therefore i call for a holistic and proactive approach including guaranteeing better mental health and therefore a better future for young people.
mr president, last week amnesty international reported on a possible attempt on the life of the russian lawyer and human rights defender karina moskalenko. small balls of mercury were found in her car. mrs moskalenko has won about 30 cases for russian citizens against the russian state in the court of human rights in strasbourg, and it was here in strasbourg that an attempt to poison her took place. the next day she was to represent the family of the murdered anna politkovskaya at a court hearing in moscow. it now seems that, after the sequence of murders of independent journalists in russia, it is the turn of independent lawyers. so it is urgent for us to show solidarity in the strongest possible way, in order to defend those people who help those who cannot help themselves.
mr. president, my fellow citizens. in estonia, we say: 'better late than never', and it is positive that we are finally adopting the directive on rented work. rental work is a job that is becoming increasingly important, and it is therefore very important to regulate it. on the other hand, the directive is also important for those countries which do not yet have access to the labour markets of all the member states of the european union and whose workers are exploited primarily for unfair purposes, in violation of their equal rights. today we know that the protection of temporary agency workers varies greatly from one member state to another. there are member states where it is not available at all. i therefore believe that the draft directive as it stands today will help to ensure that, in future, temporary agency workers receive at least a minimum level of basic protection across europe, which will prevent discrimination against workers who use this form of work compared with other forms of work. i hope we will adopt the directive and i would hope that we will not give it a very long implementation period.
in writing. with the internet becoming a part of our daily lives, children today are at an increased risk of being harassed online for sexual purposes, such as online dating, bullying, etc. according to a recently published eu kids online report, in my own country, estonia, 68% of children have access to the internet in their home environment. it is one of the highest in europe, along with denmark, belgium, sweden and the united kingdom. high availability should not automatically mean a higher risk of exposure to bullying or objectionable material, but estonia does rank with the netherlands, the uk, and other countries in the high availability and increased risk group of countries studied. there are many similarities across europe - one in two children reveals information about themselves, four in 10 are exposed to pornographic material, one in three are exposed to violent content, many receive unwanted sexual comments, and a whopping nine per cent meet someone they have met online in real life. between 15 and 20 percent of young europeans have been bullied online. in estonia, however, the figure is even higher, at a whopping 31 percent (ages 6-14). i think we need to pay more attention to these kinds of questions. this is particularly true in member states such as estonia, where children are increasingly using the internet in their daily lives. of course, there are benefits to using the internet. but we must also pay increasing attention to reducing the risks involved.
în scris. – mr president, the report of roberta angelilli is very much focused on pornography on the internet that is accessible for children, yet there is another matter of even graver concern. it is violence. when pornographic material can be just disturbing then viewing very vivid images of violence against others or even self-harm is something that really might provoke youths for thoughtless acts. just think of all the discrimination and aggression against minority youngsters or school shootings. only recently two school shootings occurred in finland – very close to my constituency, estonia. it was noted that the shooter uploaded violent material on the internet just before committing the horrid act. that material was accessible for other troubled youngsters and we have got no idea, what might follow next. i find that the european union ought to take serious steps to stop such advocating for violence, while not limiting people’s freedom of expression. every human life must be treasured and when our youths need help or guidance, it should be provided. we cannot afford ruining or wasting the lives of the youngsters, who are the future of europe.
in writing. the free movement of workers is one of the four freedoms of the internal market. if we want to speed up european integration, it is essential to reduce the fears of western workers about eastern labour, without closing down the labour markets. unfortunately, the desire of many western trade union organisations to reopen markets to the new member states is not helping to unite europe either. it is an economically incompetent, employee-disinformation, distrustful path that does not stem from the spirit of international solidarity. labour mobility is one solution to overcome structural labour shortages in certain sectors. there are places that desperately need a bus driver, and there are places that lack good doctors. you can't put a price on that kind of mobility. since equal treatment is one of the fundamental principles of the european union, the free movement of workers should take place under equal conditions. the widespread principle that foreign workers are paid less than their own nationals is not consistent with this principle. i agree with the principle outlined in the report equal treatment and equal pay for equal work. the minimum wage must be guaranteed for posted workers within the european union. the protection mechanisms for workers in different regions of europe have historically been different. unfortunately, it's also a time for rehearsal. if the workers now remain only to defend their national heritage, they have voluntarily given up the game. it is very difficult to explain to a non-member of the new member state the impossibility of change, given that estonia, for example, was able to implement the entire european union acquis in less than six years. the protection of workers is a noble enough cause to strive for consensus.
in writing. the own-initiative report under discussion is unbalanced and tends to favour protectionism. no one is questioning the right to strike, but it must not go too far and undermine the competitiveness of the service provider. today we have been discussing specific judgments of the court of justice, namely the lavali, ruffert and viking line cases. i would point out that none of those judgments concerns the content of any collective agreements which may be concluded in the member states or the right to conclude such agreements. the right to take collective action falls within the scope of the ec treaty and must therefore be justified by an important public interest and be proportionate.
mr president, the european parliament is the only eu institution that is elected directly by the citizens of the eu. it has also been called the conscience of europe. this conscience has been burdened throughout the years with the conflicts provoked by russia. remember the war in chechnya; remember ukraine; trucks queuing up for weeks on finnish, estonian and latvian borders; the frozen conflict in transnistria; cyber attacks on estonia; a ban on polish meat. on top of all that now comes russia’s aggression against georgia. i am worried that the eu is displaying only timid reactions, tiptoeing around instead of discussing sanctions. we are only encouraging russia to engage in more irresponsible behaviour. i am convinced that a clear conscience in relation to russia is not a luxury that the european union cannot afford.
it is clear that we cannot talk about restoring or improving relations with russia without mutual trust, and that trust cannot be built without the peace plan being fully implemented. i would look at relations with moscow in two ways. firstly, at the national level, where i share the view that talking about the relevant issues is more sensible than cutting off relations. but at the level of the european union, our message is that the union should take account of the wishes and fears of us, the small countries, who have experienced a different history. just as the only message cannot be russia's aggressive foreign policy or human rights violations, so the only behaviour of the union cannot be interests that override the weakest, that is, eastern europeans. i liked what the right-wing french president, nicolas sarkozy, said today: he stressed the need for dialogue instead of counterattack. he recalled that they thought it was pointless to go to moscow, but it stopped the russian troops. of course, we do not need a new cold war, but we do need to defend our european principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity and values-based politics and democracy. i call for a sustainable foreign policy with russia, not a break-up. and it's the duty of mps to de-escalate tensions. we need diplomacy, including people's diplomacy, for example, the very successful festival of russian theatres which just ended in my home country of estonia. but at the same time, i call on european leaders, the presidency countries, the heads of the european parliament's political groups not to forget the fear and alarm that russia continues to create in its neighbours by pursuing its aggressive policy. clearly, there is little trust and respect in eu-russia relations today, thanks to the (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i think the main problem is not russia, but the eu’s personality split – the split between values, temptations and the need to conduct business as usual. the solution is to demonstrate convincingly that the eu is serious about implementing in practice its universal values – it is not about eu values or russian values – and to ensure that such invasions as happened in georgia will never take place in europe again. georgia is part of europe. how should we do that? not by tiptoeing, as mr savi has said, but by taking a clear stand on how to prevent such things happening in future. my question also concerns the donors’ conference. should we ask russia to cover part of the damages... (the president cut off the speaker.)
in writing. - mr president! the current financial crisis has been blamed by many mps on greed. the same old phenomenon has been identified as an important factor in eu-russia relations by mr schöpflin in his article published in the spring. i note that, by the time of the publication of his article, i had reached the same conclusion, given the energy relations of several eu member states in recent years. in the last weeks after the first panic in august the same phenomenon is reflected in the question of georgia. to ease their consciences, a group of politicians managed to convince each other that shakasvili was the main culprit in the conflict. perhaps two years ago, shakasvili also organized the expulsion of georgians from moscow and the call of the pikhva paratroop division to the scene on the eve of the battles. i believe it would be more prudent to see the danger of russia's policy of restoring spheres of influence and to respond accordingly.
mr president, i welcome the appointment of baroness ashton as a member of the commission, and i would like to point out that the very fact that she has been awarded a life peerage speaks for her excellent work for the united kingdom. i have a firm belief that she will be as worthy a commissioner as another peer before her. lord cockfield was appointed as the united kingdom commissioner in 1984 by margaret thatcher’s government. he had a distinguished career in brussels, laying the foundation for the single market. baroness ashton would guarantee a place for herself in the history of the european union by giving momentum to the doha negotiations. it is a great challenge, but the successful finalisation of the negotiations would help the developing countries immensely.
i would like to explain why i did not vote for mr anderson's report. although this report was much more balanced than the original, i and many of my eastern european colleagues remained neutral. of course we support the principle of equal treatment, but we saw the danger that under this slogan an attempt was made to prevent the implementation of one of the fundamental freedoms of the european union - the freedom of movement for workers. this is particularly important for eastern europe: our workforce wants to enter the western labour market, even temporarily, to earn a little more, but i think it's also important for the economic development of the european union as a whole. i believe that instead of the change in regulation at eu level that has been requested, more attention should be paid to the implementation of the directive and to regulation in the member states.
in writing.– i welcome the recent signing of the stabilisation and association agreement with bosnia and herzegovina. eu enlargement to the western balkans is another crucial step in uniting europe and ensuring that past escalations of violence will not be repeated in the region. therefore i also urge the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina to pursue the reforms in a consistent and transparent way to ensure fast integration with the eu. i note with concern attempts by some regional politicians to destabilise the country, and call upon eu to demonstrate its political will and commitment towards bosnia and herzegovina to prevent any conflicts based on ethnicity or religion. considering that obtaining a visa for the eu still poses a great problem for the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina, i call upon the commission to continue with the dialogue and to do its utmost to implement the roadmaps with the objective of establishinga visa-free regime with bosnia and herzegovina as soon as possible. i suggest that the member states reduce the bureaucratic obstacles to a minimum for applying for a visa and set up a simplified system for granting visasto students and to civil society actors.
madam president, artificial, man-made famines were used systematically as a tool by communist totalitarian regimes. seventy-five years ago, stalin decided to uproot the ukrainian national identity and resistance by creating such a famine in the very bread-basket of europe. regions struck by famine were not merely denied assistance. even worse, hundreds of villages were cordoned off by the red army. starving people were denied the most elementary human right – the right to escape from certain death. people who tried to flee were hunted down like wild animals and shot. only today are we reacting to one of the most appalling crimes by the communist dictatorship. an authoritative assessment of such crimes is long overdue. all victims of the crimes against humanity deserve the same status. there cannot be first-class nazi victims or second-class victims of communism just because europe still lacks an integrated approach to all totalitarian regimes and has hesitated to take a concrete stand on crimes that took place in the eastern part of the continent. we have a duty to know what happened under stalin just as well as we know what happened under hitler. we need to extend not only our solidarity to the ukrainian nation and, indeed, to all nations that have suffered under totalitarian crimes, but also to pass a moral verdict. only in this way can we reach the goal of these debates: to guarantee that this monumental, destructive disregard for human lives and dignity will never be repeated in any part of europe. we need an all-european reconciliation, a reconciliation that can result only from truth and justice. our duty is to make sure that the famous ‘never again’ will equally apply for the ukrainian nation.
madam president, i voted for the resolution on holodomor, the great ukrainian famine. the resolution rightly calls it an appalling crime against the ukrainian people and, indeed, against humanity. however, due to the position taken by certain factions, the resolution has avoided the term ‘genocide’,which would be fair and appropriate to be used in this case. the ukrainian parliament and 26 states have defined this crime, which caused the death of at least four million people, as genocide. moreover, recital b of the resolution quotes the un convention on the crime of genocide of 1948,which unequivocally covers the ukrainian case. so i very much hope that the european parliament will soon join the position taken by these states.
on behalf of the ppe-de group.– mr president, in fact we are extremely concerned about the resurgence of violence in the eastern provinces of congo. we therefore call on all participants to return immediately to the peace process to which they committed themselves in january. i would like to make three points. first, the congolese government has to take special responsibility to put an end to the widespread sexual violence against women and girls used as a weapon in this internal warfare. second, international pressure should be put on the governments of both the drc and rwanda to make them restart a constructive dialogue. third, we call on all eu governments to provide special assistance immediately to the population of eastern congo.
on behalf of the pse group good colleagues. we're talking about a very complicated area here today, and i think we're talking about it primarily to emphasize how crazy this situation is, not because we have a very clear picture of how to solve this situation. but i did get a few points. yes, i repeat the forewords, including my good colleague tunne kelami. the most important thing is to support the congolese authorities in finding a political solution to this crisis. violence only breeds new violence and i don't mean to say that men's lives are somehow less valuable or that violence can be used against men, but really, the situation of women and children in the congo is particularly bad and it should be given special attention. an appeal to the international community, to the un security council to step up aid, an appeal to the council and the commission to provide medical assistance - especially to this highest risk group - and certainly also the specific assistance of the member states is important.
on behalf of the alde group. the honourable commissioner, the president, colleagues. the rapporteur, mrs bauer, said that poverty has a woman's face. i too must reiterate that as far back as 1957, article 119 of the treaty of rome included the principle that women and men should receive equal pay for equal work. today, in 2008, women in the european union earn on average 15 percent less than men, and in my home country of estonia, 25 percent less. the gender pay gap has a significant impact on women's position in economic and social life both during and after active working life. it also increases the risk of women falling into poverty, especially in single-parent families. the pay gap after the end of active working life often becomes the difference between the pensions of women and men. a single female pensioner is often at risk of poverty. i therefore welcome the report's suggestion that the european commission should submit a legislative proposal by 31 december 2009 to revise existing legislation on the principles of equal pay for men and women. we have passed too many laws for too long, and the results are not encouraging. as time has shown, we cannot solve this problem with european union legislation alone. a key outcome of the problem is the emphasis on the issue in policy agendas. only an effective policy mix, which includes better and more effective legislation as well as the definition of the responsible party, will allow this problem to be tackled in a positive way. i thank the rapporteur for bringing out the very right aspects in the report and i thank you for listening to me.
in writing. in the white paper on health issues related to nutrition, obesity and obesity, which we also approved this year by the european parliament, experts point out that today 22 million children in europe are overweight, 5 million are obese. experts estimate that another 1.3 million will be added next year. the who report on health lists low fruit and vegetable consumption as one of the seven health risks. the ep also proposed to the european commission that schools should start offering fruit and vegetables and that the european commission should allocate the necessary funds from the eu budget. today, the european commission has prepared a support measure for our initiative, which will allow eu schools to offer fruit and vegetables to children aged 6 to 10 as early as the 2009/2010 school year, similar to the current school milk scheme. this is certainly an investment in the future that will help to prevent or reduce the health costs of unhealthy diets. i hope that the european commission will take parliament's proposals into account this time too and increase the fruit and vegetable programme from the current eur 90 million to eur 500 million, so that it can be offered to children on all school days and to a wider target group of children. thank you for your attention!
i would like to make a statement on the vote. and i am referring to the vote on the request for the waiver of the immunity of a member of parliament by massimo d'alemante, in which i abstained because, as a lawyer, i have certain reservations about the competence of our parliament in this matter and i have no right or desire to interfere in italian internal politics.
in writing. − having decided to vote against the report by niels busk, i declare my full support and sympathy for the topic debated – to provide more fruits for the schoolchildren in europe. increased obesity among young people is an ominous problem. however, i support first and foremost the principle of subsidiarity. i am absolutely convinced that member states and their governments should be trusted in taking good care for their young generation. it is not the business of the eu to regulate concrete problems like the current one. the initiative in question is undoubtedly based upon good intentions. but starting to solve such problems with all-european regulations is neglecting the role and responsibility of the very actors in question: parents, schools, local governments and national governments. i am sure that they all have the same concerns and motivation to address the need to increase fruit consumption in their schools.
mr president, the european union blue card is a much-appreciated initiative from the position of the developing countries. as the eu blue card will be issued by the member states, one might speculate that a member state may far too often find, after examination of its labour market, that it is not in a situation which allows the facilitation of foreign labour; or that a member state’s public policy poses some obstacles to the full implementation of the eu blue card policy. i am afraid that some member states may undermine the purpose of the eu blue card. the eu blue card has not been created only to satisfy the labour demand of member states, but also to start ‘brain circulation’. in a way it is a supportive measure to the eu development cooperation policy, as the blue card workers eventually return to their countries of origin with the experience that is vital for progress.
in writing. dear colleagues, the blue card will alleviate some of the employment and immigration problems. the blue card is a tool to combat illegal immigration. by facilitating and simplifying legal immigration, europe is not only fighting the shortage of specialists, but also human trafficking and illegal immigration. i support the idea that member states should have the right to decide how many cards they wish to issue each year. at the same time, we should not become protectionist because of the economic crisis. we must be prepared to accept highly qualified labour from third countries. in the face of economic pressure, we must not close the door to europe to talented third-country nationals. we need a unified approach to stay competitive internationally. the 27 different licensing systems in the european union make it difficult for young people to find work in europe. a common system could be one of the solutions to overcome the current crisis. not to mention the competitiveness of the european economy today and especially in the future.
in writing. two problems that bother me about the blue card. from a european perspective, bringing brains to the table is great. compared to the united states or australia or canada, we have a much smaller number of immigrant professionals. but unfortunately, this kind of 'mediation' is contrary to our second principle, which is that migration issues must be addressed globally and that economic progress in third countries must be promoted in order to reduce migration, especially illegal migration. whether we like to admit it or not, the very 'brains' we dream of here are needed in third countries to promote this life there. from a european perspective, operating in a highly competitive environment, it would naturally be good to have more specialists. moreover, as research shows, their integration into a new society is a much easier and faster process. and this is not a secondary question. the second problem i see is that, in the face of economic difficulties and rising unemployment, negative attitudes towards migrants are increasing in europe. and i'm also afraid of internal migration to the eu. i hope, however, that the far right will not gain momentum and that the restrictions currently in force in some member states will be lifted in the near future. the eu as a whole would benefit.
in writing. – we should take into account that cluster munitions are one of the most damaging weapons, which do not see a difference between military and civilian targets. today, in the 21st century, making war can no longer be led by the idea of ravaging or by the idea of maximum damage. targeted attacks with a minimum effect on civilians can be the only way to act in a war situation. therefore using cluster munitions has to be clearly rejected and forbidden. i call upon the european union and its member states first of all to urge other states in the world to sign this convention on 3 december this year. furthermore i call upon the eu and its member states to commit ourselves to pursuing the implementation of this convention efficiently and as fast as possible. i also call upon the eu and its member states not only to tackle the technical parts of the convention, but to seriously dedicate themselves to helping in the areas where cluster munitions have been used, to assist the societies concerned and to provide effective and tailored help to the civilians affected by the harm caused by cluster munitions.
madam president, the european union is an ageing society. there are many people in the eu who choose to advance professionally instead of concentrating on their family lives, until it is far too late for them to have children. having recently become a grandfather, i am a fierce advocate of an estonian family planning measure that allows one of the parents to stay at home for 18 months after the birth of their child, guaranteeing social benefits more or less equal to the parent’s salary before his or her leave – the parental allowance. it is my strong opinion that, unless we want to burden our children with unreasonably high taxes, we ought to start implementing a similar approach across the eu. in estonia, for example, such a policy has brought the nation out of a seemingly interminable decrease in population.
madam president, i have come to realise that the hiv-positive people are sometimes treated like lepers, not knowing that with early diagnosis and care they may be active members of society for a number of years before aids develops and the disease starts seriously affecting their lives. such prejudice is a sign of ignorance. it is extremely important to promote support and understanding towards the hiv-infected. as a result people would have more courage to have their viral infection diagnosed at an early stage instead of opting for a nuisance that might pose a threat to others. it is vital that hiv-positive people can be open about their condition with no fear of being discriminated against, so we can increase awareness and tolerance in society of hiv and aids.
in writing. – i would like to remind the council and also the commission that the eu is based on the basic values, such as democracy, rule of law and respect for human rights. therefore i condemn strongly the spirit in which the recent eu-russia summit in nice was held. it is not acceptable that business as usual will start again with the argument that there is no alternative. mainstreaming human rights in its external policies and respect for the rule of law are the cornerstones in any relations with third countries. russia cannot be an exception, in particular in the light of the fact that it has not fulfilled all the conditions laid down in the agreement after the aggression towards georgia. i am concerned that the eu will lose respect as a serious and independent actor in international affairs. furthermore, eu hesitancy to set clear limits on such a pre-planned violation of the norms of international conduct is likely to encourage similar aggression from the russian side in the future. therefore i strongly call on the commission and council to seriously reconsider their decision to continue with business as usual.
in writing. for years, experts on food rights at the united nations, the world bank, and the international monetary fund have warned the world of a famine. while the wealthy west burns food, over 850 million people worldwide are hungry. every five seconds, a child under the age of ten dies from malnutrition. rapidly rising food prices affect the 2.1 billion people in the world who struggle to survive on less than $2 a day. the ever-expanding production of biofuels has contributed to the rise in food prices that has hit the world. the world market for food has skyrocketed as more and more crops are grown to produce biofuel oil (for example, it takes 200 kilograms of corn to produce 50 liters of fuel, enough to feed a child in zambia or mexico for a year). in addition, droughts or floods have affected many countries, causing a marked decline in crop yields. i believe that the european union must also make a stronger contribution to the achievement of the un millennium development goal: to halve world hunger by 2015. i welcome the european commission's initiative to allocate €1 billion to tackling the food crisis, which will allow the eu to continue to provide food aid to meet the basic nutritional needs of disadvantaged populations and to contribute to increasing the productive capacity of developing countries. although there is still a relatively small amount of motor fuel produced from table-fed fruits in europe, we should not make europe's food for people a victim of 'green energy'. rather, scientific research into the production of motor fuels from alternative sources should be supported. this would help to avoid food price inflation and famine, and also to prevent global warming.
in writing. – i welcome the timely report on the proposal for a regulation establishing a facility for rapid response to soaring food prices in developing countries. this year the world has been shaken by various crises that have taken a terrible toll on the poorest populations of the world. it has been proposed that one billion euros are to be spent to improve their situation over the period from 2008 to 2009, which is quite a notable sum in the european union budget. but i would like to remind you that most european union humanitarian and development aid is not directed by the commission but by the member states. if the member states fulfilled their commitments to the millennium development goals, the commission would not have to take such action. the rapporteur has rightfully pointed out that one cannot desire more effective common policies without providing more budgetary resources, yet the member states seem rather reluctant to do that. in my opinion, the member states ought to start pooling their resources under the auspices of the commission to exercise a truly effective common humanitarian and development policy.
mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. for many years, the member states and the european union institutions have been discussing and seeking a common position on the working time directive. something is accomplished, something is lacking. if we reach a common position in parliament at the end of the day, it will be our vote that will decide. i can support the directive if the possibility of overtime is maintained. working overtime is not very common in estonia, but i would like to see the possibility for the individual, the worker, to decide for himself whether to work overtime in order to earn more income, to develop his career prospects or for other personal reasons. the directive prohibits overtime, but in fact means that in certain cases the worker still has to work overtime, but now illegally, that is, without extra pay and without legal protection. none of us want that. secondly, it is important for estonia as a small country that the rest time is compensated within a reasonable time after working overtime. the requirement to provide compensatory rest periods immediately may cause difficulties in the management of work, especially in sectors where there is a shortage of labour. third, waking hours are working hours. i thank the french presidency for adopting the directive and for helping to shape the common position.
the honourable member for the council, the commissioner, my dear colleagues. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the constructive approach he has taken in reviewing the directive. the recasting of the directive in question also alleviated certain legal questions in our options. it seems that with the help of the rapporteur, these questions have been resolved for today. however, the revision of the european works council directive has been an important issue for both companies and trade unions for a long time. it is worth noting that the social partners reached an agreement this summer. i am sure that this agreement will also help us to conclude our discussions in parliament in a positive way. without calling into question the need for recasting at this time and in this context, i nevertheless consider it necessary to consider the updated and modernised version of the directive in the future, that is to say, during the mandate of the next european parliament. but today, as a representative of a small country, i cannot agree with the commission's proposal that the number of employees in the group be made dependent on the membership of the special committee. such a requirement may lead to a situation where a member state is left without representation of its interests in the negotiations.
in writing. i am really pleased that we have reached the adoption of the toy safety directive. there is a pressing need to update the existing safety regulations. the old directive has indeed been hampered by changing circumstances and does not provide adequate protection. i would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues from the socialist group for making a strong contribution to ensuring a safe environment for our children. it is essential that food and toys are properly separated so that there is no risk of children accidentally putting something in their mouths and choking. we must do everything possible to prevent accidents which are inevitable and which we must hear from time to time. and of course, it's important that the toys are free of carcinogens. it goes without saying. and i think we've done a good job of removing that threat. since product design is not always the culprit and toys can become dangerous if the product process is defective, it is important that monitoring is carried out both in factories, through control operations on the market, and at customs points where toys arrive from the eu's trading partners. i personally hope that the controls will be intensified now before christmas. as the majority of toys on eu markets are chinese products, the role of third countries, and china in particular, is important. in this context, i would like to welcome the latest efforts in this area and the memorandum of understanding between the european commission and chinese officials. by improving the exchange of information and enhancing cooperation, we can make the toys that make our stores safer.
mr president, i admire the french presidency for its determined leadership. this is also needed to counter the aspirations of a militant iranian regime which has been terrorising its own nation for years and is exporting terrorism massively – and, i am afraid, in the future, also weapons of mass destruction. ironically, the eu council continues to keep the only serious opposition force on the list of presumed terrorist organisations. that is the pmoi, whose goal is to bring about a secular and democratic iran by non-violent means. on 4 december 2008, the european court of justice delivered its third verdict declaring invalid and unjustified the european council’s july decision to keep the pmoi on that list. i count on the statesmanship of the french presidency to respect the verdicts of the european judiciary and to give the iranian opposition a chance to bring about real change.
in writing. since 1994, community rules have ensured that all member states have a deposit guarantee scheme in case of bank failure and have fixed a minimum deposit guarantee of eur 20 000. unfortunately, the average deposit per eu citizen is already €30,000, which shows the general need to increase the minimum deposit guarantee. the decision of the european council of 7 october 2008 whereby member states decided, as a result of the global financial crisis, to guarantee, on an exceptional basis, deposits from individuals for a period of one year to a minimum of eur 50 000 is to be welcomed. the current initiative by the european commission will help to translate this into eu legislation, which will help to maintain the confidence of eu depositors in european financial markets. the commission's proposals for bringing the minimum deposit guarantee in the eu to €100,000 by the end of 2009 are welcome news for depositors! however, the commission should certainly take account of the real possibilities of member states when raising the deposit guarantee threshold in order to avoid a situation where raising the deposit guarantee threshold becomes a race to the bottom, which could lead to a situation where poorer member states lack the means to guarantee the provision and the same simple depositors could later be the victims. as eu financial markets are highly interconnected, i support the rapporteur and also call on the commission and the council to improve the commitment to cross-border cooperation and to plan more concrete measures to help ensure better cooperation between member states in crisis situations, if necessary.
i would like to make a point of justifying my vote on the working time directive. in particular, my voting machine was wrong on amendments nos 34 and 35. i voted for their proposals, but the machine was red. i still believe that all watch time, including any time off duty, is working time. why do i think that? it is not up to the doctor or the firefighter (who is on duty at the invitation of an employer who specifically requires services) whether the patient needs a doctor or whether a fire has broken out. it's not up to these people. they are at work, it is working time, and i ask you to correct my voting record on the points mentioned in the minutes.
in writing. − i voted against this directive to eliminate the opt-outs. i firmly believe first of all that every person should be free to choose their own working time. i also believe that such a regulation is a violation of the subsidiarity principle, under which the labour law falls. every state should be in charge of regulating the working time in their respective country. after the vote i would now ask if the approval of this directive by the european parliament now means that the next step that will be taken is to regulate whether, and how much, european citizens can have free time.
in writing. − i very much resent the idea that people’s freedom to work would be restricted to a 48-hour working week. neither the european union nor a member state should set limits on anyone who is willing to work extra hours or hold several part-time positions and they should assume that the employer has not coerced the employee to do so. therefore, i voted against the progressive abolition of the right of workers to opt out from the maximum 48-hour working week. by doing so we would deny people their right to fulfil their potential and contradict the lisbon strategy. we are not improving europe’s competitiveness by trying to introduce legislation that reduces the flexibility of our labour force. the european union will become an innovative and learning economy that can overcome the low productivity and stagnation of economic growth not by setting boundaries but by promoting the liberalisation of the labour market.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me first say that i understand that our colleague, rama yade, has experienced difficulty getting here. yesterday, i myself had to wait five hours for my flight to strasbourg. maybe she is having the same difficulties, so bear with her – this is force majeure, after all. (interjection from the floor: ‘travelling circus!’) well, five hours is not normal. i am just saying that i do not know exactly what has happened to her, but that was what happened to me, and i was very glad that i did not have an appointment yesterday, because the same thing could have happened to me too. i just wanted to express my solidarity on this point. second, this human rights dialogue and the report on human rights constitute one of our basic major concerns. i would just like to show you the new eu report. when i started as commissioner we had separate reports from the council and the commission and now i am very happy to show you that the council and the commission have drawn up this report together. the foreword is by bernard kouchner, javier solana and myself. i think it is very important to show that here we are really working together. as i said in my introductory remarks, we are trying very hard to go forward on the path of promoting human rights. however, we also know that the glass can be half full or half empty. a lot remains to be done, and it was very moving to see so many defenders of human rights here this morning. i spoke of elena bonner, but i could have spoken of any of them, and of course the video of hu jia’s wife was very moving: she has shown great courage. i would like to reply to some of the questions. i cannot answer every question on behalf of the commission, but i shall go into as much detail as i can. first, concerning the death penalty, let me say that i have taken up this issue very forcefully. i am totally against the death penalty, and throughout this year we have given massive support in the un for the resolution on a moratorium in more countries. but, yes, the problem is still there: many executions are still being carried out by a small number – iran on the one hand, unfortunately china, and there are many others. we have to go on fighting against that by raising it in every dialogue. it is most important that we do that: every person who is executed is one too many. let me say in this context that we were all working against the execution of wo weihan. sadly he was executed on the very day of the eu human rights dialogue with china. this was a terrible example of not listening to each other. second, let me say to mr agnoletto that human rights clauses are indeed very important. at this very moment member states and the commission are currently undertaking a wide-ranging review of the eu’s policy on standard political clauses in external agreements in general, in order to strike the right balance between key, ‘untouchable’ principles of the european union on the one hand, and on the other hand the need for a certain flexibility to negotiate on various parts, because we need to try and achieve agreements. this review is ongoing. it would be a little premature for me to comment on the outcome at this stage because we are not yet at an end result, but the use of the human rights clause is one issue that is being carefully considered. but political clauses in all political agreements, and in trade and sectoral agreements of different kinds, are there and they have to be there. my next point concerns the human rights council. mrs andrikienė, i agree that there could be many improvements and, therefore, we will have to insist on having special rapporteurs and perhaps also country resolutions; i think this could help. i also find it very positive that all countries are scrutinised every four years and that there is also involvement by civil society. i must say that, up to now, we have seen that countries have been quite seriously prepared. that is something positive, and the discussion in depth is there and should continue. we all know that things are not perfect, but we can go on and make further improvements. let me say a word on china and human rights. i am always, as commissioner responsible for relations with china among other countries, very open to building a strong relationship with china based on mutual respect. however, i also have to tell you that i am concerned by what i perceive as a certain toughening of the chinese position on human rights, as seen by the execution of wo weihan on the day of the human rights dialogue. this has been confirmed by what we have heard today and in recent days, such as the suppression of demonstrations in beijing on the 60th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights – there was a presidency statement concerning that; the blocking of foreign websites – for instance the bbc website; and a very negative report by the united nations committee on torture three weeks ago. however, i would also like to take up the words of zeng jinyan, hu jia’s wife, this morning, who said that china is moving in great steps towards an open and democratic society. i think this movement is going on. there are many other things, much has been done for instance over the last years by china, for example on labour rights. it is important that there has been some progress, but many other problems persist, particularly concerning implementation. sometimes, even when things are written – as we have heard today – many of them still have to be implemented. i therefore reiterate that we stand ready, for instance, to provide expertise on further legislative reforms. as president pöttering said, china is a great country. we have many common interests and need to work together, but i think that we, the european union, should not take hasty decisions. we have to reflect on the recent negative signals sent by china on human rights that are damaging our mutual trust. i think that it is now for china to send some positive signals to rebuild this trust. as regards guantánamo, we have called repeatedly in the many debates held here, in which i also participated, for the closure of guantánamo. naturally we also welcome president-elect barack obama’s statement that he will take steps to close the detention centre quickly. we are willing to work with the us administration to find ways to deal with the practical issues which will arise when guantánamo is closed, such as the resettlement of prisoners in third countries. for instance, the european union has recently expressed its concerns regarding secret detention, and we hope that the president-elect will then address this issue and member states will be able to answer. i cannot speak for the member states as such. on the situation in the middle east, particularly in gaza, i very much regret the return to violence in recent days; the five months of calm achieved by the truce were unfortunately too short, but they were very welcome. it has been very difficult to watch the return of violence. we have condemned the recent rocket attacks from gaza but we have at the same time condemned the closing of the crossings. i myself asked the israeli ambassador to come to my office. i clearly expressed my concerns about the question in gaza. we could not give the fuel that we normally fund, we could not enable unrwa to do what they are normally doing. the day before yesterday i was in new york, and we spoke with ban ki-moon, the un secretary-general, on that subject. president of the council kouchner and i wrote a letter to the israeli authorities in order to get funding going. we are very much monitoring the situation; unfortunately it is not at all easy, and in all our dialogues and consultations we always mention these things. i would now like to say something on the coherence that has been mentioned between external and internal policies. yes, i think it is true. this is a point that we have to take. this has been taken up with jacques barrot. he has tried to go forward on the question of migration in a way which pays much more attention to human rights. i think this builds up our credibility, but a lot is also within member states’ competence, that means it is not that easy. i greet state secretary, mrs rama yade. i can only say that human rights dialogues are reciprocal: that means we also tackle human rights issues in the european union, and we have jls experts with the different member states. there is also a un commissioner for human rights envisaging creating an office in brussels, so we are trying to enhance the coherence between internal and external policies. i shall stop here. i am sorry i cannot say anything on colonisation. that is a matter for the member states. you know it very well. (interjection by marios matsakis)i am sorry, but it is not within the competence of the commission to enter into this question.
president of the council. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to be representing the french presidency of the council of the european union to report on the progress made in recent months in the field of human rights. i would like to emphasize, as you have pointed out, the important role of the guidelines as a guide for the european union's action on the ground. as we commemorate the 20th anniversary of the united nations declaration on human rights defenders this year, it should be remembered that the european union has been particularly active and has increased its support for them, both through public statements and actions. the european union has also updated its own guidelines on this issue to strengthen its support for the men and women who fight every day to make the universality of human rights a reality. to complete the existing themes, we have this year drawn up a draft of guidelines on violence against women and discrimination against them. i am glad that the members of the european parliament are satisfied with this. these guidelines were adopted by the council on 8 december. this was one of the priorities of the french presidency of the union. in the same spirit, i would also like to welcome the adoption by the council of the union of new documents on the implementation of un security council resolutions 1325 and 1820, which will enable foreign, security and defence policy operations to tackle the problem of sexual violence in armed conflict, but also to strengthen the active participation of women in the reconstruction of post-conflict societies. the 2008 report by the union on the action and achievements of the european union also deals with the fight against the death penalty. for example, a transregional but eu-initiated resolution calling for a universal moratorium on the death penalty was adopted by the un general assembly in december 2007. and this success has just been extended by the adoption, by a comfortable majority, of a new resolution, essentially a follow-up resolution, on the same subject, at the 63rd session of the general assembly which is currently being held. the european union also conducts some 30 human rights dialogues and consultations with third countries, such as china, the central asian states and the african union, and new dialogues have been launched in the last six months. the union report also details the particularly active role of the european union in the relevant international human rights fora, whether in the third committee of the united nations general assembly or the human rights council. the european union has shown its responsiveness on the issues of darfur, burma and the food crisis, but much remains to be done to strengthen its credibility and effectiveness. i know that your committee on foreign affairs adopted, at the beginning of december, the draft report by mrs andrikienė, which calls for the strengthening of the human rights council and in particular of the role of the european union within it. i can assure you that the council shares this view. in the same way, we must be particularly careful that the human rights council and other multilateral bodies do not become trojan horses of notions that undermine the universality of human rights. the european union, which is committed to the follow-up process to the 2001 durban conference on racism, will be extremely careful that this process does not lead to a reopening of texts already negotiated or adopted, or to the recognition of concepts such as defamation of religions, to the detriment of freedom of expression. the european union will be uncompromising on this point. there is another point i would like to raise, and that is the fight against impunity. as you know, this year marks the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the rome statute of the international criminal court. it is therefore important that, in the name of european values, we reaffirm our commitment to the fight against impunity, because there can be no peace without justice. the european union is making this clear by providing political and financial support to the international criminal court, the ad hoc tribunals and the icc. the european union has, for example, carried out awareness-raising campaigns with third countries to ensure that they adhere to the rome statute, negotiated the inclusion of clauses requiring accession to the rome statute in agreements with third countries, and adopted statements recalling the obligation of the government of sudan to cooperate fully with the international criminal court. i would like to end by raising the question of the decriminalisation of homosexuality. tomorrow, i will go to new york to bring this project that many european nations have supported, which is a call for the universal decriminalization of homosexuality. i would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that there are still 90 countries in the world which still criminalize homosexuality, and 6 of them still have the death penalty. this means that men and women are not able to live their sexual identity freely, without risking prison or going to court. that is why we can be proud of this initiative that norway took in 2006 and, tomorrow in new york, i will therefore be representing us to finalise this text, counting on our support and hoping that we have gone further than two years ago. we shall then see whether as many states as possible support this initiative. before we continue our debate, i would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, madam president, commissioner, that i am sorry to be late. my plane took off later than i was supposed to, which explains my delay. i am deeply sorry, but i think that the continuation of our discussions will enable us to exchange with even greater intensity.
in writing. – mainstreaming human rights has been the core issue in last years. i welcome including also the esdp into this process. truly, it is crucial that human rights will be taken into account in every eu action. nevertheless, there is a need to emphasize that mainstreaming human rights in relations with third countries should apply to every eu partner without exception. i can refer to one of the latest cases where human rights were included in the trade agreement with montenegro. at the same time your report underlines that systematic and grave violations of human rights are continuing on day to day basis in china, russia, iran and other countries, yet these facts are really not taken into account while developing economic relations with such states. it is unacceptable that same rules are being applied differently on different cases. therefore i strongly urge the council and the commission to mainstream human rights in all issues negotiated with china, russia, iran and others. sadly, we have to conclude that the human rights dialogue is not taken seriously for example by the russian side. i call on the eu institutions to be demanding and consistent in representing and defending the core values of the union everywhere.
mr president, i very much welcome the idea of the commission preparing an action plan on e-justice. i was quite surprised to learn that such an initiative had not yet been introduced. i would like to thank my colleague diana wallis for tackling this pressing issue in a very befitting manner. rapid technological development has provided us with new efficient tools that we should not hesitate to use. alas, it has also presented us with new challenges, including e-crimes such as unauthorised monitoring, fraud, cyber warfare and many more. it is high time for the european union to launch legislation on the definition, investigation, and penalisation of e-crime. e-crime crosses national borders and should therefore be addressed at supranational level. i expect the commission to take a legislative initiative on this matter very promptly.
author. − madam president, this debate is long overdue. we continue to quote the word ‘interdependence’. that interdependence does not only relate to energy and trade. it also concerns values, justice, human dignity and truth. these are values to which russia committed itself when it became a member of the council of europe. this debate should remind us of our shared responsibility for the alarming regression in the field of democracy and human rights in russia. on 3 december 2008, 17 russian human rights groups sent a joint statement to the eu. europe’s reaction has not been adequate, they tell us, to what is taking place in russia and with russia’s relations with neighbouring states like ukraine and georgia. the eu has failed to hold moscow to the same standards it insists on holding other partners to. it is precisely that failure, they conclude, that has allowed the russian authorities to crudely violate human rights and international law. yesterday, elena bonner delivered to us the essence of andrei sakharov’s message: do what you have to do; do what your conscience tells you to do. should we not do this, we risk sharing responsibility for gassing justice and human rights in our neighbourhood, while making pragmatic attempts to secure energy supplies for ourselves. can we make a difference? all those people who have experienced the brutality and seeming omnipotence of soviet totalitarianism can assure you that we can make a difference if we value our own values seriously. the russian people deserve to enjoy the same values and justice we do.
