rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to start by emphasising what my report, which is being debated today, is essentially about. while the report is nominally about taxation, the real issue at stake here is the proper functioning of the internal market of the eu. the global economy is developing in a way that puts an increasing amount of pressure on europe to maintain its competitiveness, a fact that has been underlined and widely agreed upon in various instances, notably in the lisbon strategy and its revisions. we must be proactive in rising to the challenge and i believe that a fully-functioning single market is the first priority in achieving this. in addition to the freedom of movement of goods, people and services, this implies, crucially, a level playing field for european companies to establish business in any location in europe as if it were a single country, a home market – a genuine home market – where decisions are based according to a real economic advantage, not a distorted one created by red tape. obstacles to this freedom do not only lead to suboptimal economic choices but also prevent european businesses from expanding. the fact that some such obstacles still remain is regrettable, as a europe-wide home market is a stepping stone to growth for european businesses and a precondition for creating more european world leaders. cross-border consolidation of losses – the subject of this report – is a step towards such a working home market. currently, in this respect, the tax treatment of a group operating within a single member state is heavily preferential compared to a cross-border situation. within a single member state a company can usually offset losses incurred by its branches and subsidiaries in the taxation of the parent company. however, in the case of branches and subsidiaries in other member states, the national legislation varies considerably. in most cases, if consolidation of losses for tax purposes within the same group is possible, it is nevertheless granted with considerable and varying delays. this discrepancy has grave consequences for the proper functioning of the internal market. it distorts investment decisions, constituting a barrier to entering some markets while tending to unfairly favour the large markets where losses can more easily be absorbed. it particularly hampers the smes’ capacity to expand, as they frequently incur start-up losses that they cannot immediately absorb – even the time factor is very relevant to smes. the existence of differing member state legislation obviously also increases compliance costs, ill afforded by smes and conducive to tax engineering with larger companies. finally, delays in loss relief are understandably costly and burdensome to all european companies. there is a considerable cost burden involved when capital that is legitimately recoverable is tied up, often for years, because the current national loss relief legislation will not allow consolidation without delays. the report promotes a remedy to this by promoting the possibility to offset losses in the same tax year, which would transfer the unreasonable time burden away from the company and to the public sector. it would also level the playing field, at the same time lowering companies’ compliance costs. it would also mean that the tax domain is one where there is still work to be done to make the most of the internal market. this does not imply harmonising tax rates, rather that tax competition is a healthy feature of the european economy. however, it does mean legislating to facilitate cross-border business, to establish a level playing field where investments are based on undistorted economic benefits. i therefore welcome the commission’s activities in this area in promoting cross-border loss relief measures. i would like to see parliament support this urgently needed legislation, and i am grateful for the messages of support we have received during the process. i think that parliament’s opinion on the question will also be very timely because the european court of justice has called for political guidance on the issue as well. i would further like to encourage the commission to push ahead with the cctb as a longer-term solution, which i hope will also be supported by this house in this report. however, the cctb is a long-term project, the realisation of which lies far in the future. in the mean time, cross-border laws, relief and consolidation of losses are urgently needed as an intermediate remedy to some serious problems encountered within the functioning of the internal market.
rapporteur. − mr president, i will be very brief. i am of course happy to note that most of the groups are going to support the report tomorrow in the vote. my group has suggested abstaining with regard to amendments 7 and 8. i think that it is in line with the commission’s recommendations as well that 7 and 8 will probably be adopted and that means that we have a very large majority backing the report tomorrow. i also would like to remember a little bit the past: how difficult it was before we accepted the first company taxation directives – a parent-subsidiary directive and an interest and royalties directive in the 1990s – to speak about these items. but they are now there after serious discussion, and i still believe that we can have all the practical things, like anti-abusive measures, that we can improve the parent-subsidiary directive and that we can improve the workings of the transfer pricing forum, and such initiatives are very much needed. but, in the end, we need a very large solution and ccctb. at this time it is the best available option and we must take it seriously. i hope that it will be done during this european parliament term, before the 2009 elections. something must be done before the 2009 elections and we cannot afford to wait for member states to come up with their ratifications and referendums. we must act now and before the time is up for this parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr stockmann, for his thorough preparation of this report. but i would like to draw attention to one more point from the point of view of a country with a sparsely populated and long distance population. in finland, airports form a single network, where, as a general rule, flat-rate pricing is applied. the scheme has also guaranteed reasonable fares at airports in remote areas with low traffic. air connections are vital for these regions. amendments nos 9 and 16 take account of the existence of an airport network but treat it in a way that is unreasonable for small airports. i hope that parliament will take account of the different circumstances in the member states and will amend the directive in a way that ensures that the national airport network can be maintained, developed and financed on a uniform basis.
mr president, i think we have managed to get quite a good result in the recent negotiations. what we have not managed to improve is simplicity. i think that now there is far too much information for an ordinary consumer in europe. whenever the council members and member states request more derogations from the standard information, it makes this whole directive more complex. i think that standard information really should be standard. it should be an eu level playing field. every time that we in parliament or member states in the council say that we should have different adaptive rules by the member states we make this issue more complex. i totally agree with the commission’s objective. probably the compromise negotiations are headed in the right direction, but something should be done about the simplicity issue before this directive gets into the books and reaches consumers.
in writing. – parliament’s vote on this very important dossier means are now one step closer to fully implementing the four freedoms. this directive will bring more rights and transparency to consumers when taking a consumer credit. comparing credit conditions across borders and choosing the best offer will now become much easier than before. after five years of preparations, the directive will apply to all unsecured loans between eur 200 and eur 75 000. i want to point out that it is important to set the lower threshold at eur 200, since loans do not often exceed eur 500, especially in the new member states. the consumer will benefit not least from all contractual information, a common method for the calculation of the annual percentage rate and a 14 day withdrawal period. balanced laws like this help us to achieve the approval of the citizens for the european union.
in writing. – consumer credits are an essential pillar of the internal market. first of all, i think this directive is a first step and a good example of how the eu delivers concrete results, even in such a controversial issue. second, in my opinion in the longer term further harmonisation is needed once we have gathered experience on the working of this directive so as to make it easier for consumers to shop across borders and to give full legal certainty to businesses on their obligations when offering these credits in other member states. third, i want to thank all the people involved for their perseverance in this process, which has lasted for years.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank all those who have spoken for also acknowledging that we are, the commission and parliament, for the first time in europe, even before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, jointly implementing a genuine horizontal european policy in all fields for the defence and promotion of children's rights, a political achievement which was not on the european agenda until two years ago and therefore also a response to those who see the need for concrete results: europe is moving in this direction. i very much liked what mr mcmillan said: one of the first criteria for assessing the level of a state, the level of civilization of a country, is how that country treats its youngest children, the children, and the member states of the european union and all of us europeans have the ambition to be leaders in the world on the treatment and opportunities we offer to children. many issues have been raised and some are already in the proposal i had put forward and in the recommendations that mr angelilli very appropriately made, but other points i believe will have to be developed in the coming months. let us take 2008 as a year to take this european strategy further. the family, the role of the family, mr gál, mr sinnot, have rightly pointed out that many of the problems we face stem from a role of the family which has expired or which is not what it should be. we dealt with this, you remember, last year in the context of violent video games, where a statistical survey in europe showed that only 20% of parents interviewed are interested in how their children use the internet and therefore come into contact with these tools or use video games. 80% of the parents surveyed do not know what kind of computer games or what kind of internet sites their children are visiting. this is an example of why the family, as has been said, is the first place where children's rights are nurtured. then there is the issue of child labour, which has been raised by mr catania and others. you will recall that in the proposal i have made for a severe sanction against employers who exploit the illegal labour of regular immigrants there is a particular aggravating factor and this aggravating factor is precisely the exploitation of a migrant child, who is at the same time vulnerable because he is a migrant, exploited because he works underground and is particularly vulnerable because a child should not work but should go to school; the commission has already proposed a directive on the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to carcinogens. the issue of unaccompanied migrant children: this is an important issue and we are discussing it in order to finance targeted projects, because we have discovered some very tragic situations, not only those you remember, but also, for example, in the canary islands, the spanish government has submitted some very worrying cases to us, which of course we have to take care of, of children arriving en masse and all of them unaccompanied because their parents simply send them on their own. this is a shocking fact in itself. european legislation against violence against children must be strengthened, and mr segelström certainly mentioned this. there is a very serious issue that concerns me personally. there are rules to ensure that the custody of a child is effective in the event of separation or divorce. in many member states, however, the existing rules are not actually applied, not because governments do not apply them, but because the courts and magistrates are often not very well informed, and there are cases of actual child abduction from one parent to another. in some cases, it is not possible to make decisions effective and this issue in the context of childcare needs to be strengthened. sex tourism is another issue we need to work on: cooperation between public authorities and private parties, travel agencies or credit card companies to help us find out who is buying child pornography on the internet, because it's clear that pedophiles don't buy cash, they buy with credit cards. if there is cooperation, as we are beginning to do, then the problem of sex tourism, for example, can also be reduced and eliminated. a new topic is the right to grow up in a clean environment, the rights of children to the environment. this is a subject on which we will have to concentrate a lot because it is not only a new subject but one which is obvious to each of us. some people have raised the question, mr harkin for example, of the effect of the treaty of lisbon. the lisbon treaty does not introduce a specific legal basis, but gives european political weight to the strategy we are pursuing here today, which has so far been based on a common political will. today the lisbon treaty gives cover to the idea that the strategy for the protection of children is truly european and we are therefore taking a truly extraordinary step forward. in conclusion, we will have to work on this in the coming months and it is clear that this will be an investment that europe is making for its future. it is an investment in young people, an investment in children, but i see a final issue where children can be protagonists of one of the most important policies of the european union: the integration policy of immigrant communities. if we trust the children, the little ones who are in schools, to become ambassadors of integration, for them it is much easier to play together or to study together with children who come from different cultures and histories, we will have given the children a task, as some have said, not as little adults, but as real protagonists or co-actors of an integration policy, which if it does not start from the integration of children in schools will never be a real policy of integration of immigrants who come from other countries.
in writing. one of the most fundamental and supportive structures of the common european foundation is our duty to protect innocent souls, children. there are few things we can agree on as much as you. it is also necessary to protect children's rights more effectively at community level. the commission's communication on the establishment of a strategy for the protection of children's rights was welcomed. the report by parliament on the strategy is to be welcomed. i would like to raise a few questions from the larger picture. first, the status of families is inextricably linked to children's rights. the family is unquestionably the best environment for a child to live in. the family and the protection of family life are the rights of the child, which are realized when the family is well. the strategy should therefore include measures to promote the well-being of families. the right of the child to both parents should, in principle, be protected. children are exposed early to horror, violence, and sexual entertainment - with devastating consequences. the report's proposal for a uniform classification and labelling system for the sale and distribution of audiovisual content and video games to minors within the eu is valuable. the polluter-pays principle should apply to commercial violent entertainment, since the damage is immense. third, a determined effort should be made to root out child pornography. strengthening cross-border operations to shut down child exploitation websites and improving cooperation between public authorities and the private sector are among the commission's key tasks. unfortunately, children's rights are not immune to the current spirit of value relativism, which means that we must have the courage to say out loud what is not necessarily relative. children's rights and protection are at the heart of human dignity; therefore, the "floating stones" and "the depths of the sea" still need to be reminded.
for the alde group mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr graefe zu baringdorf, for the excellent preparation of this report. he has done a lot of work and has also brought up the shortcomings and problems associated with remote mapping. the commission's approach is to be cautious, to emphasise transparency and to define the scope of the directive precisely. at its best, remote sensing provides rapid information on the state of crops, the amount of harvest and growing conditions. this information can then be used for research, agricultural marketing planning and the management of the common agricultural policy, among other things. however, as the rapporteur points out, there are still many shortcomings in the methods. the situation varies between member states and the data from the member states are not fully comparable. for example, in my home country of finland, the areas of crops covered by snow are often so small that it is not always possible to determine the areas from satellite images. therefore, the amendment to use the information received solely for the assessment of the yield and not for monitoring is appropriate. farmers today are burdened by complex paperwork, constant reporting, and constant monitoring. unintentional errors due to inadequate advice still result in disproportionately severe penalties. as remote sensing methods develop, it would be desirable that they reduce the burdensome bureaucracy that farmers face. but first, more detailed research is needed to ensure that the methods are really reliable and that they treat all farmers equally. the introduction of new methods must also ensure the protection of farmers' privacy and the transparency of the whole process.
mr president, as a finn i am a big fan of ski-jumping, and – to use an allegory – i would say to the prime minister that the task of the slovenian presidency is like the planica hill, the instruments that you have are like elan skis and i hope you have the willpower of primož peterka. i think that this is going to be a successful presidency for three reasons: one, you have prepared extremely well; two – and we heard it in your speech today – you are extremely humble; and three, you are very businesslike. that is a recipe for success. you have three big tasks. if you can pull them off at the end of the presidency, i think you have done it. one, the treaty: if you have got a lot of member states to ratify without problems, you have done a great job; two, the energy package: if you have got some of that done, you have done a great job; and three, if you have succeeded with kosovo, you have done it. i think the slovenian presidency is going to be one of the best ones that we have seen for a long time. good luck!
madam president, just to show that the ppe-de group has a lot of diversity, i completely disagree with the previous speaker and would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on an excellent report. i think this report is very good and i think it is good for three reasons. the first reason is that it expands the powers of europol. it brings it into the community budget, it creates an agency, and it extends its mandate beyond organised crime. i think that is a very important step forward. the second reason i think it is good is because it calls for more flexibility. you do not have to be sherlock holmes to figure out that, if an organisation is established in 1995 and its conventions are amended three times from 2000 to 2003 and those changes enter into force only in the year 2007, the organisation is not working. it is not flexible enough. we need more flexibility and i think that is what this report proposes. there is nothing more conservative in this world than an interior ministry or a police establishment and i think we have seen it with europol. the third point is: i think that this is a good report because it increases supranational and communautaire elements and it decreases intergovernmental elements. it increases judicial scrutiny and democracy – and if there is one area where you have to work together, it is this. the more free movement you have, the more schengen you have, the more international crime you have, the more we need cooperation on a european level and i think this report is a good step in that direction.
madam president, i cannot resist the temptation of answering my two colleagues mr van orden and mr tannock. we are not trying to create some kind of a us fbi type of organisation here, we are simply trying to have police cooperation which works better, which is more effective, which is more transparent, which is more flexible and which simply works. that is what we do not have today, that is what we are trying to do. i do not want to get into the internal uk debate and scaremongering, that we are creating some kind of fbi with some kind of superpowers, with european police coming into your house to arrest you. that is not what we are trying to do. we are trying to get the third pillar cooperation of police to work better. that is all.
madam president, i echo completely the statements made by colleagues, but i want to say something more about the person rather than the situation. there is a saying in finnish that war is not dependent on one man. that might be so, but the war between democracy and extremism might be very dependent on one woman. i think of the former, and now murdered, prime minister of pakistan, mrs benazir bhutto. i had the pleasure of meeting her and working with her and was deeply impressed by how warm, intelligent and brave she was. i am so proud to say that, to me, she was a friend and a political ally. so much has now been said and written about her that you might ask what more can be said. i think that i can share something that you did not, perhaps, know. her last big project for democracy, human rights and women’s rights was the creation of an organisation called muslim women for democracy and human rights. together with other brave women like asma jehangir from pakistan and dr shrin ebadi from iran, she created an organisation to encourage muslim women around the world to stand up for the rights that the koran gives women, according to benazir bhutto, but that had been denied for centuries. she was elected by the world’s leading muslim women democracy activists in may 2007 to be the first chairwoman of this new organisation. benazir bhutto wanted the organisation to comfort muslim women, to give them legal advice and practical help and, above all, help them to form a network of muslim women around the world to build a world of peace, where different religions could live in peace and with respect. she said, ‘i want to build a pakistan where a jew can go to the synagogue, a christian to the church and a muslim to the mosque, all without any fear’. her dream was that the new organisation could help this dream come true all over the world, both in the west and in the muslim world. i think that the best way to honour the memory of this brave sister for democracy is to support the organisation that she created as a sign of hope, even after she is gone.
mr president, may i complement the president-in-office on the start of the slovenian presidency – and of course on the slovenian presidency tie, which is actually quite trendy. my congratulations on that. my question is more broadly on energy and that is, firstly, what is the slovenian position on increasing nuclear inside the borders of europe? secondly, what is the position of the slovenian presidency on increasing nuclear power on the neighbourhood side?
mr president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr polfer, on a very good report. the report deals in depth with the situation in the south caucasus and the possibilities of the european neighbourhood policy in the region. the extension of the european neighbourhood policy to armenia, azerbaijan and georgia is an important step in the union's commitment to the region. but the very title of the report, from promises to deeds, encourages the union to act more actively in this area. at the same time, the enp offers the south caucasus countries the opportunity to cooperate more closely with the union. however, the many challenges facing the region require more effective action by the union and greater responsibility and commitment by the south caucasian countries to this cooperation. one of the main objectives is the peaceful settlement of many regional conflicts. it would bring stability to the region and improve the conditions for its autonomous development. i would like to emphasise the support for civil society and the development of people-to-people contacts in the building of democracy and the rule of law. for example, eu-funded crossborder projects are tools for continuing dialogue and building trust between the parties, but this requires that the countries concerned do not themselves impede programmes and projects that aim to do so. the european union is also committed to the development of a european research area, which will be a key element in the european union's efforts to develop a european research area. the development of a visa system between the south caucasus countries and the eu will also increase trade and economic cooperation, as the committee on international trade has noted.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs lydie polfer, for a very good report. it is time to stop making empty promises and instead take action to actually integrate the south caucasus better into the european union. as the rapporteur for the visa code in this parliament, i would like to draw attention to the issue of free movement and strongly urge both the commission and the member states to work towards making this possible. for the eu's neighbours and the caucasus countries to build democratic societies based on the rule of law and functioning market economies, their citizens must be able to travel to the eu to learn from our experience in this area. that is not the case today. it is well known that the consular services of the eu member states are extremely inadequate in many of the countries of the south caucasus. it lacks both proximity and efficiency. i therefore call on the member states to increase their cooperation. i see two possibilities. one is mentioned in the report we are now discussing, namely the call for the creation of common application centres for eu visas. unfortunately, the road to this is long. i therefore propose an alternative solution, namely that citizens of the countries of the south caucasus concerned, regardless of the purpose of their travel, should have the right to apply for a visa at the nearest eu or schengen consulate.
for the alde group mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the good cooperation and the good report and in particular for highlighting the different treatment of men and women, despite the fact that we do not get much response. the commission representative has certainly made a real personal commitment to this matter, but after hearing your official reply, in which you said that the road map to which you have committed yourselves had been adopted, one could naturally expect an explanation of what has happened. unfortunately, we have to say that during the term of this commission, very little has happened in the field of equality. it's a shame, really. it may not be a matter of such importance that it would bring points to the commissioners or to anyone else, but nevertheless, dear friends, i would like to encourage us all, because we are responsible for the position of the european woman. let me give you an example. in finland, women were given the right to vote as part of the old-fashioned russia in 1905. it was a miracle. looking ahead, i feel that it is not possible that as part of europe, in the different member states of europe, women should receive the same pay and the same treatment in the eu, even though the eu speaks of human rights and is progressive. i think the eu could look back on the decisions of the czarist era and take equally bold decisions on equal pay and equal employment. the tsar dared to give women the right to vote, but the eu dares not do anything to achieve equal pay in the eu member states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his excellent report. but we're about to learn that the devil is in the details. in the case of emissions trading, the price of allowances is also transferred to the price of nuclear and hydropower electricity, which does not require allowances to produce, on the wholesale electricity market in the eu. these windfall profits are not eaten up by the auctioning of allowances, but rather are added to these extra large profits of the electricity companies. the emissions trading system favours the expansion of nuclear power. i hope that the commission has maintained the view expressed by commissioner piebalgs that nuclear power is not a renewable form of energy. it is not possible at this stage to say whether the package presented is balanced between member states. the requirement to increase the share of renewable energy in the eu to an average of 20% may place small countries, where this percentage is already exceeded, at a disadvantage compared with large countries, where it is currently 2 to 6%.
mr president, mr barroso, renewable energy is not just a cost, it is also a process that creates jobs, innovation and competitiveness. this is real. however, the commission has not taken sufficient account of employment, and this is a key problem. what good is it if energy-intensive and clean industry has to move to countries where there are no emission limits? we need to get the other industrialized countries on board, and it is your job to take care of this. in the case of emissions trading and even in the telecommunications sector, as högmark pointed out, those who have already reached the target level are being punished. at the same time, those who fail to meet targets on time and implement joint decisions are overlooked. we can't keep going like this forever. the commission has not taken account of the baseline, the energy dependence of industry, efficiency, the role of the zero-emission sector and so on. these are important factors. but in conclusion, i would say that cost-efficiency is achieved through innovation and that it is not reflected in the budgets of the member states, nor in the commission. it should be seen as a way out of this situation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite some sceptical speeches, it is really time to implement our decisions of march. in dealing with the proposals presented today, both in the council of ministers and in the european parliament, we must bear in mind our own commitments, the most important of which is that we will take care of every detail in deciding whether our objective is to be achieved, namely, that the temperature on the planet does not rise by more than two degrees compared to preindustrial times. this must be the conclusion when we deal with these individual legislative proposals, because it is the only way we can really bring about change. this change, which is important for climate policy, also means a change in our industrial production. obviously, some sectors will suffer, but there are many sectors that will win. i think we should invest in the areas that will win. in this way, europe can take this leadership forward and create jobs in its own territory, while creating a win-win situation together with global solutions. i really hope that we will also demonstrate our strong commitment by our solutions for biofuels, which will send a strong signal and incentive to develop truly sustainable products to replace existing fuels.
for the alde group mr president, the greatest threat to humanity is not the spread of nuclear weapons to new countries. the real problem is the existence of nuclear weapons. the only ethical and sustainable approach to missile defence systems and other new nuclear weapons systems is to give up nuclear weapons. the eu must also commit itself to arms control in new agreements and be active and seek to initiate disarmament. the u.s. missile defense system would lower the threshold for nuclear war. the missile shield designed for poland and the czech republic is based on the assumption that nuclear war can be fought with victory. the missile defense of the united states is fundamentally different from the previous policy of intimidation, since its aim is to prevent one state from retaliating against another. this removes the previous intimidation of nuclear weapons. so the balance of terror is lost. the missile defence system that the united states may install in poland or the czech republic will therefore have a decisive impact on the whole of europe and all its member states. it is therefore important that the eu discusses this issue and addresses the concerns of citizens. we must also ask ourselves whether this will help to improve european security and european defence or whether, on the contrary, this new system will lead to a deterioration of european security.
in writing. opening up postal services to free competition will inevitably mean a deterioration in services, especially in a sparsely populated country like finland. post should be a public service whose financial base must be guaranteed by the transfer of revenue from areas of 'easy' services to areas of 'difficult' services. if the nation is to maintain its unity and its community, it will not privatize the public postal service. the public service must also ensure the level of privacy and postal security required by this service. privatization may lead to unhealthy personnel policies that undermine confidence in the postal service. that is why our group will vote against the privatisation package adopted by the council.
in writing. – the liberalisation of postal services is an important area of the european internal market. throughout the discussion we have had many concerns about universal postal services. i think we can build on the experience of some european postal markets, which are already liberalised. postal services have been secured in these countries at the same time as quality and service has improved through more businesslike operations. at the same time, travelling around in europe i am faced with poor and slow service in many countries that are trying to get as many exceptions as possible from the liberalisation plans. furthermore, this report leaves much space for member states to implement the liberalisation. many concerns that were brought up will thus remain concerns to be dealt with by national authorities. i would like to thank mr ferber for his perseverance while dealing with this very tough process.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the bali climate summit was a success and we can be proud of the eu's role in it. the negotiations on the kyoto protocol have officially begun and all the relevant issues are on the table. none of them were ruled out. the united states has thus failed to limit the forthcoming negotiations, which will certainly be difficult, as my colleagues have said. the most important message europe can send to the world today is our own climate policy. the best way to accelerate a difficult international process is to adopt ambitious laws on emissions trading, renewable energy and energy efficiency. i am glad that the commission last week saw climate protection as a positive economic opportunity, a new industrial revolution. and so it is crucial to our economic future that we remain at the forefront of the development of clean new energy technologies. we must also understand that the real gordon knot in international climate negotiations is justice. the planet cannot be saved unless the big developing countries, like china and india, also limit their emissions. in order to accept this, they must consider the negotiated solution to be fair. we must be prepared to compensate the developing countries in one way or another for the fact that our emissions per capita are, however, many times higher than those of the developing countries.
madam president, media critics have labelled the bali cop as ‘talks with a tan’. however, having attended the last five cop sessions, for me bali was effective. a two-year roadmap was elaborated, providing negotiating tracks for all countries to respond to the climate challenge. of course it is a pity that we have to admit that there is no global binding target yet and we still are lonely riders. but at least there is a theoretical possibility that within two years we will have a wider front than only one quarter of the emitters. not long after the bali results, some hopefuls already raised the question as to whether this now automatically means that the front is wide enough for the 30% reductions, as was agreed in the march summit provided that the eu is not acting alone. the answer, however, is: not quite yet. this is not only for economical but also for environmental reasons. for the eu, it is politically important to take the lead, hoping that the others will follow, but our unilateral effort – which it still is – reduces our competitiveness in global markets giving the advantage to the polluter. this is called carbon leakage, as i have emphasised many times. the global capital will simply move to where there is no cost for emitting co2. a pollution shift is not a pollution cut. a unilateral climate policy hits the energy and employment intensive industries hardest so the polluter-pays principle becomes a polluter-wins or polluter-relocates policy. luckily the commission has understood this risk, as you, commissioner dimas, just very clearly indicated, and i thank you for that. as commissioner verheugen said recently, when describing the dangers of one-sided reductions: ‘we are exporting pollution and importing unemployment. is that not stupid?’ he is right. therefore we must devise a truly global-market-based mechanism and i believe that balancing this triangular dilemma of energy supply, environmental sensitivity and retaining globally competitive industries to employ our workforce is the key priority for a recently published climate package.
mr president, the best result of bali was the launch of international negotiations on a post-kyoto agreement. it was also important that we had reached the final stage, that is copenhagen 2009. the percentage figures in the bali agreement, which the european union has presented, have been questioned here. these are the numbers that the ipcc panel has put out in its own assessments, and the numbers show what kind of emissions reductions we need to achieve in europe and globally to deal with climate change without very high human costs. in less than two years, we must have an agreement that commits the world to not exceed two degrees celsius. it is a matter of taking the initiative, of the european union showing the way, of the developed countries and of our joint efforts to bring the developing countries into the picture. we have to do our own homework right now. we must ensure that the laws proposed by the commission last week are passed with the greatest possible ambition here in parliament and implemented in the member states.
in writing. few decisions in europe are likely to have as far-reaching and contradictory effects as the council's spring 2007 climate tri-plan 20% emissions reduction, 20% energy saving and 20% renewables, all by 2020. the latter is a binding target, unfortunately, as it threatens to accelerate climate change. until this is understood, the climate benefits are only available from the first two. energy saving, in particular by improving energy efficiency, is undoubtedly one of the most effective tools for combating climate change. there is a broad consensus in parliament on this and on the content of the report, and i thank the rapporteur, mr hallia, for his work in making it possible. the valuable thing about the report is that it has understood the scope and the potential of the matter: the requirement for energy efficiency must have a social impact. it must address all planning and operations at all levels. energy efficiency targets and rules must cover equipment, buildings, energy production and transmission, transport and consumption patterns. we need to act now. it is therefore regrettable that parliament has to remind the commission that legislation already exists in this area. the implementation by the member states has been very weak so far, and the commission must take note of this. improving energy efficiency is a competition where the best climate result is achieved on market terms. this is exemplified by the different standardisation systems. the need to avoid inflexible legislation: when the best available technology is harnessed with a stick and a carrot, horsepower is enough the legislator's lack of detailed options only exhausts the herd.
for the gue/ngl group the report by mr pomés ruiz, rapporteur, is comprehensive. the problem areas have been well identified and await the necessary action. in this context, i would like to say to vice-president kallax that under his leadership, significant improvements have been made in the overall openness and transparency of the union and that he has been very active in this area. the evidence of this activity is the many new databases that are being presented on the internet, but the problem, which is also mentioned in the report, is that - and this problem must be corrected - the procedures for searching for information are still incomplete. this is why the search engines need to be able to unify their content, because if there is no proper search procedure, there is a risk that a lot of information will be obtained, but the quantity may destroy the quality. the question of the so-called blacklist, or verified fraudulent practices, must be considered. in principle, our group approves and supports this list, but in this context it is necessary to ensure in particular that the protection of the data of individuals is safeguarded and that no one is put on such a blacklist on erroneous grounds or as a result of an incorrect procedure. the question of the advisory group on professional ethics in public administration: it is obviously good that the procedure for directly elected members of the european parliament should be different from that for civil servants, as mr grässle has already said here. but the procedure for elected members must be at least as strict, since it cannot be assumed that the ethical standards for members of parliament will be relaxed. in many countries, the financing of elections for members of parliament is public and it may be appropriate for parliament to work towards including these national accounts of electoral financing, candidate advertising and its financing in parliament's databases so that they are also visible at european union level. finally, mr president, i would like to say that european political parties and foundations should not be exempted from the general reporting obligation. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, let me begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr pomés ruiz. i am not doing it only because he is standing next to me and kicking me in the ankle, but because i think his report is very good indeed. i would like to make three points, if you would allow me. firstly, i think that the aim of this report is basically to improve transparency and improve controls. usually you do that three ways. one is to have transparency in terms of documentation: that is quite well provided for under article 255 of the ec treaty; secondly, transparency of finances, which is what we are doing in this report; and thirdly, of course, transparency of meetings. the sad thing i find in this debate – not so much inside but outside this chamber – is that there are a lot of anti-europeans that are using transparency in a very populist way, in the sense that, on one hand, they call for transparency, then when transparency is given, they start attacking people for it. i find this debate, in that sense, a little bit sad, and i think that, when we go transparent, we should be honest and straightforward about it. point number two is on national declarations. i would like to second what ms de lange said about those. we should always stress that. i think mr kallas is doing a very good job. the commission is doing a good job. but 80% of all the funds are actually spent by the member states. that is where we need a little bit more in the financial declarations. i am sure, mr mulder, if he was here, would agree with me. the final point i have is on the famous, or perhaps infamous, paragraph 22 of this report. i see where it is coming from, but i think we should not throw the baby out with the bath-water. therefore, i would recommend that we get rid of paragraph 22, so that all of us can easily vote for this report, because, after all, being against transparency is a little bit like being against peace and motherhood.
first of all, mr president, i would like to join those who have congratulated and thanked the rapporteur, mr pomés ruiz, for his excellent report. at the same time, i would also like to take this opportunity to thank commissioner kallasta, who has done a very good job over the years in promoting these issues. the idea behind this report is that hardly anyone here can disagree with its aims. all the openness and transparency about the misuse of eu funds is only good. in general, the use of all appropriations financed by taxation must be transparent. the taxpayers must always have accurate and correct information about how their money is spent: who is spending the funds, where and how much, must always be available to the citizens. in particular, the principle of publicity and transparency must be respected in the case of misuse of these funds. i believe that the publication of a so-called blacklist on the internet in cases of fraud involving eu funds would also prevent possible cases of misuse and thus promote transparency and openness in the use of eu funds. of course, the challenge of this monitoring is that the systems in different countries are very different and therefore difficult to monitor. i think, mr president, that this report is an important step forward and we must find a common compromise so that it can be adopted here and not be rejected because of minor details.
mr president, i want to take issue with three of the speakers. firstly, mr seppänen, i would like to congratulate him on his speech, because it was extremely moderate, and he is slowly moving – almost – towards the pro-european camp. secondly, mr bonde: the way in which he talks about transparency makes me believe that he is a federalist. so, in that sense, i think that he is also moving in exactly the right direction – even if the request to publish all the people who sit on comitology committees is, perhaps, pushing it a little bit! my final comment concerns mr rübig. i agree with him 100%: the type of populism that we see in the austrian media from the anti-european side is simply abominable, and i really would not like to see any more of that. i have one more question for the rapporteur, mr pomés ruiz: if there was one thing he would like to take out of this report, what would it be?
the committee on agriculture has drawn up an opinion. - mr president, i would like to thank you for the excellent report drawn up by mr francesco musotto on the olaf annual reports 2005/06. the irregularities reported by the member states amounted to eur 1 143 million in 2006. the contribution from the agricultural guidance and guarantee fund (agf) is eur 87 million. although it represents only 0.17% of the total agricultural expenditure of eur 49.7 billion, it must be taken seriously. of these irregularities, about one third were outright fraud. the new regulation will make it easier for member states to recover unjustified aid. the committee on agriculture and the committee on budgetary control therefore regrets that the recovery of these subsidies is still limited. the commission should therefore speed up recovery and apply corrective measures where necessary. the committees, both the committee on agriculture and the committee on budgetary control, also give their full support to the commission in its firm application of the possibility of suspending payments unless the commission has full guarantees that the beneficiary country has a sound system of administration and control. (applause) i would like to thank the
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr musotto. he's done a very thorough and good job. this report is extremely important and the fight against fraud is a matter in which the confidence of the citizens is either won or lost. i think there are three very important points in this report which need to be corrected. firstly, as far as agricultural expenditure is concerned, it cannot be that some countries do not even report data. germany and spain are bad examples in this respect, and germany does not even identify the persons or companies whose information olaf might need to intervene in these cases. this is something we cannot allow, of course, and all member states must follow the same rules. if a few large countries set a bad example, the situation will not look very good. another important point is that the notification of irregularities can take up to 39 months over three years. this is far too long and does not give confidence that the member states will act with sufficient vigilance. the third thing that is particularly interesting and important is that there is also specialized and organized crime in this area. this is such a serious matter that every measure must be taken to stamp out such crime. mr president, this is a very important report and we must do everything we can to improve the situation and to win the confidence of the citizens. (applause) i would like to thank the
rapporteur. − madam president, i have four minutes, so i would like to make four points. my first point is not that it is malcolm harbour’s birthday, but it is, so we should congratulate him. the first point is a vote of thanks because, where a legislative package such as this one is concerned, there is no way one can push it through alone. so my first thanks go to mr brie and ms schaldemose, whom i would almost call my co-rapporteurs. working with you has been a lot of fun. this was a first legislative package for me as well, and has shown that things can work quite well. i would also like to thank my shadow rapporteurs, especially ms de vits, ms rühle and mr manders. working with you has also been a lot of fun. then i would like to thank the three presidencies that have been involved. the first was frank wetzel and the german presidency. they did an excellent job. the second was fernanda and the portuguese presidency. they too did a fantastic job and then, thirdly, the slovenians have shown why new presidencies and small country presidencies are so fantastic. you did a great job as well, so thank you very much, vinka. i would especially like to thank the commission, commissioner verheugen and simon mordue, on the political side, and then on the floor, so to speak, i would like to thank hans, liliana and especially mr ayral, to whom andré has already referred. unfortunately, mr ayral passed away rather suddenly. if i had a choice i would call this the ayral package in tribute to his work, because he was a fantastic european civil servant, of the type we need. my final thanks go to luca from the legal service, to patricia from the secretariat and especially to my assistant tuomas, who has worked so hard that he has a knee injury. in other words, his left knee does not mutually recognise his right any more and he is not able to be here today. he has been the soul behind this whole package. my second point is to ask what the background is to mutual recognition. to put it simply, we had the cassis de dijon decision in 1979. since then we have had 300 court cases to show that mutual recognition does not work. seventy-five per cent of goods are harmonised, and twenty-five percent are not. the harmonised proportion amounts to eur 1 500 billion, or in other words eur 1.5 trillion, and the non-harmonised proportion to eur 500 billion. of that eur 500 billion, there are problems relating to eur 150 billion. the commission tells us that, if mutual recognition worked, our gdp would go up by 1.8%. the commission brought forward a good proposal. unfortunately, the member states tried to water it down, but fortunately we in the european parliament protected the interests of the internal market and pushed through an ambitious package. the third point is to ask what we did. what were the procedural matters that we changed? to put it in simple terms, until now it took a small, medium-sized or large company two to three years to fight a case on mutual recognition in court. that is not really necessary any more, because we have shifted the burden of proof to the member states. basically, in a procedure lasting 20 to 60 days, the member state has to provide – and i stress the word – evidence that a particular rule does not apply in another member state. so we have shifted the burden of proof. what i want to say to all small and medium-sized businesses in europe is that there is no need ever again to fill in a form to apply to enter the market of another country. no, the goods move freely. call us, call me, if you have a problem. you should not be having to apply. the fourth and final point i wanted to make is about practical cases, and the areas to which this applies. the answer is bicycles, scaffolding, fire alarms, bread and plant-based products, and so forth. the principle of mutual recognition applies to a huge market. so my final point, having said my thanks and given a background to procedural changes and practical cases, is that european firms should never again have to let a product be prevented from entering another country’s market. (applause)
rapporteur. − madam president, i should like to finish this debate with four points and, unfortunately, i have to start with mr bloom, from the uk independence party, who criticised, amongst others, myself for being thankful to people who worked on this whole package. i do not know what he was taught at home, but i always thought it would be good manners to thank those people who had made this package possible. perhaps he should not thank his speech-writer – because, of course, he was reading directly from a piece of paper – because obviously the speech-writer did not understand what this package was all about. my part of the package was about mutual recognition, with free movement of goods and with not harmonising everything. so perhaps what mr bloom, or his speech-writer, is suggesting is that marmite or branston pickle should not move freely, or rolls royce, or church’s shoes, or burberry clothing – i do not know how much good that would do for the uk economy. therefore, i would recommend that, if you want to be a credible eu opponent, at least read the papers on which you are going to make comments. my second point is that this is probably a european record in terms of efficiency, because i do not know of a major legislative package which was introduced on valentine’s day – 14 february – 2007 by the commission and approved by coreper on 13 february 2008 – one day under a year. so, to all those people who were afraid that after enlargement we would become a little stiff and inefficient, i would say that this is a good example of a case where we have taken very fast decisions. i would also argue that this is probably the biggest package relating to the free movement of goods since the 1992 delors package, if you remember. therefore, in that sense, this was remarkably fast and, once again, i want to thank all the people who were involved in this, because it shows that the machinery works. my third point relates to when ms ries said that companies hereafter will contact alexstubb.com to send their complaints if mutual recognition does not apply! if you will allow me, i will put a direct link to the commission home page from there. just get in touch with the commission if you have problems with mutual recognition. that should and must be done. my final point is that this is the first big achievement of the slovenian presidency; this is the first big legislative package that the slovenian presidency has pushed through, and i would like to congratulate it on a job well done. i know it was not easy in coreper and i know it was not easy in the working groups, but the presidency did an excellent job and, hopefully, it will be as successful in the final months of its presidency.
the talman! a major task is to bring the union together in a common energy policy that can secure the energy supply of the member states, as you said, prime minister reinfeldt. you also touched on the eu strategy for the baltic sea region which the commission is currently drawing up. a well-designed strategy for the baltic sea region can be an important building block for future energy policy and, in particular, for energy cooperation with russia. the problem is illustrated by the swedish government's decision last week to reject nord stream's application to run a gas pipeline through swedish territorial waters in the baltic sea. the application was too incomplete to be admissible. the region is very suspicious of the pipeline project. a sustainable solution will be difficult to achieve unless the eu and its baltic sea member states jointly set out a course of action and also provide full transparency of the project. i would like to commend sweden for giving us the opportunity to test the new provision on energy policy, article 176a of the treaty of lisbon.
mr president, mr prime minister, when you spoke of the future of europe, you spoke of the militarization of the european union. the lisbon treaty commits the eu member states to increasing their military capabilities. the lisbon treaty makes member states ready to operate abroad in crisis management missions, even peace enforcement, without a un mandate, which is illegal from the point of view of international law. and the lisbon treaty also includes military guarantees of security, at least in the solidarity clause, and in this respect sweden's neutrality is very questionable, its military neutrality is very questionable. mr prime minister, do you consider the military guarantees of security contained in the lisbon treaty to be compatible with your military neutrality?
mr president, eight years after setting the target, we can say with certainty that the european union will not achieve it. the competitiveness objective has remained more a declaration than concrete measures. in practice, achieving the lisbon objectives is highly challenging as europe's population ages. especially when competing countries and regions are making great strides. it is also legitimate to ask whether a competitive economy, even in its original form, was a realistic objective and one which europe should strive for by any means necessary, forgetting all other values. and here i would like to emphasize that there are 18 million unemployed in europe and youth unemployment is 25 percent in some places. unfortunately, i have not noticed that the eu leaders are very interested and concerned about this. however, it is very important that these young people and the unemployed are taken care of.
mr president, the debate today shows how sensitive this matter is to the european parliament. the topic of the day is the raison d'être for us. it is about the wellbeing of europeans in the future. we have our different opinions about the tool bag – how we reach the lisbon goals – but i think everyone in this house wants to reach the goals. even though i agree with ms jäätteenmäki that, unfortunately, we have not seen a lot of progress. i think we have to speak about two different levels of action. first, at european level, we have only one key thing we should do in order to increase competitiveness and that is the single market. the european internal market is the biggest driver of competitiveness in a global context. we also have a lot of red tape and we need to work with our smes – these are very much the key to european success. of course, then we need to concentrate on things at national level, at member state level, and there we need much more action than we have seen lately, especially regarding the structural reforms to the labour market. we heard today the prime minister of sweden, who spoke about the importance of structural reforms to the labour market, also in terms of coping with demographic changes. i think it is self-evident that member states have not done their duty in this respect. also, i think that, on fiscal policy and macroeconomics, we have to end the era of budget deficits. we really need to work on our macroeconomics. this cannot be done by the union, even though we have a single currency. it must be done by the member state politicians. finally, i would like to agree with ms starkevičiūtė, whose report is, i think, wonderful. financial services are one of the cornerstones of the internal market. financial services need much more attention, including at european level.
in writing. the eu has many good intentions, the oldest of which is the lisbon strategy now in hand and the youngest the latest energy package. the means to achieve the ends are not the same as the ends. it is clear that the lisbon strategy is not being implemented as planned, that the member states have not really committed themselves to achieving the objectives. in a way, that is a good thing, because the lisbon strategy is directed against the construction of a social europe. the energy targets may also be affected by the failure to achieve them by 2020. the market moves in the opposite direction and the eu does not act against market trends. the lisbon strategy must be reconsidered in this context: it should defy the power of the market.
for the alde group mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr cem özdemiri, for his successful report. he has done a lot of work on this and has highlighted the key issues of the eu-central asia strategy. the report reveals the eu's ambivalent attitude towards central asia. the union wants to increase imports of natural gas and oil from the region and diversify transport routes. the eu is also committed to improving the human rights situation, promoting democracy, equality and reforming the administration and the judiciary. finding the right balance between these objectives is a challenging task. the eu must step up implementation of the central asia strategy and accelerate project implementation and deepen the country-by-country and regional approach. i would like to stress the importance of dialogue and cooperation between the eu and the countries of central asia. the union must also support interaction between the countries of central asia and provide technical assistance to combat, for example, trafficking in human beings and drugs. eu support for health, social and education reforms and cooperation in science will increase civil society contacts and strengthen european values, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. this will also improve the conditions for cooperation in the field of energy policy. i would also like to emphasise in particular the support given by the eu to basic and further education, which will provide even better conditions for studying in the eu and for exchanges with students from eu universities. the eu should also support and encourage the countries of central asia to step up their efforts to protect the environment and to pursue sustainable use of water and other natural resources.
mr president, increased cooperation at european level is important. i hope that we can get new agreements so that the debate can move on to the substance. three things, please. firstly, the european parliament's legislative powers will be considerably increased if the new treaty enters into force. there will be 40 new policy areas, which means that the workload of our members of parliament will increase considerably. this requires that parliament's work be reorganised so that we can operate efficiently, democratically and transparently. in future, parliament will no longer be a forum for debate but a very important legislative body that affects the lives of europeans. it requires a responsible parliament, it requires that members of parliament be prepared to look at matters from a variety of angles and not, for example, to listen to just one or two lobbyists. and now, the other thing, foreign policy. it is high time to reflect on the competences of the new president, high representative and president of the commission in foreign policy matters. otherwise, there's gonna be trouble, and the outside world won't know who to contact. we all know that behind the scenes there is a heated debate about these power relations, but this debate could be open. and i think this discussion of the competences of the different actors is much more important than the personal discussion. that's important too, of course. secondly, foreign policy, which will remain intergovernmental, but we hope that the eu will be able to speak with one voice and with one accord. and this will require a real change of attitude on the part of the member states. the eu's climate committee has just visited india and we have been told that the eu is not well known there and has little meaning for indians. it's important to them when president sarkozy or prime minister brown visits. and when the eu foreign ministers visit outside the eu, their list, their agenda, is entirely national. when we talk about the eu, it can be in a small side sentence, but not in any other way. if this continues, we will have to wait a long time for the eu to become a strong foreign policy actor.
mr president, mr commissioner, the hungarian parliament ratified the treaty of lisbon before it had been officially submitted to it. so it didn't know what it was approving. in this case, where the european parliament has no legal competence, we too are being ridiculed, since we do not have the consolidated version of the treaty as a basis for our deliberations. without it, the treaty is illegible to us and to the citizens of the eu. our group will not accept the deal. the eu is being militarized and is evolving towards a military alliance. it does not increase social europe or promote ideal democracy. the agreement commits member states to increasing their military capabilities for operations outside their territory and in former colonies. eu military operations can be carried out without a un mandate, i.e. also illegally from the point of view of international law. the convention did not include an article in the eu constitution on a mandatory un mandate. it was prevented by the eu and nato countries, which are no strangers to waging illegal wars, such as in iraq. the eu also has combat forces compatible with nato for peace enforcement, i.e. wars in other countries. the same weapons are used by the nrf strike force of nato. the lisbon treaty is fully compatible with nato and puts the nato hat on the eu. the interpretation of the meaning of the eu's own collective and military security guarantees is unclear. when member states commit themselves to assisting other member states by all available means, all these available means may also be military. if they are, and they are used, then the eu is also a military alliance.
mr president, before my customary three points, i want to take issue with what nigel farage of the ukip talked about. he mentioned the word ‘chicken’. we might, perhaps, expect that something will be going on during the vote and i would like to say that you are what you wear during the vote. we will see what ukip looks like. i have three points. my first point is that, in the european union, we are in a constant process of change. we stood here and dealt with a similar report two years ago, and i would really like to congratulate the rapporteurs, richard corbett and íñigo méndez de vigo, on a job well done. what happened in 2005 was unfortunate. what we have done since is crisis management. this is really what europe is all about. we need to solve problems; we solved a treaty problem and, hopefully, we can get on now. my second point is that i think the treaty that we have in front of us is a great improvement on the nice treaty. it is an improvement in terms of efficiency: we get more qualified majority voting, we get a legal personality, we get a great deal more on external relations and good stuff on justice and home affairs. it is also an improvement of democracy. the european parliament increases its powers, the charter of fundamental rights comes into the treaty and the national parliaments get more powers. so, in many ways, it is a great improvement on the nice treaty. my third and final point, however, is that now it is time to move on. i congratulate those five countries that have already ratified the treaty. the sooner we can push this treaty through, the better off all of us will be, because it is time to move on, focus on real business, on legislation, on taking smart european decisions. when we do that, however, we must not forget that we have a vision. that vision is of a unified europe, because the european union is the only organisation that has given us four things. those four things are peace, prosperity, stability and security.
mr president, if the european union were a car, this treaty would be about tuning that vehicle. it is very important that we have new structures, especially in the field of foreign and security policy, and i agree with those people who have stressed the importance of good common foreign and security policy, but it is not enough just to have good structures in place. if we cannot coordinate our action, and if we cannot really work together and produce common messages to give to a kissinger or a rice, then those messages are worth nothing. we need to bring more substance to this debate, and we really need to work towards common views. we now have the perfect vehicle. we need to start driving it in a certain direction and we need to take on our role in the world. this treaty gives us the tools with which to do that.
mr president, i would like to give a brief account of the vote on why i abstained. i think we must remember that this is not a matter for our parliament, but for the member states, and we must respect the fact that the member states themselves can decide whether or not to accept this new lisbon treaty. i think we need to stop now and remember what the powers are. i personally think that the national states should make this decision in peace. it is not a bad thing to ask the citizens, because it also gives more legitimacy to decision-making if the citizens are allowed to have a say in the process. mr president, there is a lot of good in this agreement, but there are also points which cannot be accepted, and if i think of it from the point of view of one member state, finland, from which i come, there are many points which are not acceptable to us. but in any case, the national parliaments have the final say. (applause) i would like to thank the
in writing. mr president, the albanian aspirations to independence cannot be ignored for ever. that would not be a return to zero, but a return well below zero. this is what the council of state's harri holker, who was also the kosovo negotiator, saw a while ago. as many colleagues have said, kosovo's independence was a matter of necessity. it has also been emphasised that the kosovo case is sui generis and that independence does not therefore threaten the principles of conflict resolution under international law. thus, a new state was born in europe on a lasting basis. it is, of course, regrettable that no reconciliation, no even a minimum of understanding, has been achieved between the parties. the international community cannot be blamed for the lack of effort, as the negotiations were led by martti ahtisaari, a distinguished peacemaker. now we must insist that the ahtisaari plan remains the guiding star in the building of the new state. its demands allow for the western rule of law and internal and external stability in the region. the security of kosovo and the western balkans is above all a european matter. so, while the un security council's inability to take responsibility for the situation is once again evident, the eu must prepare itself to make an effort. the integration of the western balkans into european stability is perhaps our greatest challenge since the birth of the union. regional tensions now threaten to escalate, mass unemployment frustrates the people, and corruption and crime are rampant. the declaration of independence was eagerly awaited in kosovo and it produced a genuine joy in the people, which is easy for a european to share. now it is up to the forces of that social ecstasy to build the most difficult, lasting peace and stability. it worked 50 years ago in the rest of europe so why not finally in the balkans?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to warmly welcome kosovo to the european union. the declaration of independence was a courageous act by kosovo. now the country and its citizens must show the same courage and self-confidence as they begin to build their own multicultural society. it has long been clear that kosovo's independence drive is a one-way street. it's been a matter of time. the deadline for independence would have been the accession of serbia to the european union. i'm glad it didn't take this long. kosovo has been under un administration for 10 years. the situation is very different from other separatist areas. the coming years will require foresight and wisdom on the part of kosovo's leaders. i think they'll find it. war, ethnic hatred and the governance of the international community are experiences from which we must be able to learn. the most important thing now is to focus on building a stable civil society. independence also removes the uncertainty that has kept both domestic and foreign investment at bay. the ahtisaari plan provides a good framework for the early stages of the country's independence. success is only possible if leaders and citizens see the building of their country as their own project and not as an external mandate. the international community must also be able to distance itself from the situation and allow the kosovar and serb populations of the country to build their own model of coexistence. there are almost as many examples of multicultural countries as there are european states. so kosovo is no exception in this respect either. once again, congratulations to the people of kosovo and welcome to the ranks of independent states!
mr president, the critical examination of old mechanisms and working methods and the creation of new ones have raised high hopes for the human rights council's ability to act as an effective body, focusing on human rights violations and leaving general political situations clearly within the remit of other un bodies. the credibility of the human rights council also depends on the new mandate holders for the special procedures to be appointed in march. it is of the utmost importance that expertise, impartiality, independence and objectivity are decisive. like many others here, i would like to see the human rights council reconsider its decision not to renew the mandate of the special representatives on belarus and cuba in the present situation. the eu member states should also endeavour to ensure that the mandate of the independent expert on the drc is extended.
mr president, commissioner, i bring to this debate the northern perspective. it is important that the permanent handicaps of the north - long distances, cold weather and sparse population - continue to be taken into account as factors requiring support, as well as the problems of mountains and islands. it is also worth remembering that the northern regions generate added value in areas such as mining, wood processing and tourism. furthermore, the nordic research and applications of new technologies, in cooperation between universities, businesses, the public sector and consumers, are continuously generating new major innovations, from which all of europe benefits. i would also like to recall the potential of the baltic sea strategy and the integration of the northern dimension, for example in the exploitation of the energy resources of the barents region. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent reports and to thank commissioner hübner for his interest in the northernmost part of the union.
madam president, like many colleagues, i also think that the unity of the european union is very important, not only in visa policy but other issues related to the united states of america. i would, however, like to ask the commissioner specifically: do you think that the us is now demanding from those member states who are trying to independently negotiate a visa waiver programme different levels of requirements based on other reasons than security? do you think that the us is playing eu member states against each other and trying to use other issues also linked to the matter? or is it just security concerns from the us side?
for the alde group mr president, about a quarter of the european union's greenhouse gas emissions come from transport. there is therefore a clear need to reduce transport emissions. transport must be made less burdensome to the environment. air transport has been completely excluded from international climate agreements. but it is causing increasing emissions and it must be included in the agreements. here, the user-pays principle was found to be a good principle. i agree with that view. that is a good principle, considering the circumstances. there are countries and regions in europe with a low population density that have no public transport and therefore no other means of transport than private cars. in this case, the user-pays principle is not appropriate. driving for pleasure is quite different from using your car for compulsion in a situation where you cannot use public transport. the aim must be to move freight traffic off the road in the future. in general, transport needs to move away from fossil fuels to renewable fuels. we have a lot of work to do at european union level if we are really going to achieve the targets we have committed ourselves to together, namely to reduce emissions. it is a matter of will, and since the matter has been decided jointly, all nations must also work together to see that the decisions are carried out.
i would like to congratulate mr alberti on his excellent work and his good proposals. the issue before us is of the utmost importance and the public expects clear answers. the question is not so simple when we consider that the free movement of people and goods is one of the fundamental pillars of the european union. it is clear that both will expand in the future. it is also clear that we must consider where we move, how we move and what means we use. the decision we make is going to have a big impact. as mr jäätteenmäki has already pointed out, it is very difficult to imagine that in my own country, for example, there would be any serious restrictions on movement. the distances are long and people have to use private cars to get to work because there is no public transport. i think that the commission should be able to take the initiative in this area. we have to consider whether we're moving for nothing. can we cut down on the unnecessary movement? what are we gonna do? parliament has a shuttle service which most of us use and which works very well. but we must consider the kind of cars we drive. what equipment does the parliament, the commission and the council have at their disposal? hybrid cars could be provided for members of parliament. example is very important. we cannot ask citizens or european companies to do something we do not do ourselves. so we must set a good example.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the european solidarity fund was set up in 2002 following the devastating floods in central europe, which affected both the eu member states and the candidate countries. at that time, the amount of the fund was agreed at eur 1 billion per year. the fund is intended to mitigate the damage caused by major disasters. the scale of the disaster must be at least eur 3 billion or at least 0,6% of the gross domestic product of the member state. if the injury is limited to a smaller area, it may be less, but regionally it is still relatively higher. the damage in question was caused by the great floods in the uk in june-july 2007. the damage is eur 4,6 billion, which makes it eligible. the commission proposes a budget of eur 162 million. the committee on budgets supports in its budget the financing of the aid as proposed by the commission. however, this requires parliament's approval of the mobilisation of support. the report by mr böge on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund must therefore be adopted first. otherwise, the first supplementary budget will concern mainly the agencies and the administration of the galileo programme. the budget created the european research council executive agency to support the european research council. its establishment is in line with the examination of the budget approved for the current year. the supplementary budget also creates a joint executive agency, the research executive agency (rea), for the other research programmes of the seventh framework programme, in line with the previous budgetary procedure. the staff of the frontex agency will also be supplemented as required by parliament. parliament increased the budget for this agency by eur 30 million in the budgetary procedure and the necessary additional agencies are now being set up. the most difficult problem is the galileo navigation programme. the european parliament's great achievement was that it succeeded in securing the funding of the programme in the budget negotiations by increasing its resources by eur 2.4 billion for six years. this was done, inter alia, by reviewing the multiannual financial development. this project has become a clear eu project. it's about project management. the commission proposes to transfer eur 2 million from the operational appropriations to the administrative budget. but the project management is messy. it has been managed in the eu mainly by the gsa, the galileo supervisory authority. its main role has been to deal with licensing issues and negotiations for cooperation between the public and private sectors. the role of the gsa is unclear, as is that of the commission and esa, the european space agency. the initial idea is that esa will act as the technical implementer of the project, which will be supervised and equipped by the eu. however, the division of labour between the different actors, such as the commission and the separate agencies, is unclear. the barsi-pataky report by the committee on industry and research therefore proposes that the gsa be abolished. in these circumstances, the committee on budgets could not approve the transfer of appropriations to the commission, but only proposed the creation of a budget line with the designation 'pm'. the commission, for its part, promised not to make a transfer within its competence until the whole system of governance of galileo had been agreed. the amendment of the supplementary budget in this respect does not therefore delay the project but ensures parliament's negotiating position. i hope that the plenary will be able to follow the unanimous position of the committee on the first supplementary budget.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr commissioner, this parliament knows many different kinds of solidarity. the toughest form of solidarity is military aid. the lisbon treaty's solidarity clause obliges member states to provide armed assistance to another member state that is the victim of a terrorist threat or attack. the european union is not known for greater solidarity. the security clause of the lisbon treaty does not impose any obligation to provide military assistance. so it's less of a solidarity than a terrorist threat. the rapporteur for next year's budget, jutta haug, proposes that the commission's budget should be based on the principle of regional solidarity, i.e. balancing developments within the union. it is best implemented through the structural funds. the supplementary budget now before us seeks to mobilise budgetary resources to compensate for the damage caused by the floods in the united kingdom. the solidarity fund has a budget of eur 1 billion for such purposes. our group approves the mobilisation of the fund's resources to help the united kingdom. it is possible that extreme natural events such as floods will increase as a result of global warming. the solidarity fund offers them a kind of micro-insurance, paid by the member states to the eu budget, which in turn provides them with assistance from others. in addition to the solidarity fund, the eu budget also includes a globalisation fund, which is authorised to spend eur 500 million annually to address the social problems caused by job displacement. last year, less than eur 20 million was mobilised for these purposes. it seems that the eu is in solidarity with states, but not with citizens in difficulty.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank all those who took part in the debate for their good and constructive speeches. the solidarity fund is very young and therefore its limits are set quite high. it has not been possible to rely on prior knowledge of the amount of funds needed. perhaps these limits can be revised to some extent in the future. i agree that speed is absolutely paramount in this job. the committee on budgets has given considerable thought to the use of the globalisation fund to overcome the problems caused by the loss of jobs. this is clearly an area where the eu will have to do a lot in the future. many have also commented on civilian crisis management. this year's budget also includes a pilot project to speed up forest fire prevention, and we are looking for further good results in this area. as for the galileo project, there is no intention of increasing its funding. this is clearly a starting point. the funding we have is sufficient. but the administration must be efficient. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources available to the community are used to the full. it must be effective, and that is why we want to use the negotiating power of parliament to agree with the commission and the council on the best possible way of managing this european, very ambitious, major project. i am convinced that in the coming weeks we will reach a good outcome.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you very much for the good cooperation. it is always necessary in our work to achieve a good result. the establishment of the institute of innovation and technology has been in the works for almost three years, and time has passed since the commission's original proposal called for a number of improvements. parliament's committees, in particular the committee on industry, research and energy, have adapted the proposal to the new faith. the parliament and the council have been granted more powers without compromising the eit's autonomy. the selection of its governing board is more closely related to the selection of the european research council, which has been praised by the scientific community. as has just been pointed out, the opportunities for smes to participate in the activities of the eit and to benefit from its activities and its work have also been strengthened. they are the ones with the greatest employment impact, the flexibility and efficiency needed to implement innovations quickly. above all, the institute's focus has changed. the european institute of innovation and technology, as its name suggests, focuses on innovation. the other two elements of the knowledge triangle, teaching and research, are important, but innovation is clearly at the top of the triangle, its focus and its goal. we must continue to invest in quality education and basic research, but as we all know, innovation is the achilles heel of europe. americans file more than one third more patent applications with the european patent office than europeans themselves. we need more knowledge-intensive products and services. in ten years, china has increased the share of r&d funding in its gdp from about zero to the current one and a half percent. in exactly 17 eu member states, this share is lower than in china. the share of r & d investment in the european union in gdp is still significantly lower than in other world economies. what is even more alarming is that in our country the share of investment has decreased in recent years, not increased. the level of risk finance is almost as low. the lisbon strategy is a dynamic one. why don't we believe in our own plans? high-level education and research produce far too few commercial and operational applications, or at least less than in competing countries. our patent system is also complicated. shouldn't brain drain be a serious issue for the union as it strives to become the world's leading knowledge-based economy? the eit will not eliminate these problems, but it can help by setting an example. it offers a new approach to business cooperation in education and research, creates opportunities for the commercial exploitation of research and strengthens mutual links. the eit will not become a super-university, with its best researchers, and parliament's amendments guarantee this. after some initial funding issues, the situation is now clear. the second kic i propose will focus on the ict sector. there is already considerable business capital coming in. so funding is not a problem. research experiments alone are not enough, but collaboration is needed, and the eit was set up to do this. the compromise reached with the council is so favourable that we can support it, and that is why i ask my colleagues in the vote that is about to take place to support the compromise reached. thank you all. (applause) i would like to thank the
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we should remember that when we started, the vast majority were against this whole project. we have now developed it together with the commission and the council. we now have a child who is already powerful, namely that the matter has been put to the vote and i hope that a large majority will vote in favour of the project. so we can work together like this. i would like to make a point of introducing the place of work, but i would stress that it is a modern network system in which researchers and the community work independently. they do not focus on the capital city that will be chosen as the seat of the institute. in addition, its administration is relatively small, with less than 100 people, so that no large premises are needed. but there is one important thing. it must be well connected, preferably with direct flights, because we have a lot of experience of how difficult it is to work in a place where there are no direct flights, where you have to hold meetings even at the airport. the next thing to consider is financing. it is important, but funding has already been found for one of the proposed subjects, for example, communication technology. in other words, if you can make the subject attractive, you can find funding for it. we're not that short of capital. many colleagues have said that this is a new kind of cooperation. the institute is not therefore in competition with others, but is creating cooperation, as mr ek said. mr ransdorf and others also said that the european model, the european century of science, should be brought to the forefront of world science. here is one way to express the kind of quality we need. thank you very much for all your cooperation. this project must succeed, because europe needs it. thank you, sir. (applause) i would like to thank the
in writing. – education, research and innovation are windows to the future. they are the building blocks of what is called the ‘knowledge triangle’. we need to be competitive. the knowledge triangle is one of the keys. i support the text, since the commission proposal to create a european institute of technology (eit) aims to tackle one of europe’s main weaknesses: the lack of innovation. i see the eit as an investment for the future. before there was some scepticism as to the added value eit could offer. the proposed network structure is a good solution. the expertise lies in the participating universities and higher education institutions. remembering my academic years, i also support the idea of the eit’s ‘knowledge and innovation communities’ (kics) being autonomous. selection of such centres will be based on a criterion of excellence. i support this, because this way the eit kics will give the best kicks to european innovation.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs paasilinna, who has done a good job. i voted for this motion. as soon as this proposal came up for discussion and as soon as i had a few opportunities to discuss it with the president of the commission, i still consider it important that the starting point should be the strengthening and networking of existing universities. institutions should not be set up for their own sake. it is essential to ensure that the institute is a coordinating body and that research funding is not diverted from existing universities and research institutes which have done good work. the new institute could coordinate european innovation and technology and thereby create new added value. the institution is needed, but as i said, the content must be the core, not the framework. i believe that there are suitable premises in poland and elsewhere, but we must not forget the content.
mr president, the report by the committee on agriculture on the health inspection of agricultural products is realistic. the main problem is the decoupled support. the commission is calling for a greater decoupling of aid from production. the committee is very careful, and for good reason. in many ways, the untying of aid is in the nature of a waiver of aid. it favours farms that reduce and abandon production, but does not encourage young farmers to expand production. it also favours large-scale production at the expense of labour-intensive production. the most vulnerable areas in particular seem to be losing out. for example, in the united states, aid is still mainly tied to production. the most regrettable aspect is that the social legitimacy of the aid is being weakened. if a farmer who produces food part-time receives the same support as another farmer who works seven days a week, the taxpayers may protest. the role of agriculture is to continue to produce food.
madam president, two minutes is not long enough to allow me to take on board all the points. i would just like to be very brief. i am in agreement with many of the things mentioned by my colleagues, especially what ms van den burg said about commission reluctance to give a greater role to level three committees. i think that it is natural that level three committees have two different roles. they have succeeded well in giving advice on new directives. the advisory role is very well accomplished, but we have not yet found a way to achieve true convergence in europe. there is a real asymmetry between european convergence and national accountability. although we wholeheartedly support the ecofin proposals, the road map and everything that has been produced, we have doubts that they will solve the problems we have in europe. is it really possible to achieve fully integrated management with the current supervisory system? i do not think this is the case. we also think that consolidating the supervisory model of the crd needs much bigger improvements than the ones presented in the road map. it is not enough to have good delegational powers, good information requirements and to solve home host issues. we need to give level three committees more decisive powers. they need to be more independent of the commission and to be the seed of the new european supervisory network-based system. finally, i would like to raise the issue, which was also dealt with by my colleague, mr radwan, of us convergence and global consequences. i think we are losing time in europe. if we do not get our act together, we cannot really be taken seriously by our international colleagues. even though the financial services dialogue has developed well, we need to further improve our route to convergence in order to show the americans that we have an equivalent system and can rely on mutual recognition and even substituted compliance. so this global aspect is very important to take on board.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr tabajdia, for his excellent report. he's done some pretty thorough work. biogas is an important renewable energy resource that contributes to sustainable agricultural development and improves the state of the environment. biogas can also improve the energy self-sufficiency of farms and regions, and only a small part of this resource has been tapped. however, there is still a lot of product development, new innovations, exchange of good practices and additional funding needed. the important raw materials for biogas, manure and by-products of the food industry, should not be classified as waste but as useful raw materials for biogas and fertilisers. at the same time, a common framework is needed to promote the use of biogas throughout the european union and to remove national barriers and restrictions to the use of biogas.
for the ppe-de group mr president, energy statistics have always been dealt with at community level on the basis of a gentlemen's agreement. it was clear in advance what statistics were to be collected, with what precision and when they were to be ready for release. but that has not been the case for some time now. the enlargement of the eu, the resulting divergence in statistical practices and other reforms such as the liberalisation of energy markets and alternative forms of energy have all combined to create the need for a rapid development of a community-wide legal framework for statistics. the compromise package we are discussing today is the result of intensive negotiations, in which a little search for gentlemanliness was required, but in the end it was found to everyone's advantage. the energy statistics process was only supposed to be a small entry in parliament's work statistics, but the rapporteur, mr turmesin, succeeded in creating a political game of passion, which is full of official dry and technical statistics. the requirements for detailed statistics on nuclear fuel cycle and end-use of energy, expanded statistics on renewable energy, as well as the ambitious requirements for the timing of the annual reporting of eurostat, were politically coloured. however, in order to fulfil its mission, statistics must necessarily be a neutral instrument, and nothing more. as the shadow representative of my group, i was assigned the role of mediator. that is how far the positions of eurostat and the council were from the objectives of our rapporteur. i would now like to thank all the parties for the wise willingness to compromise, which will now bring the much-needed regulation into force quickly. the reforms promoted by mr turmes are also taken into account in the regulation, but in a realistic way. we also found agreement on what the regulation is intended to deal with and what is left to other legislation. for example, peat which is classified as fossil or renewable, insofar as it is renewed annually, is an excellent example of this. let that battle remain in the upcoming debate on the renewable energy directive, where our paths are expected to cross again.
mr president, the president-in-office of the council was quite right in assessing that climate change and the economy are closely linked. you can't tell the difference between them. we've talked about climate change being a political issue here. this is how we must see this issue at the forthcoming summit. mitigating and adapting to climate change must be at the heart of the eu's lisbon strategy. the future summit must establish a credible political line to support the decisions taken. unfortunately, energy efficiency and energy saving are not among the european union's range of binding measures. however, it must be remembered that the cleanest, cheapest and most efficient energy is the energy saved. we could already save that 20% by implementing all the european union legislation, so we need even more ambitious and clearer energy efficiency targets. i hope that this will be taken into account at the next summit.
in writing. the european union is full of big words. they have been used again this morning when we were talking about the lisbon strategy. the truth is that progress has been slow and the target is not being met. the presidency's expressed desire to develop a strategy with a social dimension seems to be nothing more than euro-election propaganda: the means are missing from the speeches and therefore the screens. the presidency should have focused on the smaller tasks as well. such would have been to provide the member states with a consolidated version of the lisbon treaty. the slovenian parliament's model of ratifying the agreement without it is not a model for democratic countries.
in writing. mr president, i thank my colleague, ana gomes, for her excellent report: the practical approach has delivered an exceptionally clear message to the council and the commission and to the iraqis. the heart of the problem is clear: iraq is not short of money. what is lacking is stability, political will, strong institutions and the administrative capacity to use money well. it is in these areas that the union has a contribution to make. first of all, iraq is not a traditional development area, but an exceptional field of work. for this reason, individual tools cannot produce lasting results. by combining development and security instruments under one umbrella, the eu could enhance its dialogue with iraqi society. the commission must allow democratic control of financial instruments. secondly, the union should commit itself specifically to supporting the parliamentary dimension. we must support the introduction of good governance and working practices in the council of representatives, train and provide resources for parliamentary work and, if necessary, expert assistance for the development of legislation. thirdly, we must insist that human rights are at the heart of iraq's development struggle. the situation of ethnic and religious minorities requires the union's contribution. assyrian, chaldean, and syrian christians, as well as other minority groups, such as the turkmens, face continuing discrimination and threats to their lives. we must make a more determined effort to put an end to them. i hope that all colleagues will understand that the report is no longer about mistakes of the past, that those mistakes are acknowledged and that blaming them does not help the iraqis. we must not only do so because the past obliges us to do so, but precisely because there is no future in iraq.
mr president, everything we have heard today indicates that there is an urgent need for humanitarian aid. however, many aid workers have been forced to withdraw from the area because of its insecurity. the un refugee agency has reported a particularly poor security and humanitarian situation in refugee camps, as well as widespread sexual violence. the worsening of the chaotic situation in chad has been accelerated by the declaration of a state of emergency by the government on 15 february. a declared state of emergency is a particularly worrying way of approaching crisis and chaos. in practice, it guarantees the government of the country the right to silence and arrest both actual and suspected members of the opposition. the state of emergency also gives the government the right to restrict the freedom of movement and assembly of citizens, and the right to control private and state media. the eu should not only appeal to the chadian government to lift the state of emergency, but also encourage chad to cooperate more closely with it in order to ensure that humanitarian aid organisations have access to and the opportunity to work in crisis areas as soon as possible.
mr president, mr minister, i was surprised last week in ljubljana to see that the slovenian parliament had ratified this agreement without a consolidated version. the members of parliament cannot access the text as it is now distributed to them. i would like to ask whether, to your knowledge, there was an agreement in the council of ministers or at the summit that the consolidated text should be delayed as long as possible. is there any agreement that there will be no referenda on the constitution, on the treaty of lisbon?
i asked whether there had been a decision in the council or in the summit not to hold referendums, to recommend to the member states not to hold referendums. that was my question.
member of the commission. - the mr president, honourable members, it is more than a year since the commission's communication entitled 'mobilizing public and private capital to finance global access to environmentally friendly, affordable and secure energy services'; the global energy efficiency and renewable energy fund, known as geeref. since then there have been many developments, such as the bali agreement last december, which make this initiative seem even more important and timely today. it is therefore the right time to discuss this report, and i am pleased to note that the european parliament is particularly positive towards this new and innovative instrument to support energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. the commission has already proposed that public funds be used in a global venture capital fund, although mr turmes has already outlined the main points which led us to this decision, even by raising the questions. it is a fact that, despite the continuing progress made in the exploitation of renewable energy sources, their share in the global energy mix is still low. it is also known that improving energy efficiency can yield more benefits than building new energy infrastructure. however, investments in energy efficiency around the world are not fully exploiting the potential for improvement. the major difficulties in attracting private finance for energy efficiency and renewable energy projects are therefore a major problem. the reasons are complex. they mainly concern the lack of venture capital. venture capital needs in developing countries and in economies in transition are estimated at more than eur 9 billion per year. this is much higher than the current available levels. although public subsidies have increased in recent years, the total amount available is not sufficient. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the services provided by the european union. however, long payback periods for clean technology investments are a barrier for investors. this is even more so for geographical areas considered to be high risk. for example, private investment in sub-saharan africa is very low, which is why one of the objectives of the geeref is to invest in these regions, and the rate mentioned by mr turmes is indicative. it is a minimum that must be invested in these areas. a second problem raised by mr turmes is the scale of the projects. for small-scale projects in remote countries the administrative costs and the processing costs may be higher and, consequently, international financial institutions are not willing to finance projects, especially if their value is below 10 million euros as you mentioned. the purpose of the geeref fund is precisely that, namely to overcome these obstacles to small-scale investment. we'll focus on these projects. the fund will attract private investors using public resources to protect them against the risks i mentioned above. to launch the geeref fund, the european commission will commit some eur 80 million from this year to 2010. with the additional commitments made, as you said earlier, by the german and norwegian governments, we have exceeded 100 million euros. we expect to raise additional venture capital from the private sector of at least eur 300-500 million and perhaps as much as eur 1 billion, a little bit more in the long term. mr president, i am pleased to note that with this report the european parliament is supporting the creation of the global fund for energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. i thank the rapporteur, mr turmes, for his efforts, and also mr wijkman and mrs korhola of the committee on development and the committee on the environment for their contributions. i consider this to be an important and timely initiative which demonstrates that the european union is taking action and is determined to help developing countries gain access to energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. the basic condition for financing projects, and not only for projects relating to biomass or biofuels, will undoubtedly be compliance with sustainability criteria, which will not be less than those specified in the various european union legislation. this will strengthen the relationship of trust that we must build with these countries, especially in view of the global climate change agreement to be concluded in 2009. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. - mr president, climate and energy issues have rapidly become central to almost all eu policy areas. in particular, the increase in renewable energy is now a matter of urgency, not least because of the quantitative targets already decided on for renewable energy. the fund is a great example, one that gives hope. it's not always obvious. a politically trending topic can become a litmus test of political correctness, and the situation can create a race to see who is the most ambitious for all that is good. this seems to be the case with the recently published renewable energy target. the proposal also contains elements of over-reaching and the timetable set has its clear dangers. in the absence of genuine technological possibilities, there is a danger that the binding objective will be implemented in a way that irreversibly destroys natural values. not all biofuels are environmentally beneficial, and not all renewable energy sources reduce emissions, as mr turmes rightly pointed out a moment ago. we need renewable energy, but we need it wisely. the global fund for energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, currently under consideration, is a prime example of how a good cause can be promoted in a way that brings multiple benefits. the fund, as the old saying goes, does not just give fish to the hungry, but also teaches people to fish by financing local projects, thus transferring and preserving skills and know-how in third countries. this will create the conditions for the sustainability and continuity of the projects.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the turmes report is a very ambitious objective to get developing countries to use their energy resources efficiently. these countries are often located in geographical areas with access to cheap renewable energy resources. progress can be made without major investment in the latest technology. for example, the production of charcoal from the scarce wood reserves in the desertifying regions of sub-saharan africa is a more energy-efficient way of using wood resources than direct burning of wood. you have to know how to carbonize a tree before you burn it. it does not take much money to teach this and other poor skills. i interpret the principles of operation of the geeref in such a way that it is not possible to obtain funds from the fund for the dissemination of knowledge alone, but other development aid can certainly be used for these purposes. financing projects through equity-based investments is an interesting option. the good thing about it from the point of view of the recipients and users is that it does not add to the debt of indebted countries. however, the question arises as to how expensive the management of these investments and the monitoring of the repayment capacity of the financed small enterprises will be. the fund at hand can, at best, prepare developing countries for less fossil-intensive growth. our group approves the report by mr turmes with a unanimous vote.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr uccello for his excellent report and i would like to join many of my colleagues in expressing their disapproval of the amendments tabled by the right-wing parties. in order to ensure that women's rights are fully realised in development cooperation, the european union needs a women's rights ambassador to ensure that women's rights are taken into account. this would also help to make the use of development funds more efficient. we know that the cheapest way to promote development is to improve women's rights, including sexual rights, education, employment opportunities and so on. this is a fact that is known from experience and numerous studies, but it is forgotten time and again, including when deciding how to spend eu development funds. that is why we need an ambassador for women's rights, and that is why i hope that my colleagues will support amendment no 20 on this subject.
mr president, this report was preceded by a very lively debate in committee at the beginning of the year and this debate seems to be continuing here in the plenary today. i think women's health services, broadly speaking, are a very important part of human rights. women's health services include sexual and reproductive health services. this is not just a problem in developing countries, but in the united states, for example, i heard yesterday that 40 per cent of young teenage girls have stds. enlightenment and responsibility alone are not enough, even in the western world. the situation is even worse in developing countries. the number of women infected with hiv is increasing, the number of sexual violence against women is increasing. similarly, the provision of sexual and reproductive services in developing countries is not about abortion but about women knowing what options they have and having the right to make their own choices.
mr president, the recent arab summit was more soap than substance. it failed to resolve the important questions due to the absence of key players. lebanon’s political crisis and ever-worsening security situation means that the eu must improve the political dialogue and assist a return to the rule of law and democracy. despite the eu-lebanon action plan having identified effective implementation of lebanon’s international commitments with respect to human rights and fundamental freedoms as a priority, almost no progress has been made. dysfunctional state institutions and the worsening economy have caused civil disquiet and protests. even the recent teachers’ strike is toothless without responsive state institutions. the current political situation undermines the european neighbourhood policy (enp) reform agenda, but the enp can be a catalyst for political debate by moving it from power-based discussions towards issue-based discussions. enp partnership rewards progress. lebanon is not the best student at learning and cooperating with the enp, but we cannot allow its adoption as if it were a strategy choice.
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr commissioner dimas, the eu's environmental policy is not meeting the objectives of the sixth environmental programme. this was the conclusion reached in the study which parliament used as a basis for the commission's mid-term evaluation of the programme. the thematic strategies which are the cornerstone of the environmental programme and the legislation which is based on them, and which has largely been adopted, will not achieve the environmental objectives. the loss of biodiversity is unlikely to be halted and marine protection legislation is not expected to have any effect by 2012. soil protection, as we know, has faced problems not only in the council but also here in parliament. the waste legislation is now in its final stages, and it's not looking good. the reduction of waste must be sufficiently targeted. the objectives adopted in the air quality directive are also below the objectives adopted in the sixth environmental programme. however, one area is where the objectives of the environment programme are being achieved, and that is climate policy. this is particularly true when the measures now agreed are actually implemented. it must be remembered that the implementation of climate policy also helps with air quality issues and partly also with waste issues, so it is very important in that respect too. but then what can we do to get back on the road to achieving the objectives of the sixth environmental programme? first, member states must improve the national implementation of eu law. the commission must be given sufficient resources to enable it to monitor that all member states are putting things in order and doing their homework. the second important, major and perhaps most important issue is how we manage to integrate the environment into all european union legislation. we have been talking about this for years, but we have yet to take any practical action. we still have areas where we support activities that are harmful to the environment. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of taxation for the benefit of the environment. if legislation at european level does not allow the development of environmental taxes, the means available, such as flexible cooperation, must be used to take taxation issues forward. binding legislation must continue to play a central role in improving the state of the environment. i would like to thank all the groups involved and to inform you that i have tabled a few amendments with the sole aim of clarifying the text and improving its balance.
for the verts/ale group mr president, a big thank you to ms riitta myller for her excellent work as rapporteur and for the cooperation. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the environment of natural habitats is based on the principle of subsidiarity. for example, it is unlikely that we will be able to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2010, despite our commitments. the unpleasant truth is that our society is built to operate in an unsustainable way. if all the people on earth consumed like europeans, it would take four earths to produce the resources. when the middle class in china, india and other developing countries copy our consumption patterns, the planet is in trouble. i hope that the awakening that is now underway, through climate policy, will expand to a broader reassessment of our lifestyles and our production models.
the rapporteur. - mr president, thank you to all those who took part in the debate and to the commissioner. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. the commission has stated in its own interim report that it believes that, as commissioner dimas has said, this will be achieved by the means set out in the interim review of the sixth environmental programme, but the study of the commission's current policy indicates otherwise. this report, which i hope will be adopted by a large majority tomorrow, points out areas where there is still room for improvement at european level and it mentions very much the same means as those put forward by the commissioner in his speech. so we have a common understanding of what needs to be done, but as satu hassi said here, that is to say, whether these means are sufficient at all to put the european union on the road to sustainable development, we must certainly think about this together in all honesty. we are now on the right track with regard to climate policy; if we can achieve the same ambitious policy in other areas, we will certainly succeed. i said that i had made a few amendments to clarify this report. i would like to point out that the finnish language of amendment no 14 is very specific, so that the english texts must be used as a basis.
in writing. i was the rapporteur for the last discharge of the european coal and steel community. the assets of the winding-up company were acquired from the coal and steel industries and it is therefore reasonable that the remaining assets should be used specifically for research in these sectors and not be extended to oil exploration. the use of emission-free or 'clean' coal, which involves carbon capture and storage (css), requires research and experimental facilities which cannot be financed by this fund, but which are in great need. it is interesting that today, coincidentally, shell asked for public support for this activity, that is, from the eu. as rapporteur, mr gierek is clearly committed to promoting the use of coal for energy production and represents the national interest of his country in this matter. it is not illegal in the eu, but there is still a long way to go to clean coal.
in writing. i thank the rapporteur for the comprehensive presentation of the diversity and the main problems of the cultural industry in the report. when considering the role of the cultural industries in european society, two basic points of departure must be borne in mind. first, we must understand the importance of culture to the quality of human life. cultural products increase well-being. the community recognises the fundamental cultural rights of europeans, which include the right to a culture of humanity. so we are dealing with fundamental civil rights. secondly, we must understand the importance of culture to its producers. for many cultural figures, work is not only a passion but also a means of earning a living. the right to adequate remuneration for one's own work is a fundamental right. it is up to the legislator to ensure an environment in which no one's rights are infringed. there is no cultural production without creators, and if the work is not paid, the growth of the cultural industry is limited. the legislation on the cultural sector, such as the protection of copyright, related rights and industrial property rights, is therefore always a matter of balancing the two social dimensions of culture. it requires a special sensitivity on the part of the legislator. it must be recognised that the cultural industry is a specific sector and therefore requires a specific legal status. the most significant challenge facing the cultural industry is, of course, information technology. the cultural industry benefits from the development of technology and information markets, but at the same time needs protection in the new systems. the commission needs to take urgent action to clarify the relationship between intellectual property and culture and the economy. the key challenge is how to ensure that every rightholder and cultural industry is fairly and genuinely compensated for the work done, while ensuring that consumers have a choice and easy access to cultural goods.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the lewandowski report expresses a moderate position on the size of parliament's budget. the social democrats and the greens have been unsuccessful in their attempts to introduce changes to the looser use of money. the position taken in the report on the european historical heritage project is correct in stating that it is not for parliament to finance it, even though it is the idea of the current president. we do not support the people's party's amendment on this issue. the report also takes a position on the commission's budget. it is noted that its administrative expenditure does not include the more than 2 000 employees outsourced to the agencies. these administrative expenditure are excluded from the total amount of which 20% is charged to parliament. parliament cannot outsource its activities in the same way, but must also pay the support of the pan-european political parties from its own budget.
mr president, mitigation is of course the most important part of combating climate change, but we are in a situation where we must also find ways of adapting. it is quite right to say that we need a pan-european framework for our adaptation policy, which coordinates common objectives, the most ambitious objectives possible, and sets the direction for cooperation. however, it must also be remembered that, as has been said here, the means of adaptation are also very local and very regional, so that the decision to use the means must be at the regional level. we already know a great deal about what we should do to be able to adapt better to the future, to adapt our way of life better to changed circumstances. for example, we already have building technologies available for buildings that do not consume energy but instead produce energy. it is quite incomprehensible that we have not yet made any progress in this area, because it is a relatively easy question. we also know that climate change will affect the living conditions of our citizens. we have already experienced heat waves and the resulting high mortality rates in various member states. various communicable diseases may also increase, and these diseases may occur in places where they are not present at present. our health care system must be able to respond to all of this by making health care available to all citizens.
in writing. mr president, climate change is a fact. few people question the findings of the panel of scientists. the dispute concerns the impact assessment and the content of the conclusions. environmentalists have been joined by heads of state, heavy-duty experts, business leaders and investors. environmental awareness and environmental business have a crucial role to play in meeting environmental challenges. in finland, we have the perception that investing in wood, pellets, biofuels, wind and solar energy is shark-baiting or imposture. california is a tough state to get solar, wind and bioenergy. where all the smart investors and money players are investing in renewables. environmental business is a major growth area for internationalisation and an important employer. there's never been a better opportunity for corporations to make money doing good. the global market for environmental businesses is worth €600 billion. the market is growing at 10% a year. clean technologies are the fastest growing. for example, solar and wind technologies are growing at 30 percent a year. clean technology companies create products and services with a lower environmental impact than before. clean technology combined with renewable energy sources will create a healthier environment and reduce health risks. beijing's air quality is so bad that researchers have estimated that it will shorten the life expectancy of beijingers by seven years. the poor air quality in brussels is cutting life expectancy by seven months. so a bad environment is a health risk. climate change is also an opportunity to create new jobs, new green jobs, the it sector is moving jobs to asia, green technology can create new jobs for finns.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i understand that the greens wanted to make an amendment to this, but the aim of this amendment is to include the last part of amendment no 8 in this amendment, so that it does not disappear from the text. the voting list also states that amendment no 8 will be replaced by amendment no 14. the intention is not to replace it, but to include in this report the final part which begins with the words 'in addition to the short-term development costs'.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the voting list also states that amendment no 8 will be replaced by amendment no 14. the intention is not to replace it, but to include in this report the final part which begins with the words 'in addition to the short-term development costs'.
mr president, i propose as an oral amendment that amendment 15 should not replace the original paragraph 51, but be added to that paragraph. i understand that the rapporteur agrees with this oral amendment.
mr president, one in three road deaths in europe is caused by drunk driving. on saturday night, at least nine finnish tourists were killed and 19 seriously injured when a drunk driver in a prominent hit a bus carrying them in his suv. adding to the seriousness of the accident was the fact that many passengers were not wearing the seat belts on the bus. the european union must give serious thought to how to avoid these shocking events and these completely unnecessary victims in the future. currently, the limit values within the eu range from zero to 0.8 ppm. the permi­lar limits should be made uniform in all eu countries and as close to zero as possible. the rules on the use of seat belts must also be respected, with adequate instructions to drivers and adequate penalties for failure to do so.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, the rapporteur, ms jutta haug, represents a high level of technical expertise and professionalism in her work. our group supports the report's call for solidarity within the union and a balance between regional development and wants to increase budgetary transparency and clarity. it is important to pay attention to the mid-term review of the budgetary framework for the coming years in 2009, even if the results of the new negotiations do not yet affect the budget for the next year. our group has traditionally pointed out that the union budget lacks the instruments for building the social dimension of the eu. that is one of the reasons why we have not been able to adopt the final budget proposals in december. in addition to the lack of a social dimension, our group sees a continuation of the process of militarization of the union if the lisbon treaty is adopted. it adds new elements to the union's activities, security and defence policy and permanent structured cooperation. we see how the council is constantly proposing new appropriations for the union budget and parliament is ready to approve them. the desire to include the athens financial mechanism in the common budget is reflected in the determination with which the council is moving towards the militarisation of the union and in the consistency with which it is calling for an increase in military appropriations. we also note that next year's budget does not contain a clear budget line for the amount of expenditure incurred by kosovo on the union and the method of payment. there are unforeseen costs to be incurred by some member states. this is the promotion of the state autonomy of a unique ethnic community on a european scale.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr jutta haug, for her excellent work and cooperation. he is a true professional and i am sure that this budget, which is at an important stage, will be brought to a happy end at the end of the year if this cooperation is continued. 2009 is an election year, is our budget open enough, so that we can win back the trust of the citizens when the elections come in 2009? at the same time, however, we are preparing for the post-lisbon period, and we must certainly prepare for this new period, for example in the field of foreign policy, and for the way in which parliament, also in the budgetary field, shows that it is willing to be involved in the making of a new kind of foreign policy. i would like to say one important thing as we continue to prepare this budget. i hope that the commission's approach will become an initiative which the rapporteur can then follow up. it's about the baltic strategy. i have heard that the commission is preparing a baltic sea strategy and i have also heard that sweden, during its presidency, intends to put the baltic sea strategy at the top of its priorities. this strategy is meaningless if it has no resources whatsoever. we have a lot of different pilot projects going on now, here and there. the whole baltic sea policy is a speck, both financially and politically. that is why we need a separate heading called the baltic sea strategy, so that we can have the right environmental policy, the right transport policy and even an energy policy, when we know that the baltic sea is going to be a gas pipeline from russia to germany. that is why we need this initiative and i hope that the commission will take the initiative.
in writing. mr president, the most important thing in the study of history is what is known, the facts. the more facts that come to light, the better. the interpretations are always separate. everyone should be free to investigate and interpret what happened, that's part of freedom of speech. political history can rarely be symmetrical in content, but it must be striven for. there's still a lot of recent history that's not been studied, partly because of political correctness. dictators and dictators are treated very differently. the crimes of the nazis deserve no sympathy, but neither should communism be given bonus points.
in writing. to promote the safety of europeans, cooperation between border control authorities, customs, police and security authorities must be promoted. the aim of the prüm agreement is to deepen cooperation between eu countries to combat terrorism, crossborder crime and illegal immigration. the prüm agreement will strengthen the internal security of europe. the smooth exchange of information between security authorities, in particular border control authorities, will be a key element. there must be a strong rationale for exchanging information between eu countries. it is clear that the infringement is already a justified reason for the exchange of information and sufficient evidence to suggest a future infringement. the protection of the privacy of law-abiding europeans must be respected in the exchange of information, so that human rights violations do not take place through the violation of privacy. security cooperation aims to keep europe a safe place to live and to protect its law-abiding citizens. security cooperation must protect europeans from lawbreakers so that our daily lives are as safe as possible, so that our children can live without fear.
the rapporteur. - mr president, mr vice-president of the commission margot wallström, mr ombudsman nikiforos diamandouros, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank all the parties for the excellent cooperation during the preparation of this report. it was not easy to reach an agreement that satisfied all parties, and i understand that there are still some amendments to be made, but we have reached a unanimous agreement in committee. it's good to be moving on. the ombudsman's work was therefore concerned with four issues: access to documents, the role of officials as witnesses, information on criminal cases and cooperation in human rights matters. the european ombudsman's original proposal also included a fifth item, the ombudsman's powers to intervene, but this proposal was controversial and at the end of the discussions the ombudsman indicated that he wished to withdraw it. the most important change concerns the obligation of the eu institutions and bodies to grant the ombudsman access to confidential information and sensitive documents, where this is necessary for the ombudsman's work. until now, the institutions have had the right to refuse to provide information. now the matter comes under objective consideration and is no longer subject to subjective or arbitrary consideration. this is an important, if small, step forward. institutions or bodies supplying confidential information or documents shall inform the ombudsman of the confidentiality. in addition, for the implementation of the provisions, the ombudsman may agree with the institutions concerned on the conditions for the communication of confidential information or other information covered by professional secrecy. the role of the european ombudsman has become increasingly important over the years for the institutions of the european union and for the citizens of europe. the treaty of lisbon makes the eu's fundamental rights instrument legally binding, which makes the ombudsman's role even more important. in future, more attention will have to be paid to ensuring that the ombudsman has adequate resources, that his rules of procedure are modern, that he receives the necessary information and that officials must give him the correct information. the charter of fundamental rights provides that every citizen has the right to have his or her case dealt with impartially, fairly and within a reasonable time by the institutions and bodies of the union. the resources must therefore be secured in such a way that citizens do not have to wait for years for decisions and that they can also rely on the ombudsman to have sufficient information and that officials tell what they know and not what they want. otherwise we cannot talk about the principles of the rule of law - even though the eu is not a state - which we so happily talk about. we must also respect the rule of law ourselves, and then we can expect something from others.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank you again for the good cooperation and i hope that in this final stage of the audit we will find the words to express the fact that confidence is increased through legislation, that there are sufficient resources and that the necessary information can be provided to the ombudsman. if this does not happen, it is - as i said - bad for the rule of law and for transparency, but i believe that a common view will be found, because there is now room for a small cut.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs and the chairman of the committee on budgetary control for their good work. there are 30 discharge notices pending for 2006. the most important of these is the commission's discharge, which covers some 97% of the eu budget. the remaining reports concern the other eu institutions and the individual agencies. i think that the european parliament's approach to discharge should be developed. the committee on budgetary control cannot be the court of auditors, much less the court of auditors. it is physically impossible for it to be able to inspect in detail the administration and accounting of 30 units. parliament must have confidence in the expertise and the opinions of the authorities. the court of auditors, internal control and olaf are the most important of these. the very detailed handling of accounts and administration leads only to an apparent accuracy which does not add to reliability. the quality of the discharge procedure is not directly proportional to the number of reports produced. on the contrary, when parliament grants a discharge to an individual agency, for example, it may be too strong an assurance that the accounts and administration have been properly managed. if parliament is to play a genuine role in the discharge process, it must reform its working methods. otherwise the committee on budgetary control will be swamped with work.
mr president, under the leadership of vice-president siim kallas, good work has been done to increase the transparency and openness of the european union's accounts. the requirement to disclose eu agricultural aid is particularly noteworthy. in my home country of finland, however, national aid is twice as high as eu aid. unfortunately, in this respect, the information on the recipients of eu subsidies does not tell the whole truth about agricultural subsidies. under pressure from the creation of the committee on budgetary control, the commission has improved its control of accounts and has promised to be more active in recovering aid paid on the wrong basis. similarly, the quality of information on the financing of external actions has improved, thanks to the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs. i hope that in future we will also follow a strict line in the monitoring of the pan-european political parties and their rules, contrary to what we can sometimes conclude from the behaviour of this parliament.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would ask you to submit to parliament the following procedure, which was agreed unanimously by the coordinators of the committee on the treaties at their meeting on 31 march. the vote to be taken now should be regarded as a vote on the draft resolution only, with the vote on the motion for a resolution being postponed until the commission has delivered its opinion and the council has given its approval. the president of parliament shall formally forward the text of the draft resolution adopted by parliament to the commission and the council for examination in accordance with article 195 of the ec treaty and shall finally request the committee on the treaties to establish the necessary contacts with the council and the commission and to report to parliament in good time on the progress of the matter.
in writing. - i could not vote for paragraph 65 of the report by mr pomés ruiz, a6-0091/2008, because it does not define the relationship more precisely. if the text had prohibited the employment of a 'family member', i think paragraph 65 would have been better justified and more acceptable.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the energy sector is facing a very serious ethical challenge. energy and bread are now opposites. it's the stark, stark difference between well-being and ill-being. as a result of speculation, the price of grain is virtually tied to the price of oil. the higher it is, the more grain is also used as fuel unless we do something about it. now only a few percent of the grain is used to produce biofuel, but that share is increasing. the oecd and the un estimate that if the price of oil is at $56 the production of grain for food will decrease by a couple of percent and the price of grain, or food, will rise by about 10 percent. what if the price of oil goes up permanently to the $100 level that it is now? we urgently need international standards and agreements to stop the rise in food prices and the shift from bread to grain to the fuel of the streetcar. there are many threatening generalizations, but the good news is that russia is preparing to supply europe with competitive renewable energy. it means hydropower, the use of water resources and a large biomass forest, not a small one, but the largest in the world.
mr president, i do not believe that the poor people in the developing world will do better if we allow market forces to operate more freely in the food market, as has been suggested here. global capitalism itself is heading for at least a moral crisis if the food crisis turns out to be the result of stock market speculation. this is a discussion of biofuels and their competition with land for food production. it has already been shown here that this competition has not been very great, at least for the time being. nevertheless, this problem must be analysed in detail, but no hasty conclusions should be drawn. we need renewable fuels, but not in a way that takes up space from food production. countries and research institutions are already spending large sums of money on research into second and third generation biofuels. these fuels don't compete with food production. it is estimated that in just a few years, the next generation of fuels will be on the market. there is no reason to impede research in this area and therefore clear sustainability criteria for biofuels and the sustainable production of second and third generation biofuels are needed.
in writing. the three negative decisions of the court of justice from the point of view of the trade union movement, which are the basis for further case-by-case judgments in the same series, are to be expected. the cases viking line, vaxholm (laval) and rüffert all involved the court's interpretation of the union's agreements from one single point of view, that of freedom of competition, without regard to the will of parliament. the proposal for the inclusion of the conditions of employment of posted workers in the terms of employment of the sending country was specifically rejected in the context of the so-called bolkestein directive. unfortunately, in these specific decisions, the court has assumed the role of legislator rather than interpreting the will of the true legislator, the european parliament. the commission should not defend such an infringement of the institution's powers.
in writing. the report by mr gomes is the most appropriate way of addressing this major challenge for international cooperation. i would like to thank ana gomez again for her foresight. on the one hand, africa seems to have benefited economically from its close relations with china: the economic pull of africa's most important trading partner, along with europe, has reduced poverty. china speaks of africa not as a burden but as an opportunity, full of economic potential. on the other hand, it has become clear that there are deeply worrying features in china's position in africa. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement. europe is the only country that recognizes that the passions have neo-colonial characteristics. it is legitimate to ask whether economic power is being used to promote the obsession with great power. this is seen in darfur, for example. the second question is how the eu should respond. china is europe's competitor in many african countries, and many colleagues have said that lecturing is not helpful in the face of a self-confident rising power. the report has wisely chosen a constructive approach. we must distinguish between this and our task of reminding china of the obligations inherent in the partnership; there must be a common effort to achieve the millennium development goals, to prevent conflicts and to ensure sustainable development. the eu is also working to develop a common approach to climate change, with the aim of reducing emissions from the use of fossil fuels and the use of fossil fuels in the transport sector. finally, it must be acknowledged that china does not share european views on respect for human rights, and that we must therefore make an even more vigorous effort to ensure that sustainable democracy, the rule of law and good governance take root in africa. the final solution to the china challenge when you're not in china. it's in africa itself.
mr president, a genetically modified cereal has been bred by altering its genetic heritage through the use of precise scientific technology. this technology is based on more than half a century of advances in genetics. it has enabled the breeding of varieties that require less labor, use less pesticides, and yield higher yields. hence, the cultivation of these has increased rapidly. the european union has not kept pace with developments because of its strict bureaucratic control. although scientific tests and research by the european food safety authority have shown the variety to be completely safe and affordable for the consumer, its approval requires a wide-ranging process. the commission proposal is first submitted to the standing committee, which adopts or rejects it by a qualified majority. if it is unable to take a decision, the next step is the council, and if it is unable to take a decision, the proposal is sent back to the committee, which finally takes a decision, but time is running out. the european union imports a large amount of gm feed. it is also used with pleasure in countries where efforts are being made to restrict the cultivation of gm varieties. as the eu has not had time to accept all the varieties already in use elsewhere, there may be small residues of these in feed. then the whole imported goods will be returned. this is costly for the sector and affects the competitiveness of european food production. so there should be some moderation in this respect too. the very small residues of varieties accepted in other countries should not lead to such disproportionate penalties, especially since european agriculture is in any case faced with global competition.
the author. - mr president, as the resolution shows, there is an attempt to silence women's rights advocates in iran by force. they have been arrested, interrogated, and sentenced to prison, some even threatened with stoning. the activities of ngos have been made very difficult and freedom of expression and assembly has been restricted. in early january, zanan, a magazine that advocated equality, was also shut down in iran. it is also worrying that iran has still not ratified the un convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. iranian human rights lawyer mehrangiz kar has stated that iran's legal system is incompatible with the un convention on the rights of women, as the iranian constitution cannot be contrary to islamic sharia law. however, most muslim countries have ratified the un convention on the rights of women. the question arises whether the iranian decision-makers and authorities believe that politically active and socially critical women are a real threat to iranian society. these brave and resilient women have tremendous power to bring about change. it is important that the eu shows its support for these iranians fighting for their basic human rights.
for the ppe-de group mr president, the resolution well highlights two aspects of the crisis that both the local government and the international community should focus on. firstly, the humanitarian crisis is widespread and aid agencies on the ground have long reported an increasing number of internally displaced persons. the poor security situation in the refugee camps, widespread sexual violence and the difficulty of delivering food aid have made the situation even more critical. secondly, there are severe restrictions on freedom of expression and many journalists have been forced to leave chad for fear of arrest. supporters of the political opposition have been threatened and disappeared. this is often overshadowed by the humanitarian crisis, although its resolution could be an important step towards a more stable policy. the real solution will of course require strong political will and major concrete action, but equally important is the need to invest in the children of chad and their future, by working effectively to prevent their recruitment into armed rebel groups and by investing in their primary education, including human rights education.
in writing. when finland joined the ec, it was after a referendum. in this context, the political elite promised the people a new referendum if finland gave up its own money (mark). the promise was betrayed - unlike in sweden - and many finns would like their money back. the euro has been a success in that a traveller can use the same currency in all emu countries and compare prices. the tourist fund is not the essence of emu, however, but the common monetary policy. it has not been a similar success story, and this is due to the large size of the euro area and the differences in economies. first, a devaluation of one third against the dollar was implemented, followed by a revaluation of two thirds. the impact of emu should also be assessed in terms of the common interest rate policy, which has resulted in a housing bubble in many countries.
in writing. human rights are at the heart of the union's common foreign and security policy. human rights issues are also security policy issues. when we strengthen human rights, we strengthen security. by strengthening human rights in the world, we also strengthen security in europe. new challenges, such as climate change and its associated desertification and food shortages, are threats to human security and human rights. the emphasis on human rights should not be confined to political rights but should also include the right to clean food and water, which are of the most concrete importance in people's daily lives. when the basic things are in order, people are also more likely to vote for moderate political representatives and to demand the realization of political rights. the lasting foundation of human rights is built on the ideals of democracy and freedom, as well as social and economic justice. the human rights report highlights gandhi and the policy of non-violent resistance he represented. human rights and freedom are not promoted by means of war and violence. the means must be consistent with the values embodied in human rights. by promoting human rights, we promote security. human rights are not just a means to achieve other political ends. human rights are a value in themselves. human rights are universal values. the eu must therefore strengthen its human rights policy. human rights are not an island apart from other policies, as the human rights report rightly points out.
in writing. i would like to thank marco cappato for a broad and comprehensive report which rightly calls for a more coherent eu human rights policy and more effective means of monitoring its impact. the union still has a long way to go in developing a clear, coherent and more far-reaching policy in this area. we must not only support but demand respect for human rights both within the eu and in its external relations. as the capatto report emphasizes, for example, women's rights should be closely integrated into all eu human rights dialogues. the report takes full account of the important role of parliament in eu human rights policy, for example as a regular visitor to the urgency debates. the urgent resolutions resulting from these discussions have highlighted important shortcomings in policies that are grossly abusive to human dignity, both in relation to individuals and to wider crises. however, in order to make the debate more coherent and to improve monitoring, parliament's delegations should now also include monitoring discussions on the human rights situation more systematically on the agenda of visits to these countries. finally, the right allocation of funding is essential for the functioning and results of the eu's human rights policy. the strength of the eidhr, the instrument for democracy and human rights, is its ability to direct funds directly and rapidly to acute situations and difficult situations. it is important that these funds also be directed as effectively as possible to the work of local human rights organisations. new ways of using the financial instrument should be explored in the case of countries where ngo activities are illegal.
for the alde group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in the power of the european parliament as a result of the lisbon treaty is putting pressure on the european parliament to increase the transparency of its legislative work. transparency in eu action is paramount, i.e. citizens know who has influenced the content of legislation. the purpose of registration is not to restrict or complicate the work of the representatives. their work is important. however, the registration of current ombudsmen in the european parliament is more and above all a question of security than of transparency. the report by the committee on the treaties has changed considerably since the first drafts of the report by the previous rapporteur, the current finnish foreign minister, alexander stubb. i am particularly pleased, and my group is also particularly pleased, that the wording of the report is now much stronger than at the beginning and that the compulsory registration advocated by my group is being implemented, because it creates a level playing field. i would like to refer to amendment no 3, which has already been discussed here. some of my group support it, but as the present rapporteur has said, i personally agree with him that the churches are not the stewards. my group has two views on this and will probably vote in two ways. the report by the committee on the treaties suggests that the rapporteur may attach to his report a list of the representatives of the interests consulted during the preparation of the report. i hope that this principle will be adopted as an official practice in the future. it would force the rapporteurs to listen to different views on an equal footing. it could also reveal if some people are eating right out of each other's hands.
for the alde group mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr manolis mavrommatis, for his excellent work and commitment to this report. i would like to begin by saying that i think it is very important that, in the implementation of the white paper, the guidelines for sport in europe, which is based on the general interest and on voluntary ideology, remain a priority. it is also very important that this document should express our respect for the specific characteristics of sport, self-regulation and structured dialogue, and that we should thereby seek to establish guidelines for the application of european union legislation in sport. the link between sport, physical activity and public health is also very important. at the moment, in europe, one of the problems we are trying to combat is metabolic syndrome, second-degree diabetes and obesity. with the health movement, we can best combat this problem. secondly, it is necessary to take account of the importance for the european sports movement of preserving national gambling systems. they must be looked after, because they have created a unique opportunity to finance amateur sports, but also culture, science and research. so other sectors of society have also benefited from sport. this must be borne in mind in the future. thirdly, i would like to say that the lisbon treaty will give sport a greater legal base. preparing for this new situation also requires the planning of a pilot programme and budget lines for 2009 already. we must put words into action, including in the field of sport. all in all, this document has a lot to offer. i would also like to thank commissioner jan figeli and in particular the great sportsman manolis mavrommatis, who has done a pioneering job in promoting sport in european culture and society.
in writing. sport is competition, but eu competition law is not applicable to it. in order to preserve the specific nature of sport, it must continue to be given the opportunity to regulate itself in accordance with the best traditions of each sport. as legislators, we must enact laws that ensure that politicians and judges stay as far away from sports as possible. this apparently contradictory requirement is presented in this report in a more coherent way than in the commission's white paper. it is important for the popular movement and grassroots activity in european sport that member states are allowed to maintain national betting systems, which are an essential part of the specific nature of european sport. it is also easier to combat gambling addiction in countries where the state has a monopoly. in all sports, professional sport and the businesses built around it benefit from voluntary unpaid citizen action and public funding. parliament must play its part in ensuring that the social foundations of sport are not undermined by market forces.
mr president, i should like to say a few words about the mavromatis report. i voted for it and i think it is very good. i think it is very good that it recognises the specific nature of sport and in particular that it takes account of special groups, including the disabled. i agree with mr beazley and i do not fully understand the logic of my friend mr heaton-harris on this, because through this name alone we can ensure that special groups and disabled people are treated equally. the health movement is one of the main priorities of this report. sport has also proved to be a very effective means of combating racism and xenophobia. i would also like to point out that my voting machine did not work in all respects, and in particular at point 42 i did not get it to work properly. i hope technology will explain why my voting machine was stuck for a while. i noticed that others had the same problems, and i want to send a message to the technicians that i hope the machine will work perfectly next time.
in writing. - mr president, i voted against the group's line on amendment no 12 to paragraph 94 of the cappatto report, which would remove the concept of 'reproductive and sexual health'. although the term 'reproductive and sexual health' also includes abortion, which i do not support as an absolute right, i think it is necessary to mention it in this context. paragraph 94 recalls that the european union's development and human rights policy must give priority to health programmes, including those on reproductive and sexual health, where gender-based violence is widespread and women and children are vulnerable to hiv/aids infections or are denied access to information and prevention and/or treatment.
in writing. - mr president, it is a pity that amendment no 7, proposed by my group on its behalf, was not adopted. the amendment would have been essential to understand the scale of the debate on lobbying, not only as a reminder to the commission but also to a wider audience. a good example of this is environmental organizations, whose resources are often compared to those of industry, but in a very strange way: the budget of a single organization's forestry campaign has been compared to the total budgets of all the forestry companies, for example. this is to forget that forestry companies cannot spend all their money on communications, their real business is processing wood. it would be more reasonable to compare the communication budgets of companies, but even that would have to be excluded from the stock exchange information which takes up resources. and on the other side, you should count all the money that environmental organizations spend on forestry campaigns. so when we look a little bit deeper, the resources that we have are revealed to be much more equal than we often imagine.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur, mr lewandowsk, for his excellent work and i would like to draw attention to a few points. the system of assistants: i support what the rapporteur has said. he says that this is an important issue and that it must be resolved by this report at the latest. and then there's the asbestos problem that we've been talking about here. before any funding is granted, it must be ascertained who is responsible, how much money is actually needed and there must be a clear plan for how to proceed. it is quite clear that we cannot work in a building that suddenly has asbestos in it after we have bought it for ourselves. i would also like to point out that there has been a long discussion about emas, but there are no clear plans in this respect. i would also hope that the majority in this house has clearly decided that the administration will make a proposal to invest in more environmentally friendly vehicles - the ones we use every day here - and there are still no plans in this respect either.
mr president, i accept in principle this lewandowski report, but we shall vote in absentia because parliament's budget will be voted on in its final form in the autumn and parliament's first draft budget is incomplete. in our experience, it is being refined in the autumn, and therefore we cannot yet comment on the final formulation, which will be presented in the autumn. i would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, mr rømer, for his excellent report, which has been very helpful in this respect. i agree with mr mulder's criticism of the strasbourg building programme, which is a fraud from our point of view if we are to be repaired with asbestos.
the rapporteur. - mr president, the report under consideration has been thoroughly discussed in committee, for which i thank my colleagues and above all the shadow rapporteurs from the other political groups. we have noted with good agreement the commendable effort made by the commission to keep consumer issues at the forefront of all policy areas. this continent cannot compete in the global market unless it can compete with each other in the internal market. the 27 national minimum markets must be combined to form the largest retail market in the world. a functioning internal market requires confidence-building measures for the benefit of consumers. strong and independent consumer organisations have an important role to play in enhancing consumer confidence. among the measures to build confidence, there is one which came to the fore in our discussions more strongly than others and which also caused the only disagreements mentioned. the question is whether consumers can have the means to claim compensation if something goes wrong. the report considers that a system of collective redress for consumers in crossborder disputes is necessary. commissioner kuneva has already promised to start thinking about what kind of crowdfunding system could work in europe. we in europe seem to have a broad consensus, at least on what it must not be. it must not resemble in substantial respects the us class action system, whose main beneficiaries are lawyers rather than consumers. in europe we must strive for a system where claims are directly linked to the actual damage. in this way, the distribution of justice would not be punitive in nature but would be fair to the consumer. collective redress would therefore not give consumers new rights but ensure that existing rights can be used to the best possible effect. the conservatives as a group have been reluctant to push the idea of a class action. the reason given is that the commission has already promised to start preparing proposals on this subject. but it is precisely the european parliament that is the political decision-maker elected by the european citizens, whose majority will must be made visible. we have both the right and the duty to think and to propose to the commission new and detailed solutions to the problems which citizens have experienced. i have suggested that the commission should examine the usefulness of establishing a special office of consumer ombudsman for crossborder cases under the commission. this high official could, in accordance with certain national models, act as a gatekeeper, a sort of selective authority, when implementing legal remedies. i hope that the report, with its compromises, will receive the widest possible support.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. − mr president, i would like to welcome the commission communication, as well as the report of mr lehtinen as both are overall very balanced pieces of work. moreover, they rightly bring out an important notion that must be addressed at eu level – consumer policy is and must be part of the internal market. this leads me to what the committee on economic affairs has rightly brought into the report: completing the internal market is in itself great consumer policy. eu-wide competition brings prices down and increases quality and consumer choice. the eu-wide access to consumers to these choices must be asserted. in an internal market, consumers are drivers of the market economy and can, through their choices, protect their own interests. therefore, the consistent implementation of existing directives regarding the internal market is of paramount importance. the committee on economic affairs’ opinion correctly highlights two areas that are of particular importance in this respect. first, financial services: a real internal market in banking, loans, insurance etc. is needed to empower european consumers. this is especially pressing as democratic developments are making best possible investment services increasingly relevant to all. big hurdles remain to be overcome here. second, e-commerce. this is linked to functioning financial markets and conditioned by the development of payment systems, but it is also important to practically all aspects of the internal market as the internet offers a real european marketplace. so we must make sure that european e-commerce really functions and consumers have right choices there.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues who spoke here tonight and, of course, commissioner kuneva for her constructive attitude that we have become familiar with since she came into office. i have a couple of remarks. mrs kauppi mentioned financial services. the growing area of cross-border banking, insurance sales and wealth management which has some very sophisticated instruments is a growing problem. the rules still confuse consumers even at a national level. so i think that in this area we need a cross-border collective redress system as well, because it will make financial institutions more responsible and careful when they explain the rights and risks to the customer. we all know the sad figures that tell us how citizens in member states are afraid of buying goods and services across borders, which is completely due to a lack of confidence. but i trust that, when we proceed in the good mood in which we have discussed this report among ourselves and with the commission, we can only succeed in building more confidence among european consumers.
, in writing. equal opportunities and non-discrimination in the eu equal opportunities and non-discrimination in working life are fundamental principles of working life which member states should have no difficulty in respecting. the liz lynne report, however, shows that the directives are not being implemented in an effective and consistent manner. the problem is significant because, as the lynne report states, the fight against discrimination and human rights are among the priorities of the european union under article 13 of the ec treaty. an example from finland is that of a woman who was unable to obtain unemployment benefit after she had stopped caring for her disabled son. it is wrong that home care is not valued and that the regulations allow this kind of discrimination. in the case referred to above, i support paragraph 36 of the lynne report, which states that the scope of the principles of equality and non-discrimination should be broad, including social security. i also agree with mr lynne that the european parliament should recommend that member states devote more resources and powers to the institutions which work to promote the above principles. i also support mr lynne's call for the ngos to be given a better role so that they too can tackle the problems that member states are currently facing more effectively and efficiently.
rapporteur. − mr president, in amendment 3 i have been told that there is some confusion over the french text. the words ‘as appropriate’ have not been properly translated into french. i would just like to ask if this could be checked afterwards by experts.
mr president, commissioner, thank you for your excellent work, and thank you to mr blokland. the green paper on improving shipbreaking, which we are now holding in our hands, is a serious illustration of the global imbalance created by industrial development, the negative effects of which have finally been addressed by many different actors. the responsibility of the industrialized countries has been rightly emphasized in situations where the pursuit of economic advantage has caused unsustainable social and environmental damage to developing countries. the negative effects of piracy are particularly pronounced. with the increase in environmental, health and safety standards in industrialized countries, most of the world's ocean-going vessels are scrapped in bangladesh, pakistan and india, often in very crude conditions. the dismantling plants have little regard for health or environmental standards, and toxic substances such as asbestos are handled in shorts and sandals as workwear. the use of child labour is also common. it's a tricky equation. shipbreaking is a profitable activity for the countries concerned, not only because of its employment impact and financial benefits, but also in terms of raw material supply. for example, bangladesh receives 80 to 90% of its steel dismantled. at the same time, low labour costs and a lack of basic standards make it economically attractive, leading in practice to environmental pollution and great human tragedy. however, increasing unprofitable scrapping through subsidies is not a sustainable alternative in the eu. rather, the aid should be directed directly to developing countries engaged in scrapping, which would multiply the environmental and social benefits. after partial dismantling or cleaning, ships are virtually unseaworthy and, for example, after asbestos removal, most ships cannot be moved. therefore, support measures should focus on the creation of certified scrappage facilities using scrappage technology that is in line with the western approach to environmental and safety. a global list of pre-approved discharge stations for shipping companies would be established and imo would have a key role in certifying them, so that the system would be truly international. that's how the equation works. the economic and material benefits of scrapping are needed by developing countries, and the shipyards in industrialized countries are under increasing pressure to change this.
mr president, the knowledge of climate change is well established and recognized throughout the world, and there is no real scientific doubt about the human contribution to the current global warming. this is what mr florenz says in his own report at the beginning of its conclusions. the reason for drawing up this interim report was precisely to provide a common basis for the final report. the work of the committee and parliament must be firmly anchored in the ipcc fourth assessment report. there is a very clear consensus in this ipcc report that we need to stabilize the global average temperature to no more than two degrees. this will also take account of the economic, ecological and social impacts of climate change. the facts are on the table, as florenz said. now it's a matter of how we understand what we read, what our inner capacity is. it will be seen later this year when we look at the package of legislation which the commission has given us. i would particularly like to stress that in terms of the ecological, economic and social impact of climate change, we need to focus even more on energy efficiency. i hope that in future action the commission will highlight in particular the possibilities for increasing energy efficiency. as energy savings are the cheapest form of energy, they are also the best way of combating climate change from an ecological point of view, and i hope that the commission will come forward with new proposals and new impulses.
mr president, man is the cause of climate change and therefore man can also influence the other direction. the eu's objective is to increase the share of biofuels in transport to 10%. that is a goal which must also be achieved. in order to achieve this objective, all means must be used, including the use of peat as a raw material for biodiesel. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. for example, according to some studies, the energy production of pulses is up to 15 times higher per hectare than that of grapes, palm oil and soybeans, so more research is needed on this and, among other things, we can reduce the use of palm oil and hopefully also stop it altogether, because it is in no way an environmentally friendly activity. so we need to take action together with the us, china, india and russia.
, in writing. mr president, our resolution on the scientific facts on climate change contains a number of important points which are easy to agree with. but it also contains some very irritating elements. the history of science has warning examples. as a philosopher, i don't see it as a harmless idea for politicians to interpret scientific results, straighten out their curves or even cherish them - let alone "judge" some interpretations. why is this need arising, why is it necessary to state such a thing? it's about our credibility, which we're going to need desperately to combat climate change. paragraph 5 states that the primary role of man is scientifically 'proven'. nowhere does the ipcc say that; it talks about probabilities. the human contribution to the warming of the last decade is a significant probability. paragraph 7 emphasises that scientific results 'clearly show how climate change will occur in the near future, following different regional patterns'. this is exactly what we don't know yet. last week, climate modelers in reading cited the need for supercomputers in their statement. the question of the regional impacts of climate change is beyond the reach of current climate science responses, partly because of insufficient computer capacity. in paragraph 8, the melting of the greenland and antarctic ice sheets is mentioned as a climate change tipping point. so far, the information on the melting of the ice sheet is very contradictory, as both the greenland and antarctic ice cores are becoming thicker. i would also not be blaming and condemning climate change sceptics or critics as has been done in paragraph 10. politicians in particular should not do this, but leave it to the scientific community to debate.
, in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the european union has been at the forefront of international actors in developing a climate policy that is more sustainable for the planet. this is the position the eu must maintain in the future. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for a very successful report. this report further strengthens the view of the scientific basis on which work to mitigate climate change must be based. it is worth noting that science and the knowledge it generates are constantly changing through new technologies and insights. we must therefore remain open to all information on the phenomenon and respect the diversity of opinions. it is of the utmost importance that we act decisively on climate change. each of the four ipcc climate panels to date has had to revise its predecessor's estimates of the rate at which climate change is progressing, outpacing previous community estimates. again, it seems that there is a need to revise the previous ipcc estimates. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'climate change' in the definition of the term 'climate change'. the eu should take into account the growing scientific consensus that to slow down global warming, co2 emissions should be cut more substantially than the ipcc recommended. in view of these developments, i fear that the eu's climate package is not ambitious enough. the union should already be investing much more decisively in the means of creating eco-efficient societies in the union. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the eu's energy policy. the ability to transform under the pressure of this revolution will also be the most important factor affecting the eu's international competitiveness.
, in writing. mr president, i thank the rapporteur for his balanced report. i think it sends a very honest and critical but at the same time positive and optimistic signal to turkey. it supports the reform efforts of turkey's progressive and moderate forces by clearly identifying the areas of society in which the country has made progress. it also expressed concern at the situation of freedom of expression, gender equality, the situation of the kurds and minorities and the use of violence by the authorities. it must be remembered that we are currently negotiating membership on the basis of the copenhagen criteria. if the country meets the criteria and meets the principles of the european rule of law, i see no reason why it should not join. the turkey that will perhaps join the eu in ten or twenty years' time will be a different turkey than it is today. if we really want a democratic, stable and peaceful turkey, we should not close the door to membership to it. let us not fall prey to cheap populism and xenophobia. a european turkey is not only in the interests of the eu and turkey, but also of the whole world. we have to give turk a chance.
, in writing. there is one particularly problematic paragraph in the report which reads in english as follows: 'welcomes the commission's proposals on consolidating the european market in defence equipment and improving the global competitiveness of the eu defence industry'. this means that the union which is being marketed in the name of peace is building its own military-industrial complex on the model of the united states. it is clear that this includes the galileo satellite positioning system, which has been fully financed by the union. and it is equally clear that the legal basis for all the militarization of the eu is the new constitution, the treaty of lisbon. the citizens are not told about these military interventions of the union, but the union is marketed as a civilian and peace project, which it is no longer. the union has the operational and quasi-legal capacity to conduct offensive operations, which are illegal under international law, with combat troops far beyond the eu's borders.
for the verts/ale group mr president, i would like to thank mr guido saccon for having produced a good result in the negotiations on this subject, as rapporteur for the report appointed by the committee on the environment. one of the biggest concerns of citizens in the run-up to the new eu chemicals legislation reach was that the new legislation would increase animal testing. there was full agreement among the political groups in the european parliament that legislation should be structured to do everything possible to minimise the number of animal experiments, including speeding up the introduction of alternative methods of testing as much as possible. we were very pleased to hear from ecvam that a number of alternative methods to animal testing had been scientifically validated. similarly, we were very shocked when it became clear that the commission was delaying the administrative approval of these same alternative methods. the discussions between the environment committee and the commission showed that the commission was going to wait for the approval of these tests throughout the oecd, where any country can torpedo the decision. the committee on the environment made it very clear to the commission that such a delay is unacceptable and we are prepared to use our veto under the new comitology procedure. i am very pleased that the ensuing negotiations between guido saccon, the rapporteur appointed by envi, and the commission have produced a good result and that the commission is now committed to accelerating the introduction of alternative methods in order to reduce animal testing and the suffering of animals associated with it. this letter from the commission, signed by mr dimas, mr verheugen and mr potočnik, has now been incorporated into the draft decision which parliament will adopt tomorrow. it is very important that the eu is prepared to take decisions itself if these processes are delayed in the oecd. even though we faced difficulties, the result is very fine.
mr president, we all know that janusz wojciechowski is only a formal question-bearer as chairman of the committee, and i am the multiannual rapporteur for the aarhus convention. i have come here on the heels of a very delightful parish party to speak on this subject, and i would like to say what i have to say. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. − i have been actively working on the aarhus convention since 2000, when we discussed the first pillar, the right of citizens to environmental information, and soon after the second pillar, the opportunities for citizens to participate in decision-making. when i met local environmental activists in kazakhstan, these western self-evidences took on a new dimension in my eyes. the aarhus convention is a major achievement in improving citizens' rights of participation and access to information and a part of a functioning democracy, and i therefore fully understand the position of our parliament that the missing element, the right of citizens to appeal, should also be restored. however, i sympathize with the council when they fear that civil rights in appeals will be misused to slow down projects or to give free rein to fundraising campaigns by ngos. the council's concern about the abuse of democracy is justified in this respect. but it is important to bring this issue back to the fore; the world and our society are constantly changing and political decisions must be made with the present in mind. it is for this reason that i welcome the point in our resolution for the meeting which calls for the aarhus convention to be extended to all the principles of sustainable development. in this way, the criteria of sustainable development are met through the principles of transparency, participation and accountability of the aarhus agreement. this is the idea behind the aarhus convention: it itself generates a broad proactive environmental awareness, especially among citizens, thus creating new opportunities to improve existing practices. the national meeting is a great opportunity for a mid-term review of the agreement and i am convinced that it is a good thing to continue on the same path.
mr president, i would do almost anything to serve this parliament, but even i have limits. i almost reached my limit yesterday evening when i put the aarhus convention debate ahead of asparagus consumption on the famous asparagus evening. i ‘deserted before dessert’, only to find the debate had been cancelled. my question is, are we allowed to attach our unused speeches to the minutes of the session, since the answer from the commissioner is there anyway?
for the ppe-de group mr president, belarus is the only country in europe which still has a totalitarian regime and which still uses the death penalty. president lukashenko refuses to relax his watchful eye and his firm grip on civil society. nevertheless, the government has expressed its desire to build closer relations with the eu. it is time we again set out clear criteria for cooperation with belarus. as stated in the resolution, abolition of the death penalty, freedom of the media, freedom of expression and assembly, freedom of religion, respect for democratic values and the immediate release of prisoners of conscience are the basic conditions for close cooperation within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. the resolution calls for the immediate release of the detained opposition representatives and is also a show of support and solidarity with all those suffering under the current regime in belarus. next week, representatives of the belarusian political opposition will come to parliament to ask for eu support for lukashenko's rejected call to amend a law restricting religious freedom that came into force in 2002. i hope that this important resolution and the debate next week together will make the belarusian government understand the interests of both itself and its citizens.
mr president, as we have heard, the 14 years of war in burundi have brought enormous numbers of internal refugees, food shortages and indiscriminate violence, even from those whose duty it is to protect the citizens. although the recent armed conflict has again made reconciliation more difficult and cast doubt on the credibility and political will of both sides to negotiate peace, it is also important to note the progress made. as a result of long and tough negotiations between several parties, the rebel forces have agreed to release a significant number of child soldiers, most recently in early may. burundi urgently needs the help of the eu member states to deal with the humanitarian crisis which the resolution calls for, and i therefore call on all my colleagues to support this resolution.
mr president, the emphasis in this report on human and civil rights is a good thing. energy security is also seen to play a significant role, in line with trends. the report condemns the use of energy as a political tool by third parties, mainly russia, and the signing of bilateral energy agreements by member states without eu coordination. the eu must therefore look in the mirror. russia cooperates directly with the eu member states, as the eu does not have a unified and coordinated energy policy. the question is whether the member states have the will to do so. the role of russia as an important and perhaps the most important energy partner of the eu must be recognised. energy cooperation between russia and the eu should aim at a win-win situation. i believe that with political will and by reducing prejudice, there is also a chance of achieving a win-win situation. russia and the eu must cooperate on energy policy, not oppose each other. now some circles, including in the eu, are seeking to reduce cooperation by means of a confrontation. russia has long wanted to be an equal partner with europe, so let them have it. we both know russia is not an easy negotiator. the eu's common foreign and security policy should be given greater influence in international politics. i strongly support parliament's call for the council to push for a permanent seat for the eu on the un security council. as long as the eu does not have this seat, it will be difficult to speak with one voice.
in writing. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her successful and multifaceted work. in line with the report, i consider it very important that the union's common foreign and security policy should in the coming years focus increasingly on developing structures and measures which will enable the union to respond more rapidly and effectively to international crises. civil crisis management, peacekeeping and the defence of human rights are the cornerstones of the cfsp. the lisbon treaty gives the eu's foreign policy a new protagonist, the high representative of the union. the changes brought about by the treaty will allow for a more effective and coherent foreign and security policy: the eu must speak and act more coherently on the world stage. however, i would hope that in its future annual reports parliament would take a stronger stand on the eu's more united and stronger role in the un. the eu is an economic and political superpower. building a world organisation that respects people and the environment must be the main mission of the union, which has grown in international importance over the years. the eu must make a significant contribution to the mediterranean, baltic and black sea regions in order to develop economic cooperation and promote political stability and democracy. the baltic sea strategy will require additional resources in the future to increase regional cohesion and to address environmental issues. supporting the black sea region and integrating it more closely into the eu's neighbourhood policy is a factor in enhancing political stability both in the eu and in the wider black sea region.
in writing. the lisbon treaty militarises the eu by supplementing the common foreign and security policy with a common security and defence policy. it makes it more difficult for non-aligned countries to maintain their military neutrality. it is when member states themselves commit themselves to increasing military equipment expenditure. it is when the eu is given a new military hard core: permanent structured cooperation. the preparation of this will begin during the french presidency. the saryusz-wolski report unfortunately advocates the militarization of the eu. the energy security considerations in the report are also very aggressive from poland's unilateral point of view.
for the alde group mr president, open dialogue and cooperation between the us and the eu is important. commissioner verheugen also stressed the need to cooperate with representatives of the congress. i too had the opportunity to attend a meeting of the eu-us delegation about a week ago, and this contact is important. there, as surely elsewhere, difficult issues are openly discussed, and both sides are certainly trying to run their own half of the world. these discussions have clearly shown that the us reference to security issues is very often a reference to protectionism in economic and trade matters. like mr wiersma, i too complain that the eu member states have not been treated equally and fairly in the visa field. when the us administration changes, it is hoped that the eu will be able to speak with one voice to the us on this issue and that the eu member states will then be treated in a uniform and equal manner. i would like to conclude by saying that we have now been able to follow the presentation of the us presidential elections here in europe and around the world. it does, in fact, give a very nice picture of the workings of american democracy. the eu could look in the mirror on this. this is where the elections to the top eu posts are discussed. it is not an open procedure, let alone a very democratic one, when these seats are being allocated before the elections. could you imagine that the most important administrative and political posts in the united states would be divided up before elections, as is done here at eu level? so yes, in many ways we can also learn from the united states, at least in these democratic matters.
in writing. mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to raise two issues that the eu should pay attention to at the summit. the global challenges we face require the west to be united and to take responsibility. first, the union should have a constructive debate on the role of the united states in climate policy. the world has a year and a half to change course before copenhagen. on the one hand, the united states must be encouraged to take the necessary climate legislation measures. it should be stressed that the solution to the global climate change problem is a global carbon economy. this requires the harmonisation and integration of the carbon market mechanisms of the different countries over time. the regional emissions trading systems in the united states are a source of hope. on the other hand, it is worth admitting that our partner has a better reputation for combating climate change. the eu must learn from, and acknowledge, the successful us competition for the development of clean technology. the union is well on its way to achieving these goals. the united states has been a pioneer in proposing the establishment of an international fund for environmentally friendly technology. eu-us cooperation is also important for achieving effective climate change adaptation. secondly, the summit should highlight the values on which we have built our foundations together: democracy, human rights, the rule of law. we must dare to ask how our values are being implemented in the politics of the western world. will the actions of world leaders stand the test of time, for example, in the fight against terrorism? as terrorism is a common threat to the eu and the us, the policy against it must also be subject to a common examination. sometimes in the rhetoric and everyday life of international politics, we seem to forget that our values are not primarily binding on others, but on ourselves, whether it be the middle east, the western balkans, africa...
in writing. − the eu's maritime policy is one of the most important initiatives for which the present commission will be remembered. this proposal for a council regulation on the protection of vulnerable marine ecosystems in the high seas from the adverse effects of bottom fishing gear is a necessary complement to the eu strategy. when the 2002 johannesburg summit on sustainable development set the goal of halting the loss of biodiversity, the backstop was 2010. we are sad to say that we will not be able to achieve this in two years' time. although environmental objectives have been high on the world's political agenda for more than two decades, a number of factors continue to threaten marine biodiversity. scientific research has shown that despite the profitability of deep-sea fishing, poorly organised fishing can lead to the extinction of some species in less than ten years. it is worth remembering that, while new approaches such as this are necessary in the fisheries sector, there is a dismal lack of knowledge about the recovery of deep-sea fish species and, overall, the threats to deep-sea ecosystems are much wider. however, this proposal for a regulation on fisheries is clear and necessary in its own right.
in writing. - i have been a member of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly since my first term. i think that the report by mrs hutchinson on the activities of the house of representatives in 2007 provides a comprehensive overview of both the progress made in the work of the last year and the challenges we have faced. i think it is a particularly positive change in the way we work that the standing committees are now also responsible for monitoring resolutions. this has enabled them to be followed up in a much more in-depth manner than in the more formal plenary sessions of the past. the conference of representatives has also played an important role in the follow-up to the economic partnership negotiations: the interaction between members of the parliament has contributed to the transparency of the process and to a better reflection of local realities. it is precisely the quality of its work that has made the ep, in my view, an important player in eu development cooperation. strengthening the parliamentary dimension and close monitoring will make it increasingly possible to direct eu funds directly to the needs of the population and to achieve the mdgs in areas such as health and education.
, in writing. – there are many reasons to mark the 40th anniversary of the customs union. the far-reaching abolishment of customs among the member states of the european union is without a doubt one of the most important achievements of the union. it has been of great benefit to both businesses and european consumers. a lot of responsibility is placed in the hands of the customs control officials on the external borders of the union. counterfeit products, illegal trade in drugs and other harmful substances and smuggling of endangered species or products are challenges met by the single market with ever fewer internal border controls. europe has one of the world's largest markets of counterfeit products. the existence and the trade volume of these products seriously violate intellectual property rights. more decisive measures to correct the situation should be identified and put into action. answering these challenges is above all a question of more harmonised and determined cooperation among the customs authorities of different member states. however, all in all, the development of the european single market has been an undeniable success and deserves to be celebrated as one of the key factors contributing to the wealth of the whole of the eu.
in writing. mr president,the first challenge of this legislative proposal is that it is our first attempt to set community-wide standards in the field of immigration policy. the creation of a new community-wide policy is a major effort. the european union is also committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. i agree with those who have stressed that the compromise proposal contains some delicate points, particularly from the point of view of fundamental and human rights. but as legislators we must look at the bigger picture: maintaining the status quo is by no means an option. first of all, this concerns the periods of detention. in many member states there are no time limits for detention. the criteria for taking back assets are also often not sufficiently regulated. secondly, many member states are imposing unlimited entry bans. for these reasons, many member states would like to see the compromise proposal and the whole legislative initiative fall by the wayside in our vote. the key point is that the directive puts return procedures under the community's monitoring mechanisms. this will enable us to ensure that certain minimum standards will soon be applicable to all member states. i thank the rapporteur, mr weber, for having succeeded in negotiating significant improvements in the council's position precisely to guarantee our humanitarian obligations. the amendments to protect children and families and minorities are particularly necessary.
in writing. - mr president, i had many reasons to support the compromise negotiated by mr jackson, and i would like to thank him for his great work. we have every reason to be pleased with this outcome, for too much waste is still being dumped. this is a pity at a time when europe is becoming aware of the importance of a resource and raw materials policy. on average, just under a third of european household waste is recycled or composted, about half ends up in landfills and just under a fifth is incinerated. in some eu member states, up to 90% of household waste ends up in landfills. quantitative targets for recycling are needed, while at the same time we must put an emphasis on waste prevention. i would like to stress, however, that there is also a need to make a strong effort to improve energy use. it is time to put an end to the erroneous logic that waste recovery should not be developed because it will increase waste generation. when, as a result of this logic, the landfill practically grows, it has already shown its weaknesses. i therefore have to admit that i supported the council's line on the waste hierarchy and set out the guiding principle. it would have made it possible to have a more flexible waste policy that takes account of the circumstances. the guiding principle was also my own guideline for my change efforts, and i thank jackson for his many forms of support throughout the process. i therefore thank mr jackson, who was himself a degree more sensible than can be inferred from the final result achieved. he recognised that energy from waste treatment plants was partly responsible for the eu's energy budget and had to acknowledge that in some member states energy use was seen as a threat to recycling.
in writing. - mr president, i support the proposal for a european year to combat poverty and social exclusion in 2010. however, to the commission's draft text, which is a good one in itself, my colleague panayotopoulos-cassiotoou's report has added a few elements which i think are essential. firstly, the panayotopoulos-cassiotoun report has rightly pointed out the diversity of the structures that lead to poverty and social exclusion and has extended the concept of groups at risk. secondly, it has rightly placed a greater emphasis on improving employment, alongside the importance of social security, and also on the need to focus on increasing the profitability of work as a means of combating poverty and exclusion. thirdly, the panayotopoulos-cassiotoun report recognises the importance of lifelong learning and stresses the need to give everyone equal opportunities to hone their skills in response to changes in the labour market. the need for a new approach to combating poverty and exclusion in europe is acute. i was pleased to note that the budget allocated to the european year, eur 17 million, is the largest ever allocated to the european year. this too shows that the year in question is considered to be politically important.
in writing. - mr president, the schmidt report on the coherence and impact of development cooperation policy brilliantly highlights one of the main weaknesses of eu development cooperation policy more broadly: it is not sufficiently coherent and often does not cover all the relevant sectors. the report focuses on the impact of eu exploitation of biological resources in west africa. the main biological resources of the economic community of west african states (ecowas) are wood and fish, and over 80% of their exports are destined for the european union. although agreements based on sustainable development principles have been concluded in both sectors, they have not been sufficiently comprehensive. many fish species show clear signs of over-exploitation, and lack of regulation and controls lead to illegal and unsustainable deforestation. the resulting impoverishment in the region is also directly linked to the high rate of land migration. i voted in favour of the schmidt report and i believe that the coherent eu policy it advocates could have a significant impact in the west african region, with the eu being the largest buyer of key products in the region. however, it should be remembered that trade policy alone is not the solution; it must be closely linked, in particular, to development cooperation, in order to create the political and socioeconomic conditions for the region to be able to exploit the full potential of its biological resources. the second essential point is that the coherence of development policies can only be properly achieved if they are implemented at the highest political level.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, i thank the rapporteurs and colleagues for their cooperation and in particular mr morgan, who has completed a difficult task. we propose, among other things, that consumers should have the right to compensation if the agreed service and its quality are not achieved. consumers would be given the right to switch suppliers quickly and to be informed about the energy background, for example about environmental impacts. on the issue of ownership unbundling, both my group and the majority of the committee supported the commission's line. energy producers must be separated from the owners of the energy networks into independent transmission system operators, i.e. we do not believe in the so-called grand model. it narrowly lost the vote. in some countries competition is effective and consumers can make choices easily, while in others this is still almost impossible. most countries have opened their markets, while some continue their decades-long protectionism while taking over the markets of others. in many countries, it is virtually impossible for new energy companies to compete on a level playing field. that's what we're here to do. this has led to distortions of competition, weak investment and excessive consumer prices. a staggering 77% of the european union's energy is produced by fossil fuels. the present wasteful energy use has come to an end, as fossil resources are scarce and dwindling and concentrated in fewer and fewer hands. only a well-functioning market can develop an efficient emissions trading system, an industry based on zero-emission energy sources and an energy-independent european union. the agreement reached in luxembourg last friday could be close to what parliament wants, albeit with a few additions. for example, consumer protection must be strengthened. this is the will of parliament. the commission still has too much power in the present proposal. the comitology procedure must not become a fundamental principle of legislation. it's not a basic principle. the new directives require separate provisions on penalties as regards implementation. the union's infringement procedure is inefficient, too slow and too political. we are aiming to reach an agreement during the french presidency and i hope that the future presidency will do its job well so that this package can be completed before the end of the year.
mr president, commissioner, the liberalisation and harmonisation of the electricity market in the european union will inevitably lead to an increase in electricity prices. it is because of the electricity pricing mechanism, as mr turmes has shown. the market price is determined by wholesale electricity exchanges. on the stock market, the price of all electricity is determined by the cost of producing the most expensive product. when coal-fired power is the most expensive, the stock market is a profit-making machine for hydro and nuclear power producers. the same companies also benefit from the eu emissions trading system. in the exchange, emission allowances are also added to the price of electricity that does not need them to produce. we must learn from the experience of the united states. public citizen has calculated that in the 14 states that do not regulate electricity, the price is 52 percent higher than in the 36 states that do. the problem of the electricity pricing mechanism has not been addressed in the morgan report.
in writing. this is a crisis! the eu is being called into crisis again after the irish people rejected the lisbon treaty in a referendum on thursday 12 june. the agreement can only enter into force if all the member states ratify it. eu leaders are calling for new solutions, but few are proposing them. there are at least two problems. the lisbon treaty is so complex that it is almost impossible to understand. would you be prepared to sign such a paper? and the eu elite clearly wants to move too fast. now is the time for the smaller member countries to act. they must require each member state to have its own commissioner. this was the original wish of finland and many other countries. the lisbon treaty, when it comes into force, would mean that each member state would be without its own commissioner for one third of the time, starting in 2014. the wording of the lisbon treaty is so vague that in practice the smaller member states would be without a commissioner for longer than the larger ones. ireland has been interpreted as having rejected the agreement, inter alia, because of the commissioner issue. the commissioner in his own right is of particular importance to small member states, even though it is the commissioners' responsibility to promote the interests of the eu as a whole. in finland, every province is happy to have a "woman" minister in the government. eu leaders must now give serious thought to the reasons for the growing mistrust of the eu among citizens. has the union acted in the best possible way for the well-being of all its citizens? has the union deepened its cooperation in different areas and expanded too quickly?
in writing. democracy is literally the power of the people. there can be no democracy without the people, and it is not good for the people to be without democracy. in ireland, the people voted on a new constitution for the eu, the treaty of lisbon. it was democracy, and the irish voted for all other nations as well, 53.4% to 46.6%. the irish people did not want the eu to become a federation, nor did they want it to be militarized and transferred to the big countries. the men and women who run the federal government are bad democrats and lousy losers. the body has been forcibly resuscitated. it is said that small countries are not needed if they do not obey the actual command of the big ones. this is a way of breaking the illusion of eu democracy. the irish are criticised for democracy, but the hungarians are not laughed at, even though the hungarian parliament voted yes before the illegible treaty of lisbon was presented to it. democracy is the decision of the irish people, not the decision of the hungarian parliament. the desire to have a constitution for the eu does not come from the need of the people, but from the will of the elite to seize power. without referendums, it's a coup d'etat from small countries to big ones.
energy will be a big issue at the summit. the eu needs gas from russia, and russia needs the export revenues from europe. the summit could be decisive for the nord stream gas pipeline from russia to germany via the baltic sea to become a reality. this project could seriously disrupt the vulnerable ecosystems of the baltic sea, but the most serious threat to this project is the lack of trust between russia and the baltic sea countries. if the gas pipeline is to be realised, clear confidence-building measures are needed from two sides, from russia and from germany. russia must ratify the espoo convention, which regulates the sharing of responsibility in transnational projects that may have environmental consequences for neighbouring countries, and russia must stop all talk of russian naval and military participation in the construction of the pipeline. it will never be allowed, at least not in finnish territorial waters. germany, for its part, must first of all recognise that the project concerns all the eu member states around the baltic sea and is a matter of common concern to the eu. germany must show solidarity with poland and the three baltic states and convince them that they will not be discriminated against in their energy supply because of the project. germany must live up to the motion for a resolution we are now discussing, which says that the eu must act in unity against russia in large-scale energy projects. the pipeline must not lead to the eu's internal market being compromised. the eu, not russia's gazprom, is to set the rules for energy trade in the internal market.
mr president, commissioner, i have before me a study on russian businessmen published this year. all of a sudden, they're thinking the same thoughts we are. what kind of russia would they want in 2020? between 50 and 70% of them want russians to be free, secondly educated, thirdly active, fourthly law-abiding and fifthly to have good health. these are not in any way bad intentions. only 30 percent of those businessmen wanted to be rich. so it's no longer just about the oligarchs as we remember them. russia's objective is to modernise, and this objective is shared by both the leadership and the citizens. we are familiar with the concerns of the businessmen interviewed, 70 per cent of whom believe that the ageing of the population is a major concern, as do we. the high level of corruption is that it is lower in our country, but it is very common there. the independence of the judiciary and civil rights are important to more than 50% of the respondents. the poor level of education is a concern. we can offer examples and help to those who lack infrastructure and difficult bureaucracy. i therefore believe that we have an opportunity now, when we are dependent on russian energy, to contribute our expertise to the modernization of the country, which is their aim.
mr president, i hope that the conclusion of a cooperation agreement between the european union and russia will be achieved soon. it is important that the eu and russia have a direct, functional and honest relationship. the partnership must be fair and mutually beneficial. despite its pragmatic approach, the eu must not forget, and has not forgotten, human rights, and must seek an active human rights dialogue with russia. energy security is an important issue throughout europe, and when people talk about energy, they usually also talk about russia and eu-russia cooperation. the eu wants to secure its energy supply while reducing its dependence on energy from outside the eu. i hope that the summit will be an open, honest and, above all, fruitful debate.
the committee on agriculture has drawn up an opinion. - mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr haug for his excellent report. the agricultural budget is dominated by direct payments and market measures, which have their own ceiling in the financial framework. the expenditure ceiling is eur 2 027 000 000 and amounts to eur 42.8 billion. the increase is five percent. the committee on agriculture and rural development expects that part of this margin can be used for a programme to distribute fruit to schoolchildren, thus promoting healthy eating habits. obesity is still a growing problem among youths. the committee on agriculture and rural development also expects measures to be taken to set up a restructuring fund for the dairy sector. the committee is concerned about plans to use this margin to modernise agriculture in developing countries. this should be done through the resources of heading 4 of the external action, not heading 2. the committee on agriculture and rural development is also concerned about rural development measures. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the commission's budgetary line is very tight. the jutta haug report rightly draws attention to the narrow margins in many categories. the least flexible is in the master class four. it is clear that the appropriations for palestine and kosovo in 2009 do not fit in the budgetary framework. it is questionable in principle whether the flexibility instrument can be used for these known needs, which exceed the budgeted appropriations for the heading. our group supports the fight against climate change and we would have liked to see this objective more clearly reflected in the budget. the budgetary appropriations for the security and defence policy, which are intended to promote the militarization of the eu, are not included in the common budget, even if the council were to propose it, especially now that france is holding the presidency. the new situation created by the democratic rejection of the eu constitution by ireland has an unforeseen impact on the 2009 budget. (applause) i would like to thank you.
on behalf of the pse group mr president, the petition which the report deals with concerns the environment, but from the discussions we have had we have seen that the gas pipeline project has dimensions which are not related to the environment. it is in accordance with parliament's prerogative to stick to the facts in its resolutions. the fact is that the eu needs russian gas and russia needs its european customers even more. the second fact is that the project under consideration has been accepted in the eu as part of the ten programme. it is a major construction project which, if carried out, could have a detrimental impact on the baltic sea ecosystem. it is therefore important to carry out objective environmental assessments to verify the risks and to weigh them against the benefits. there is no such thing as a risk-free project. the amendments proposed by our group to the report are based on the principle that no concessions should be made in the environmental field, but that no artificial barriers should be erected either. it is also true that the biggest environmental problem in the baltic sea at the moment is the agriculture of the surrounding countries, and the real risk is the rapidly increasing oil transport by ship. however, these problems are not dealt with in this report. it is also true that the debate on the pipeline has become so politicized that it threatens to be sidelined. the remarks of former president putin that the russian navy also has economic interests to protect are not conducive to creating an atmosphere of confidence. nor is it a civilised way of conducting international dialogue to use energy for political pressure. finland has experienced pressure from russia in the form of timber tariffs, but at least so far the finnish government has not tied the matter to the gas pipeline project. russia has not ratified the espoo convention on the baltic sea. it must be required from russia before construction of the pipeline can begin.
mr president, i would like to thank you. at least two good things have come out of the european parliament's consideration of the nord stream case. thanks to the public hearing in the committee on petitions in january, we can now expect nord stream to present an impartial and comprehensive environmental impact assessment. the second good thing is that the debate should also have made it clear to the owners of nord stream and the russian state that permission to build this gas pipeline can only be obtained if russia also ratifies the espoo convention. it is a prerequisite for the regulation of liability in the event of damage. however, as we have heard, other confidence-building measures will also be needed if this project is to become the strong, unifying bond between the eu and russia that we hope for. among other things, gazprom must also be able to openly demonstrate its actual ability to meet promised deliveries in the future.
the baltic sea is an environmental disgrace for the european union. he's in really bad shape. we demand and need a lot of measures to improve the situation in the baltic sea, but this is not possible without russia's commitment to this matter. because we know how important the construction of this pipeline is to russia, we now have the possibility of requiring, before we give the building permit, that russia commits itself to certain other environmental projects to reduce emissions in the baltic sea. if permission is granted, we must be sure that russia will really commit itself to the matter and take the necessary measures. this is both an opportunity and a question of credibility for the european union as a whole. it must act in unity and speak with one voice in our relations with russia to save the baltic sea. now we have the opportunity, and we must know how to take advantage of it.
in writing. the decision to build the baltic sea gas pipeline is a two-way deal: between russia and germany. it should be a matter for all the states around the baltic sea. the baltic states are not just germany and russia. the joint decision on the matter is justified because the baltic sea gas pipeline has negative environmental impacts on the baltic sea. the environmental impact of the baltic sea gas pipeline must be investigated and the necessary measures taken. the construction permit will be conditional on russia's commitment to the espoo agreement. the baltic sea environment can only be improved if russia is committed and takes an interest in the baltic sea environment. now we have a chance to engage russia. russia's economic well-being depends on the export of energy. on the other hand, the eu is dependent on russian energy. a fair, environmentally friendly strategic cooperation is needed between the eu and russia. there's been a lot of criticism of the kremlin in this room. but there are always two parties to a contract. it is time for self-criticism in the eu. eu cooperation and concern about the state of the baltic sea must be turned into action!
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his very successful report. the report is a fitting response to the concerns of the citizens of the union, and in particular of the citizens of the countries bordering the baltic sea, about the environmental impact of the proposed pipeline. the construction of the baltic sea gas pipeline is primarily an environmental issue, in the light of which the whole project and its feasibility must be considered. the baltic sea is one of the most polluted seas in the world. the sea is particularly vulnerable because of its peculiarity: at its depth it is one of the lowest in the world and its water is slow to change. the baltic sea is a unique brackish water basin, and as such, some of its flora and fauna is found nowhere else in the world. a major environmental disaster would be catastrophic for the ocean. i strongly support the report's call for an independent third party to carry out an environmental impact assessment. the analysis shall be based on a broad scientific environmental basis. the international conventions also make it possible to get russia to commit itself to the negative conclusions of the environmental assessments. each of the conventions mentioned in the report is relevant in its own way. it is worth noting that this would be the first time that the 1974 helsinki treaty would be applied in practice. construction activities should not be started until all potential environmental impacts associated with the life cycle of the pipeline have been assessed. the pipeline routing should also be taken into account. the union's energy needs are undeniable. however, the means of meeting energy demand are diverse and one of the union's inland seas should not be put at critical risk simply because other alternatives appear to be more costly.
in writing. mr president, the construction of a pipeline as a project buried in the ground would be a more economical and safer alternative than a pipeline submerged in the sea. the proposed baltic sea pipeline will undoubtedly have environmental impacts that need to be studied. we must act to minimize the risks. however, north stream is not a matter for the eu and parliament will only deal with the matter on the basis of the report of the committee on petitions. it is polish domestic policy, which is being brought through such a loop into the community institutions as an environmental issue without reference to the political motives of poland and the baltic states. if i were a russian gas seller and a german buyer, i could not rely on the security of supply, especially in the case of a gas pipeline through the polish underground. we have had bad experiences in europe with ukraine's mediation, when it stole gas or failed to pay for it and when it came to a standstill and took gas supplied by russia to central europe for its own use. a similar risk is not excluded in the case of poland. it is thus consistently working against the development of trade and economic relations between russia and the eu. and the baltic states are supporting it. unfortunately, there is no alternative to a submerged pipeline on land, but it requires the protection of the marine environment.
for the alde group mr president, i too would like to congratulate mr andré brie on his excellent report. he has dealt with this difficult subject in a thorough and comprehensive way. the first challenge for afghanistan is to restore security and create a functioning state. it is a demanding task, as the security situation in afghanistan has deteriorated rather than improved. the improvement of the security situation is a necessary condition for any development, but a military solution alone will not solve the country's complex problems, as the rapporteur has pointed out. rebuilding society as a whole, implementing the rule of law, improving democracy and human rights, promoting equality and building a functioning administration, school and health system throughout the country is a huge task. in afghanistan, a programme is also needed to develop the countryside in a holistic way and to create alternatives to opium cultivation. all this also requires a reinforced contribution from the european union to support and rebuild afghanistan. the eu must also strive to make the international community's actions more effective by coordinating them. i would also like to stress the role of the emerging civil society in afghanistan in building the rule of law and democracy and in overcoming the culture of violence. the development of independent and pluralistic media and freedom of action are of paramount importance in this endeavour. there is still a lot to be done in afghanistan in this area as well.
mr president, it is almost a rule of courtesy to thank the rapporteur for his work. i am grateful to you too, but this is not due to good manners, but to the rapporteur's own merits. peter liese is a colleague who has understood the task of the rapporteur. it's not about forcing a group to listen to their own ideas, but about wanting to listen and to learn about the ideas of the group and to do justice to them. liese has done well here, thank you. we have been working on air transport for several years. we can be reasonably satisfied with the outcome, given that emissions trading as a unilateral measure can never be a desirable course of action. a unilateral decision can lead to trade disputes and, at worst, to airline lawsuits. the danger is a carbon leak, which has direct effects on the environment, but above all on the european economy and employment. the threat is real, for airlines are already being squeezed by the rising price of oil. there have been several bankruptcies and traffic jams. the decision was taken in haste, without even anticipating the outcome of copenhagen and without the desire to reach an international agreement in this sector. the single european sky, which would immediately deliver co2 savings of 12% per year has been awaiting confirmation for over a decade. this shows that emissions trading is not always about climate protection, but more about policy. i hope that we will soon be able to join the global aviation emissions trading system, which does not cause a carbon leak but actually rewards the reduction of emissions and the rationalisation of all activities with environmental objectives in mind. now, the emissions trading is punishing european companies the most, but they are on average flying with very new equipment. it was therefore prudent to abandon the use of the multiplier at this stage, as this would have led to a rigging exercise with little environmental benefit. i am particularly pleased that my position on the allocation of emissions trading revenues, in particular to the study on reducing aviation emissions, was accepted in the final compromise. it would have been a serious mistake to exclude air transport and to channel resources to competing forms of transport, as was suggested at the outset. if we really... (the president interrupts the speaker)
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. but that is not all: we must not forget the energy policy aspect either. we cannot have an energy policy that is separate from climate policy. they are as much a part of each other as taxation and budget or law and justice. energy policy can no longer exist without the financial or other instruments that make its elements possible. the eu and its member states' energy white papers have repeatedly called for clean, independent and competitive forms of energy but only the last criterion, competitiveness, is a viable market mechanism. i still do not see a market mechanism that would reduce our energy dependence - particularly on gas from russia. this week, the european energy forum is hearing opec. it is not the fault of opec that it is an irreplaceable cartel with too much influence on our economy. since the mistake of previous generations, energy dependence has been allowed to grow and flourish at our expense. it is a fact which we should bear in mind when we are deciding on future solutions, including in the case of pipelines and other economic dependencies. is it sustainable, is it the right direction to go in moving towards a low-carbon economy? climate change is a reality, as are rising energy costs. the eu's dependence on gas is growing and is giving its neighbour the power it lost 20 years ago. we certainly do not want to repeat the mistakes of our political predecessors. we have a lot to do in a short time.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with another report which aims to liberalize the energy market, this time in the case of gas. the majority of meps called for the unbundling of ownership of generation and networks in the context of liberalisation of the electricity market. but the council walked over parliament, and it is good that it did. the decoupling of ownership in no way guarantees a reduction in consumer prices. as far as gas is concerned, the member states have the choice of either separating ownership or going about things as they are. the construction and maintenance of networks is not a profitable business and it is understandable if the current owners are willing to give them up. the commission's proposal does not protect against this and does not protect consumers from energy poverty. in the context of the liberalisation of the market, i would like to remind you once again of the situation in the united states. public citizen calculates that in the 14 states that do not regulate electricity, the price is 52 percent higher than in the 36 states that do. liberalisation, competition and ownership unbundling do not automatically lead to lower prices.
the compromise reached on the gas directive is a good one and we can support it. however, the weakest customers, the consumers, have not been given enough attention, whether poor or remote. so i ask you to support our efforts to change. secondly, it is good that a compromise has been reached with the council which ensures that countries which do not have pipelines to other eu member states will not have to implement all the internal market rules either, because they do not participate in the internal market. the strategic energy technology plan is indeed needed and i congratulate the rapporteur on the inclusion of energy efficiency. the funding for energy technology has been insufficient. it's led to a mismatch between supply and demand. the strong turnaround in the energy industry across all sectors has meant that industry, awakened to climate change, is not getting the technology it needs fast enough. there simply aren't enough parts suppliers. waking up to the reality of climate change has shown how unprepared we are. the change in attitude of the citizens is clear, however, and we now need the cooperation of the community, the union, its member states and industry, while at the same time preventing the developing economies from polluting our livelihoods. we must improve our climate cooperation with the united states and at the same time conclude an energy cooperation agreement with russia. the most important thing is to take account of consumers, industrial development and cooperation with the united states and russia.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – madam president, i completely agree with the commission and council assessment on sovereign wealth funds. they are the trend of the 21st century and this debate is very welcome. these funds have become more visible again in a time of financial crisis involving multiple banks and investment firms as they stepped in to provide much-needed capital injections to some of these firms. sovereign wealth funds are predicted to grow at an increased rate in the near future, which should not scare us. this is a natural part of market development. the capital that sovereign wealth funds bring to the global market is needed to keep investment flowing. they have the capacity to provide liquidity to the financial market and to companies. this is sometimes vital to their survival. due to their size and resources, sovereign wealth funds are able to invest where funds are sometimes desperately needed but where others cannot or will not invest. in theory, like any other investment funds, also swfs seek good yields from sound investment which moreover tends to be long-term. they do not a priori pose a threat to global financial markets or the european economy; rather they are very beneficial to it. while there is some concern today with the rising economic power of some oil-rich countries as well as countries such as china and the implications of this, the response to this unease should not be the exclusion of these countries from global financial and investment markets. on the contrary, europe should welcome the inflow of funds coming from these states and their investment funds. naturally the fact that some of these countries are not abiding by the same basic principles with us politically is a cause for some concern. if political objectives drive their investment strategies – however, this has not been the case – there is no evidence that sovereign wealth funds would have caused any major crisis. they have operated in a sound manner without political interference. it is both counter-productive and against the principles of good regulation to discriminate against all swfs based on their origins. the basic principle of financial markets and corporate governance regulations should be the same treatment of all actors involved in similar activities. of course the code of conduct would be welcome but it should be based on this undifferentiation of the source of income.
madam president, i think it is absolutely amazing how the ecb has delivered the main point of the mandate: price stability. if we look at the d-mark period of 1948 to 1998, the price stability track record of the ecb is actually better than that of the d-mark, which used to be the global benchmark. i think you have delivered a very good result on that front. but i am also equally happy that you, president trichet, referred to financial stability. this is also in the treaty mandate of the ecb, and i think that the ecb’s role in financial supervision should be strengthened. tommaso padoa-schioppa’s ‘twin peaks’ model is very enchanting, and i think that it is now up to the member states and the council to take this model, to have more of a role in the ecb for financial stability supervision. in the european parliament the van den burg-dăianu report about this is currently being drawn up. it has a lot of good points which you can also use in your work when we try to deliver better financial stability supervision in europe.
in writing. − the largest groups initially stated that up to 30 members from seven member states would be needed to form a group. fortunately, the project was scuttled in a hard vote by the treaty committee in may, by a vote of 15 to 14. i also voted against the amendment now proposed, because small groups often remain on the sidelines of decision-making. it is wrong to restrict the plurality of votes, that is to say, to make it even more difficult for small groups to function. it is also strange in the light of the fact that often the greatest differences of opinion are found within groups. the largest group of conservatives are divided on many big issues into two, even three.
in writing. - mr president, the rack report on a new way of thinking about urban transport that we voted on is an important part of the new comprehensive approach of the commission's energy and climate package: significant emission reductions in europe can be achieved through sensible and efficient urban and transport planning. however, account must be taken of the differences in geographical location and living conditions between the member states. that is why i voted for amendment no 2 by our group. i come from a country of long distances and comparatively small towns. it is quite clear that the possibilities for reducing private car use are much weaker, for example, in the sparsely populated municipalities of northern finland than in the densely populated areas of central europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the green paper on the situation in china, because now, under the olympic games, china's situation is still in sharp contrast to the promises and public commitments it once made to improve the human rights situation and the status of tibet, as stated in amendment no 15. i think that the amendment 16 is particularly important, namely that the negotiations between the dalai lama and the chinese representatives must achieve concrete results before the olympic games. the concerns expressed in amendments nos 11 and 12 about the events in lhasa are also worthy of note. the call in amendment no 20 for the union and its member states to take action against china is most appropriate. i wouldn't rule out a full-scale boycott of the olympics. president pöttering's decision was wise and humane. we cannot, in the name of our values and the olympic spirit, allow china to continue to build the olympic stage at a leisurely pace.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in zimbabwe because on 27 july the mugabe regime of terror once again openly flouted the values, justice and democracy of the international community. there is no doubt that the presidential elections in zimbabwe were illegal, and the violence, murder, arrest and harassment of the country's opposition is a particularly vicious part of this injustice. as the resolution states, zimbabwe is in dire need of a process of mediation between the international community and the various parties in africa. the parties to the dialogue must be able to bring together a broad range of civil society and its broad democratic forces to achieve lasting results in zimbabwe. the people of zimbabwe have a deep desire for democracy. the situation in zimbabwe is a matter for the entire international community and the african community, and it is imperative that we refrain from recognizing the mugabe regime of terror. unfortunately, china and libya have not shared the international community's view on this matter. the eu must support and encourage those african states which seek to boycott zimbabwe in the african context. similarly, south africa's political and economic support for the mugabe government and the expulsion of zimbabwean refugees from south africa are at war with our common values. i also wanted to support in the resolution the view that this conflict could and should have a negative impact on eu-south africa relations.
in writing. mr president, i appreciate that the president of the council, mr nicolas sarkozy, has just expressed his desire to take an ambitious approach to the eu's energy and climate package and to reach an agreement on this during the french presidency. i hope above all that it shows that the challenge of climate change is finally at the heart of policy. however, i would like to remind the president of the council of the seriousness of the task. emissions trading is such an important market instrument and it affects so many people that we cannot afford a political timetable that is ambitious at the expense of the environment and sustainable development. otherwise, france will have a hat to melt, of which it cannot be proud. last month i organised a hearing in the european parliament where environmental organisations, research institutes and those concerned with emissions trading were given the opportunity to present their assessment of the economic impact of emissions trading. the message from the seminar was clear: the commission's proposal will lead to significant cost increases without corresponding environmental benefits. i refer to the worrying analysis of mckinsey in this case. we have to make the emissions trading plan better. this is a serious situation. we cannot use a well-managed european industry as a test case again just because it is being neglected. it's better to fail at achieving than to create failure. i believe that we can achieve a good result in time, but that requires substantial adjustments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the reduction commitments must be respected, but the methodologies must be open to discussion. we have put forward a considered alternative to the commission's approach in parliament on a broad front. mr president, i would like to thank you for your report.
mr president, we must act in accordance with the rules of procedure of this parliament, and i do not think that mr leinen is the authority in this matter to interpret the rules of procedure, because he cannot act as the sole interpreter of the rules of procedure. i think you, mr president, should take responsibility for the way this matter is being handled and then review your procedure with parliament's legal service and the bureau, because otherwise we will not be able to move forward in this situation.
the author. - mr president, i consider your interpretation of the rules of procedure to be politically correct but legally incorrect and i would strongly urge that it be examined by the bureau and the legal service of parliament, since the application of that article cannot be left to your interpretation of the rules of procedure today, but must be clarified. as a matter of fact, india has been called the world's largest democracy. it is a large country, but whether it is democratic also depends on the human rights situation in the country. the alleged actions of government security forces against human rights activists in the jammu and kashmir region demonstrate that india does not fully respect the rule of law. this is despite the fact that the government of the country has clearly stated that it will not tolerate abuses. we find the indian government's actions incredible and ask where thousands of people are disappearing to and who are the dead found in mass graves. we condemn the forced disappearances of people, torture, rape and other human rights violations. what is particularly serious is that we suspect the indian government is involved in all of this. we therefore demand in the european parliament that an investigation be carried out, independent of the indian government, into the origin of the mass graves, the murderers of the victims and the identity of the murdered. this is not an insignificant matter because of the special nature of the kashmir region. there is a danger that neighbouring pakistan could become a party to a possible new conflict, and in that case these events could act as a spark for national fires in the area concerned. our group supports the joint resolution calling for a thorough investigation into the events in jammu and kashmir.
the author. - mr president, in a resolution just adopted, the european parliament called for human rights for indians. the situation in bangladesh is very problematic. the entire country has been under a state of emergency for 18 months, and there is no free election in sight. bangladesh is not a democratic country, although of course the world is full of undemocratic states and violations of democracy. of all the undemocratic countries, only zimbabwe has been condemned by the eu and the us. the undemocratic nature of its elections can be freely criticized in the western media because there is no oil in the country. oil is a buffer and a shield against condemnation of violations of democracy. bangladesh is also not an oil state. for that reason, the media, with the tacit blessing of the oil-dependent rulers, could bring the state of the country to the fore. the death penalty has been reinstated in bangladesh and since the declaration of the state of emergency, 300,000 people have been arrested on false grounds, including 12,000 in the past month. many of the people arrested in recent weeks have been democracy defenders, local party activists and pro-democracy supporters who are being treated as criminals by the state and government. terrorism is also a daily occurrence in bangladesh, and it is the shadow of human rights violations. bangladesh is not a state of law. the human rights violations take the form of the most varied arrests, the lack of a defence for the accused, the lack of sentences and the lack of grounds for them. the human rights enshrined in the constitution are not respected. for the reasons mentioned above, our group supports the joint resolution of parliament calling for the immediate lifting of the state of emergency and the holding of free elections in due course.
mr president, under the emergency rule instigated in 2007, one can be imprisoned indefinitely without a court warrant on the grounds of reasonable suspicion of involvement in corruption-related activities. with the recent arrest of motiur rahman nizami, the three main political party leaders of bangladesh have now been apprehended on illusive charges of corruption. since march 2008 at least 12 000 persons have been arrested and denied the right to seek release on bail. the number involves hundreds of political party members, but business people and journalists have also fallen prey to this anti-corruption witch hunt. with elections pending for december of this year, the key political leaders are unable to participate in dialogue, inhibiting the democratic process. though the caretaker government denies allegations that these arrests are politically motivated, the strategic timing of these events is too coincidental to ignore. the detainees should be charged lawfully on the basis of substantiated evidence or released immediately. otherwise the outcome of the coming elections will be fraudulent and far from democratic.
in writing. georgian president mikhail saakashvili, accused by the opposition of widespread electoral fraud and rampant corruption, has won office by inciting georgian ultra-nationalism and promising to forcibly legalize pro-russian south ossetia and abkhazia. the united states has been georgia's best ally, but it hasn't been israel's worst ally either. the united states has had between 130 and 170 military instructors in the country, and israel has had more than 100. an elite israeli soldier, alias iike tomer, who served as a trainer for defense shield, the military contracting company of general gal hirsch, the anti-hero of israel's losing lebanon war, says: "by israeli standards, the capabilities of soldiers were zero and the capabilities of officers were mediocre, so it was not logical to take such an army into war". the attack, which was illogical and unwise, led to the total defeat of saakashvili's army of clowns. the soldiers left their heavy weapons with the russian forces and fled in a chaotic herd to tbilisi. such an adventurous policy does not deserve the support of the european parliament. it's backed by the neo-conservative georgia lobby in the us, led by randy scheunemann, foreign policy adviser to presidential candidate john mccain. he's been on the payroll of both mccain and saakashvili at the same time, and over the last year and a half, he's received $290,000 in compensation from georgia. i agree with you that the russians overreacted to the attack.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's social package is the long-awaited reform to build the social dimension of the union. however, like many of my colleagues, i would have liked to see the commission take a more bold and ambitious approach to its proposals and reforms. in particular, as regards the basic security of public services, i think the package was not adequate. however, the package contains many good proposals. i would like to thank the commission in particular for having, after discussions, decided to draw up a horizontal anti-discrimination directive covering all the criteria for discrimination. citizens who are discriminated against in different ways and for different reasons must not be placed in an unequal position. the horizontal approach is the only way to ensure equal treatment for all. the proposal to strengthen the role of the european works councils is also very welcome. the relatively less publicised proposal for a directive on patients' rights in crossborder healthcare touches the everyday lives of many europeans. as europe's borders open up and opportunities in the health sector increase, it is particularly important to clarify who is responsible for the health of the patient and what that responsibility is. the commission proposal for a directive is a welcome clarification of the european-wide rules. despite its shortcomings, the package is definitely a step in the right direction and i hope that the commission will continue its efforts in the near future to improve the social security of european citizens. in this connection, i would urge the commission to speed up its plans to draw up a directive to extend maternity leave from 14 to 18 weeks. the directive will be implemented as soon as possible. however, i would like the commission to focus its proposal on extending parental leave and thus improving the rights and opportunities of both parents to stay at home after the birth of a child.
vice-chairman of the budg committee. - mr president, mr minister, mr commissioner, first of all i would like to thank you for the fact that the draft budget for next year has been put to the vote in parliament. i would also like to express my regret that the chairman of our committee, mr reimer böge, cannot be present at this debate because he is also carrying out important duties in his own country. that is why i am using the floor of the committee on budgets for him. i would like to thank the council and its presidency for the constructive cooperation which we have had with them, since we reached important joint declarations in the july budgetary conciliation on, among other things, the implementation of the structural and cohesion funds, the european solidarity fund and the globalisation fund, and staff expenditure. this promises a positive atmosphere also in the november mediation. unfortunately, the council was not as cooperative as it was in financing the many new measures which were discussed and included in resolutions, for example, at the european council in june. the commission's preliminary draft budget was already rather meagre. commitments amounted to eur 134.4 billion, or eur 2.6 billion below the financial perspective, and payments to an even lower level, eur 116.7 billion. this is equivalent in fees to only 0.90% of the eu's gross national income, well below the maximum financial framework, on average 1%. the council has cut the budget by a further eur 500 million for commitments and eur 1.8 billion for payments. i think that the budget does not correspond to the priorities of the eu and of parliament precisely because of the scarcity. the very dangerous thing is that cuts have been made in heading 1, which is key for sustainable growth and employment. the lack of payment appropriations is a particular threat to structural policy, which is one of the parliament's main priorities. it is already long overdue. it is quite clear that the budget must deal with heading 1 in particular, but also with heading 4, which seems to be chronically underfunded from year to year. there are also difficulties at the moment with kosovo and palestine. i would like to highlight two other points. the first is the food aid instrument, the food facility instrument. the commission proposes to allocate around eur 1 billion to developing food aid and production in developing countries. parliament supported this but regretted that the commission had not put forward the appropriate instruments. the interinstitutional agreement offers a good opportunity for this, and the committee on budgets is ready and willing to respect the interinstitutional agreement also in this respect. the european parliament is also ready to support the reconstruction of georgia. the budgetary procedure also offers opportunities in this respect. we hope that at the next donor conference, when the commission makes commitments on behalf of the european union, they will be discussed in advance with the budgetary authorities.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal. - mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, and in particular mrs trautmann, we are talking about the human rights of the information society, which we are improving with the aim of democracy and good business practice. so improvement is necessary, and we're improving privacy and security, like the spam issue. we demand the principle of openness and we regulate access to services, which is not a small thing, low prices are essential and, for example, broadband is a right for all citizens. we have now strengthened the position of the elderly and the disabled in particular, and i believe that this is a human and right objective. secondly, we must open up the networks to competition and prevent operators from obstructing competition. instead, it should be increased and terminals that can only listen to one operator should not be made. that would be as crazy as a radio with only one station. broadcasters must now and always be guaranteed their own frequencies, because they will never have the money to participate in the auction. it is, in fact, the strong foundation of the information society, and we must always maintain it. but we still need room for 3g, and we're going to get it. we must also make sure that there is room for new technologies and new innovations. finally, the more equitable, the more technically and economically advanced europe is, the better off we will be as a democracy in the information society and as a community that fulfils the lisbon objectives, which at present seem remote. it is in our hands, and this is a package of legislation that is a step in the right direction.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i was stunned to read the report by my colleague, mrs proinsias de rosa, on the complaint against germany concerning the working hours of doctors! it is extremely inefficient of the administration if the european commission cannot deal with the petitioner's complaint without several years of unjustified delay. in the present case, the commission has clearly misused its discretion in interpreting its tasks, and it is more appropriate to speak of discretion rather than discretion. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is now time for the commission to come forward and say how it intends to deal with complaints in the future as quickly and efficiently as possible. thank you!
mr president, we still remember the very recent treatment of the reach regulation on chemicals, which was one of the most laborious legislative packages of this parliamentary term. the regulation on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures which we are now dealing with is partly based on and complements the newly enacted reach regulation. that's why it raised a lot of questions in advance. the commission's hope for a first reading agreement initially seemed too ambitious, insofar as parliament had previously shown an interest in chemicals legislation. i can therefore only admire the meritorious work and leadership of mr sartori with this technical report and how he managed to avoid the temptation to over-amend the regulation and, for example, to include new paragraphs and classifications of substances in the annexes which would have slowed down or even prevented the entry into force of the regulation. the report we are working on in the committees is a good way of achieving the objectives of the regulation, particularly in terms of harmonising and simplifying legislation. ghs and reach complement each other and not only make it easier for producers and distributors of the chemical, but also help to restore consumer confidence through clear and safe labelling. when the committee began its work, there was concern that the ghs regulation would, for example, require a large number of detergents to be classified in the same way as corrosive. for example, a tube opener and a hand wash would have had the same classification and labelling, resulting in a situation where consumers would not be able to distinguish dangerous products from milder detergents. however, the classification of substances now corresponds as closely as possible to their actual potential hazard. the aim of this un-based system is to ensure that the same criteria are used worldwide for the classification and labelling of chemicals, as well as for transport regulations and regulations on sale and use. according to the agreement, it should be fully operational in 2008. we still have a few months.
in writing. - i voted against the report by mrs eva-britt svensson, in line with the group's line. this is because, although the report on marketing and advertising affecting equality between women and men contained many good ideas, which i strongly support, such as teaching children media criticism and questioning gender stereotypes, i think the report as a whole went too far. the proposals to create a code of conduct for advertising at eu level and to set up a monitoring body to which citizens can appeal against gender stereotypes in advertising and marketing represent the very kind of guardianship policy that is generating hatred towards the eu. marketing and advertising are an important part of communication and, as products from different manufacturers compete in the market, advertising naturally has to use attention-grabbing elements. however, i believe that the creation of marketing and advertising rules is a national responsibility, and that a healthy questioning of media criticism and gender stereotypes starts with education.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your contribution. i thank the rapporteur, mrs flautre, for her balanced and worthy report, in which she makes a justified call for a reassessment and examination of the eu sanctions as part of the eu's wider human rights policy. as long as we do not have data based on extensive research, the debate on the effectiveness and ineffectiveness of sanctions will not be fruitful. sanctions can have two complementary meanings in human rights policy. on the one hand, they are a moral message for a community of european values and, as such, a significant signal. on the other hand, sanctions can have a concrete impact on the development of the target country. both sides have certainly played a role in cases where real lasting results have been achieved, for example in the dismantling of apartheid in south africa. it is clear, however, that sanctions alone cannot produce such results. the coordination and comprehensive use of all human rights policy instruments is needed to bring about a real, lasting and sustainable change in the human rights and political situation in the country. the need for a more effective human rights policy has been stressed by parliament in the past. in order to avoid humanitarian catastrophes, the possibility of more targeted sanctions, primarily targeting the country's leaders and human rights violators, should be considered. in particular, we should beware of disruptive measures which destroy the potential for growth of small and medium-sized enterprises. the question is on what basis sanctions are imposed. it is regrettable that too often the assessment of sanctions can be backed up by a consideration of appropriateness based on the commercial interests of the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i warmly thank the rapporteur, mr ries, for his excellent work, but i regret to say that i agree with the criticisms that many colleagues have made of this programme of action itself. the programme is based on existing measures, not on showing the way forward. time and again, the precautionary principle is forgotten in the excitement of new inventions. this is now the case with nanomaterials and electromagnetic fields. nanomaterials are rapidly becoming common even in consumer products, but legislation is expanding in tandem, even though researchers warn that nanomaterials could become a health problem equivalent to asbestos unless we take the risks seriously. the same is true of electromagnetic fields, to which hundreds of millions of people are exposed, although we feel very little of the effects. in some countries, such as italy, there are 500-metre safety barriers between the base stations and schools, but in finland there are even base stations on the roofs of schools. new european standards, taking account of scientific findings, are urgently needed.
the author. - mr president, the coup d'état by the mauritanian military junta has rightly been widely condemned. the elections in mauritania in 2006 and 2007 were conducted in accordance with international observers' standards and there is no doubt about the legitimacy of the ousted government. there have been more than ten coups or attempted coups in mauritania since it gained independence from french colonial rule. the last coup was only three years ago, with the participation of the military leadership, and now again. the development cannot be described as stable or democratic. in mauritania, the clashes between the democratically elected president and the generals over the treatment of islamist extremism played a role in the coup. this is a major challenge for others who are trying to bring peaceful stability to the region. the motion for a resolution rightly notes that the restoration of a legitimate and democratically elected government is a prerequisite for the stable development of democracy in mauritania. the holding of new elections is therefore not an acceptable solution, as it would justify the exercise of power by the military junta. the danger is that the isolation of the country will feed extremist opinions and actions that will push democratic development to the side. it is therefore necessary to support the search for a peaceful and speedy solution under the auspices of the un. our group supports the motion for a resolution on the situation in mauritania.
mr president, as we heard at the beginning of august, in mauritania the first democratically elected president has been deposed and imprisoned, together with the country's prime minister and minister of the interior, in a military coup. mauritania is one of the poorest countries in the world and one of the newest oil producers. but with democratic development threatened on such a large scale, cooperation with it becomes questionable. with the world bank having frozen $175 million in aid and the eu considering a freeze of €156 million, several development projects are in danger of being buried. however, in such situations, generosity does not pay off in the long run. the adoption of a hard line does not, of course, mean that food aid and humanitarian aid are withdrawn from the mauritanian people. however, it is necessary to remind the ruling military junta of the cotonou agreement and that if there is no dialogue on the restoration of democratic order, eu funding will once again be cut off.
for the alde group mr president, i am particularly pleased to be speaking today because the best vice-president of this parliament, marek siwiec, is chairing the sitting today and the excellent commissioner, ján figel, is here and because the subject is of the greatest interest - creativity and innovation, although one can always ask what creativity is and what innovation is when talking about these matters. often it seems that they are words that are not considered to have much meaning. if i had to answer the question of what creativity is, i know at least one answer, which is said to have been given by the finnish composer sibelius: he thinks creativity is pain. but we in europe are not afraid of pain if it creates new added value, something that will take us forward as nations and as europe. that, i believe, is the main purpose of this year's theme. to bring something new to the european reality. how to promote creativity and innovation? as the honourable member knows, your country, poland, is in the process of setting up a european institute of technology and innovation. it is certainly one of the factors in this field which is trying to encourage the member states of the european union, with their different quirks, to create new added value and to innovate. but we know that innovation and creativity don't come from administrative decisions. whatever we decide here, it's not a decision, but we need the resources, the conditions in universities, schools and in different parts of our society, so that people can focus on creating and exchanging best practices and so that people can break away from the stereotypes that are holding back new thinking. this is a great challenge for us, because we all know that in many cases the schools of our own countries are the result of a long tradition. they have taught a certain tradition, a certain truth, and at some point it would be necessary to question things and look at them from the perspective of pluralism and see that by being critical and by being dissenting, by challenging paradigms, certain truths, you can succeed in creating new added value. i know that the commissioner will certainly urge the member states to do their part so that they can all present national innovation strategies on how they, through the lifelong learning programme, from primary school to university, support students to create new things or make room for new thinking. this is an important issue and i believe that the key message of this year's theme is that creativity, innovation and new thinking are at the heart of the debate. perhaps this will lead to new innovation and new added value, and perhaps it will even lead to product development, because the economy is an important issue in the european union. thank you, mr president.
in writing. diversity in the media i thank the rapporteur, mrs mikkos, for her report. the role and influence of the media is a burning issue in european society. history has made it crystal clear that the concentration of power is never good. man is always susceptible to the disease of power, whatever its form, and concentrated power is the disease of society as a whole. this is also true of the fourth state, the media. the union's key tasks are to guarantee competition in the internal market. why shouldn't the media do the same? the idea of bringing together competition and media law to avoid conflicts of interest between media ownership groups and other social powers, as presented in the report, is justified. i am more concerned, however, about the media's capacity as guardians of the social good, because they too are increasingly interested in purely financial gain. the church has not been feeding the nation's finger-pointing moralism for ages; a certain press is doing the work, for sin, shame and judgment are its lifeblood. in a brilliant way, this kind of journalism combines the idealization of immorality with a very narrow-minded approach to the business of encouraging, condemning, and making money. for by your words you will be acquitted, and by your words you will be condemned". the words of these sentences showed that he knew the human mind well. when will the media themselves ask the question, 'does the way they operate ultimately do more harm than good to society?'
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr berman for his excellent report, which sums up the direction of eu development policy very well: progress has been made, but much remains to be done. the eu recently published a research paper on the millennium development goals at midpoint, which examined the achievement of the mdgs and the role of the union in achieving them. the report shows both positive developments and areas for improvement. the eu is the world's largest donor of development aid, accounting for 60% of all development aid in the world. in 2006, the eu reached its official target of 0.31% of the union's combined gross domestic product for development aid. despite the achievement of the 2006 target, the amount of aid is insufficient and, according to the 2007 forecasts, is falling alarmingly. most eu countries have not increased their development aid over the past year, and some have reduced their aid by more than 100%. the eu countries committed to the millennium development goals therefore have a lot of room for improvement. the eu's own targets for aid are to increase to 0.7% of gdp by 2015. the problems of development and poverty will not automatically disappear with the 0.7%, but planning, structures and monitoring are also urgently needed. but without money nothing happens and it is of the utmost importance that even this goal and promise be kept.
i would like to say a few words, mr president, about this report by mrs maria badia i cutchet, which i think is very good and which concerns the improvement of the quality of teacher training. it is true that teacher training is very much a matter for national governments, and it should be. however, since we have a common objective of promoting european know-how and innovation throughout the european union and developing the european economic area, we need certain common rules of the game. we therefore also need greater cooperation in teacher training in the exchange of best practice, because at present, as we all know, for example, according to the oecd pisa study, there are far too great differences between the levels of learning of pupils in the member states. this gap must be closed, and we need a mechanism, an open system of coordination at european union level, which will enable all children and young people to receive a good basic education. in this respect, this report is very good. i would urge all of you who are not yet familiar with it to read the excellent report by maria badia i cutchet. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would also like to extend my recognition to the rapporteur of his very good work. the schengen information system is the largest common european database which operates as a joint information system for the member states. this information can be used by the police and the judiciary when cooperating on criminal matters, as well as for checking individuals at external frontiers or on national territories, and also for issuing visas and residence permits. the decision to create the second generation of the sis – sis ii – took account of the need to introduce biometric data and new types of alerts, for instance because of the european arrest warrant. sis ii is also needed to bring on board the new member states, as we have heard. the new system was originally scheduled to begin operating in march 2007. we know there have been many delays, and a new timetable was announced providing for it to become operational by the end of this year. and, thanks to the transitional solution presented by the portuguese government and also mentioned here by minister jouyet, the so-called ‘sis one 4 all’, it is now fully operational and it has allowed nine of the new member sates to be connected to the sis. nevertheless, as underlined by commissioner barrot, in this enlarged schengen area, the reinforcement of security requirements has become even more urgent and can only be fully achieved by a full transition to the next generation of a system. a must for this transition is that sis ii meets all the legally-defined technical and functional requirements, as well as other requirements such as robustness, response capacity and performance. parliament is now asked to give its opinion on the two current proposals aiming to establish the legal framework governing the transition. as the alde shadow rapporteur, i fully support the line taken by the rapporteur, notably that the commission shall submit by the end of june 2009, and then by the end of every six-month period, a progress report to the council and to parliament concerning the development of sis ii and also concerning the migration from the schengen information system to the sis i+ to the second generation sis ii. it has been extremely disappointing to face the fact that sis ii is not yet operational. with this new mandate and the rigorous testing that will take place, i hope that sis ii is finally on track to a successful launch by september 2009.
mr president, as mr nassauer has already said, the ppe-de group is very happy with the contents of the annual legislative programme. i think that, due to the improved process, parliament has already come on board, which makes it very easy for us to improve the annual legislative programme. as a representative of the economic and monetary affairs committee, i would like to concentrate on your first pillar – growth, jobs and european competitiveness. i think that a key factor is how we respond to the financial crisis. in the ppe-de group we believe that, as we already have quite good legislation in place in europe, everything we do now should be based on the existing legislation and its improvement. we do not see the need for a very radical overhaul in europe. we think that, firstly, soft-law measures should be considered because that is also the most effective way to respond to global issues. financial markets are very global and we cannot act in europe as though we were in a vacuum. we also believe that there are many improvements in the present regulatory and supervisory framework, the so-called ‘lamfalussy framework’, and we support completely the commission’s work on that area. the second issue is climate change. climate change will influence growth and jobs in europe. we should not take the fundamentalist view about climate change that europe must act now and must do everything at once without global support. thirty per cent of emissions, even if we were to go that far, is not enough to tackle climate change. we need a global, effective deal and that will probably come from copenhagen. until then we should not punish ourselves. we should not punish european competitiveness too much, but take a realistic approach to climate change policies in europe. finally, my third point concerns smes. smes are the key to european growth. for example, in the social package we should always take on board their views and how they see the social framework environment in europe. the social package should not be a burden to european small and medium-sized companies.
madam president, i do not share the views of my colleagues who blame the commission for their non-delivery. i think the biggest mistake the european commission could have made would have been to think that more regulation is always the right answer. all proposals from the commission should be proportionate, balanced and well-targeted. i have been moderately content with how this commission has responded until now, and i remain confident that the commission has all the right tools to improve the regulatory framework for financial services. improvements should be based, in the first place, on existing legislation and legal bases. in the second place, soft-law measures should be considered, and finally, if there is no improvement otherwise, then we should turn to legal, new regulations. i think that sometimes there is a tendency to forget how much we have already done in europe. since 2000 we have gone through a serious overhaul of our financial services laws, and we have updated many of the relevant regulations already. we have a modern and sophisticated legal framework in europe. i think it is followed by most of the people in america already, so i do not think we need to radically change our approach. finally, i would like to say that it of course needs to be considered that the supervisory framework is not as good as it could be. we should develop – based on the ecofin road map – the way the supervisors work in europe, but also we should remember the global scale of things. we should remember that the financial industry is probably the most global industry in today’s world, and we cannot act in a vacuum. we should remember that we are living together with the outside world, and we should try to develop standards, mutual recognition and convergence with transatlantic players – because that is the way to currently open competition – and also very good rules on the protection of retail clients and the way these things go forward. finally, one thing about the ecb. i think we need to thank the ecb. the ecb did a very good job. the consequences to the european economy, both in the financial economy and also the real economy, would have been much more severe without the very good delivery of the ecb in terms of liquidity. i think the ecb should be congratulated for that.
in writing. it is now known that state power is needed to guarantee capitalism economically, not just militarily. in the united states, the home of the world's most successful speculators, the government has privatized the profits of speculation and is now socializing the largest speculative losses in economic history into a junk bank. raubtier is a german term for capitalism, based on the word raub (plunder) and its cognate raubgier (greed for prey). both are better. in the coming years, savings will be robbed from depositors all over the world who are prepared for a bad day, as the events of the past week inflate and/or drive the world economy into recession. it is difficult to imagine how the united states could pay off the enormous new debts it is now incurring, except by inflation, i.e. by devaluing money to meet its own deteriorating debt-servicing capacity and normalizing overvalued asset values. in the us, the time bombs of government-sanctioned and market-terrorist banks-made fraudulent capitalism, based on banks' bilateral swaps, virtual financial product packages, the insolvency of uncredited customers and uncovered credit insurance, have exploded in the eyes of the taxpayers - and the rest of the world is paying.
the author. - mr president, commissioner, the compromise resolution on energy prices prohibits the role of speculation in the rise in energy prices. but virtual oil is traded on the derivatives market at six times the price of physical oil. the price of electricity is also securitised, with virtual electricity being sold on the energy exchange at a higher rate than physical electricity, five times higher on the eex. large frauds occur in otc derivatives trading, which is not regulated by the public authorities, nor by the stock exchanges themselves. in the eu, harmonisation of electricity pricing is generating automatic windfall profits for large companies, and in 2013 emissions trading will multiply the speculative opportunities. the energy derivatives in securitized form are put at the mercy of speculation, similar to the us subprime mortgage market: profits are privatized and losses are socialized. capitalism is a casino where the price of energy is valued in the stock market. thank you, sir.
mr president, this resolution is important and we have our own starting point. this is a situation that is like the stormy bermuda triangle, where addiction, climate change and prices that are unsustainable for the poor are all intertwined. there's speculation, and even food prices. saving is necessary and most effective, we all know that. but the ecological footprint of the poor is very small compared to the rich, who don't really want to reduce it, but are willing to pay more. so should we, in this situation, introduce a progressive energy tax? those who can afford to pay would pay proportionately more for energy. or do you put a higher price on energy-intensive goods or services? of course, we must discipline those who are manipulating. we are talking about sustainable development, and the energy poor are the heroes, and their position must be organised in a sustainable way. that's where we're going.
mr president, the most important thing for patients is to have access to good, safe and affordable care, and most patients want to be treated as close to home as possible, so that the national health care system is properly managed. the commission proposal under consideration should nevertheless be welcomed. it is important that treatment is available in another country. it allows for greater freedom of choice, clarification of guidance and advice, and clarification of safety and liability issues. so, from a patient's point of view, this is a good thing. for the member states, the situation is a little more complicated, as the directive can only work well if the electronic social security and health care systems of the eu member states are well-harmonised. we know that this is not the case today, and that the implementation of this directive will require a great deal of action on the part of the member states. it is necessary to ensure that, at the time of adoption, the directive also operates in such a way that patient data is transferred, data security is guaranteed and patient safety is guaranteed. the patient is the most important thing.
in writing. in a well-functioning europe, patients should be able to seek appropriate care where it is available. if there are queues for heart or hip surgery in one country, it should be possible to seek treatment in another country without a protectionist jungle of legislation. removing barriers also means making the best use of existing resources. most of the speeches against the mobility of patients and services appeal to the worst aspects of europeanism, xenophobia and lack of trust. well-functioning health services, both public and private, are part of a welfare society, a european welfare society.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, as you already said, the ppe-de group would like to request the postponement of the vote on this resolution. certainly, the governance of the international accounting standards board is not going to be solved in the next two weeks, so we have time to vote about this resolution in the next mini-plenary session here in brussels. the reason for this is that we have got some new proposals from the european commission and maybe it is possible to polish up some of the wordings of the resolution. the deadline was very tight and that is why we want to have more time and to have the vote on this during the next brussels session.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'common carrier'. i welcome the starting point where industry is given the opportunity to reduce the health problems of overweight and obesity through self-regulation measures, but where the commission is also given the power to monitor that efforts are made, for example, to promote sound and responsible advertising (especially for children) and to reduce the amount of salt, fat and sugar in food. it is important to provide consumers with comprehensive information on food labels so that they can choose between good, better and worse food. i also believe that, contrary to current practice, the levels of artificial trans fats should be clearly indicated on food labels. this is where i voted against our group's line. in the case of colour coding labelling of foodstuffs, our group will follow the line of the epp-ed. the colour-coding labels which have been the subject of much debate in europe, and which are intended to convey a clear message about the health of a product, are often misleading and therefore completely useless. for this reason, many supermarket chains in the uk have also sought to abandon their existing practice.
for the alde group mr president, first of all, on behalf of my group, i would say that it is true that the system is currently quite complex. it must be simplified, and we know that in principle the member states have competence in matters of education, but in the case of the european schools, the union also has competence. where there are eu agencies, there must also be european schools. it is a basic starting point and we must also remember that through the different strategies we are telling the citizens of europe that education is always an investment in the future. it is on this basis that we must act in the case of the european schools. i would like to mention a few educational aspects, the first of which is that education is free. i think we should have a debate in europe about making all education free of charge, regardless of the type of school. every child and young person should have access to good education, good instruction and good training, and free of charge is one of the guarantees of this. i believe that if the member states want this and if we really believe that education is an investment in the future, we can achieve this. it is also important to preserve education in the mother tongue, which is the basis of identity. children and young people studying in european schools come from different cultures, different nationalities. it is important that they have their own language, but it is also very important to remember that special teaching measures are needed and also education as part of the education, because they are often rootless when they come from another country to a new, unfamiliar environment. so we must also care for their overall personality development, their overall growth into humanity. this is also the basis of european human rights policy and the european concept of the human being. as regards the specific measures i have mentioned, group sizes are one of the things that can be invested in. group sizes should not be too large and there should also be a tailor-made model for each child. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that the true level of civilization of our europeans is measured by how we look after our less privileged neighbours, how we look after children and young people, and the european schools are a window to the world. what is our true level of civilization, and how do we care for our youth? are we prepared to invest in them and their future? i hope that europe can afford to do that and that europe really invests in children and young people and in european schools.
mr president, the spread of instability like wildfire is typical of today's world. this is particularly true of financial markets, which are today one of the most global business sectors. the excesses, exaggerations and regulatory cheating on the other side of the world are potentially felt everywhere in the pockets of ordinary consumers. i welcome the commission's initiative to set up a permanent working group within the commission to deal with the financial crisis. as commission president barroso said, we can and should do much more. i think, however, that the commission has been given far too much responsibility here. responsibilities must be kept clear. the european central bank ensures that prices and the value of money remain stable. the ecb has acted effectively to calm the crisis. today's coordinated interest-rate-decrease operation is a good example of this. the community institutions the european commission and the european parliament are responsible for keeping the internal market open and the legislation in place. market participants must comply with legislation and manage their risks and encourage households and enterprises to use their credit for the right-sized solutions. in addition to their own activities, financial groups must also have a broader social responsibility. however, the main responsibility lies with the finance ministers, as most of the tools to support growth and crisis management are in their toolbox, not the ecb, european legislators or market players. the finance ministers have been proactive. they have already adopted clearer rules of the game in october 2007 to prevent financial market crises. given the length of this work, the list of thirteen items on yesterday's ecofin is rather thin. i am not opposed to the proposals, but i do not think the programme of measures is adequate. it is not enough to do, we must also do the right things and, more importantly, we must know how not to do when legislation is not the right solution to the problems. we must not give in to all the pressure from populists.
in writing. the united states is suffering from a mad money disease, and its symptoms are bank failures, the socialization of banks and insurance companies, and the socialization of debt by using the junk bank as a dumping ground for bank waste. the crisis shows that capital needs state power for more than just wars in far-off countries, in the case of the united states in iraq and afghanistan. the good thing about the crisis caused by the short and cheap "bad money" is that now the united states cannot afford new wars. what a bad mark it leaves when a superpower treats its people in such a way that it is discredited in the eyes of others. the united states has experienced just that: it is now seen by many as a superpower that has experienced the fate of the soviet union. to put out a bank fire started by cheap money, debt and speculation, it will take all the political and financial resources of the united states. but it is no longer just about the economy. the giant of the securities industry has lost its value. the united states, which has been lauded as the winner of the ideological battle, is no longer credible as the winner.
on behalf of the ppe-de group. – mr president, i think it was mrs tumpel-gugerell who said in nice in mid-september that the worst mistake we made was not to include the financial supervisory architecture into the maastricht treaty. we should have dealt with this issue already, together with emu final phase decisions. i completely agree with this view, and mrs tumpel-gugerell is definitely not the only one who has said this. but whom are we to blame for the lack of progress on supervisory architecture? i do not think it is the community soldiers we need to blame – and by community soldiers i mean the european commission, which has delivered, and also parliament: as mrs van den burg said, we have been dealing with this issue since the beginning of 2000, and we have made several proposals to the council, but the council seems totally reluctant to move. i still wonder how it was possible to have the lamfalussy regime in place. maybe it was the deal between the uk and germany to offer the cesr location to paris which finally made the difference, but i think that in council they have been totally unwilling to move forward on this issue. so now it is the right time; maybe it is too limited and too late, but at least something is also now being done in the council. parliament has made several very important proposals. in order of priority, these three are the most important: first, the mandatory colleges for all cross-border financial institutions, with legally binding rules on how they operate, how they share information and what kind of decision-making procedures they use. second, improved legal status for the level 3 committees, and more effective working methods for them too. maybe on this issue, the commission could give a little bit more room for manoeuvre to level 3 committees, so that they would not only be consultative but also decision-making bodies in the future. and third, strengthening the role of the ecb in financial stability. the ecb should get more information. it should be linked to cesr and ceops and they should work more together. finally i want to say something about the transatlantic dialogue. now is not a good time to put the transatlantic financial services on hold. i know this is not the fault of the commission but it mainly depends now on us actions, but i think the more you can do to keep that discussion going, the better it is. it is very important for the future… (the president cut off the speaker.)
the author. - mr president, in democratic countries, the legislative process is open and public. citizens have the opportunity to know how their representatives voted and what the reasons for the decision are. unfortunately, this is not the case in the eu. we cannot claim that the eu is democratic and open and that citizens have access to the documents on which the legislation is based. we have therefore asked what the commission is going to do now, first of all, in response to the court's decision, to change the rules and practices so that transparency, openness and democracy can be achieved, and what the council is going to do to ensure that transparency and democracy are achieved and that the national position is also made visible after the decision. unless the position is open and public, citizens have no way of controlling what the people they represent do. it is high time to act quickly so that the eu can finally say and be proud that we have democracy, legislative openness and publicity. (applause) i would like to thank the
the author. - mr president, this judgment of the court is important and unequivocal. it clearly states that the eu legislative process must be subject to democratic control by the citizens and that the protection of the institutions in the decision-making process is secondary. this is a clear text. against this background, i am a little disappointed with these answers. when i listened to the council's reply, it was emphasized many times that this transparency and openness is important, but not much else. what's been done? the commission was asked for more time. i am interested to see how the eu institutions react to the court's decision. what if the public took the same attitude to the court's decision as the commission and the council, that is to say, that they would not care at all about the court's decision? it's not gonna happen.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a big thank you to diana wallis and others who have raised this issue. even from outer space, we can see that planet earth is warming. you can see this from the fact that the ice around the north pole is melting smaller and smaller in the summer. this should be a wake-up call for us to intensify our climate action. instead, a race has begun to exploit the arctic's oil and gas resources. there's a big contradiction here, you know? the international agreement on the management of the arctic is urgently needed, but its starting point and main objective must be the protection of the area a moratorium similar to that in the southern hemisphere. if we respond to the melting of the arctic ice by simply accelerating the use of fossil resources, we will only make climate change worse.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr pier antonio panzer for his excellent report on how to combat undeclared work more effectively in the eu. the report shows that in some member states, undeclared work accounts for up to 20% of gdp. in these countries in particular, but also in all the other eu countries, undeclared work is a problem for the national economy, but at the same time it also violates the right of workers to human work. the eu is committed to achieving the 'good work' objectives of its agenda, which threatens to be left unimplemented unless effective controls and a clear set of rules are put in place. the poor working conditions and the non-existence of working conditions for black migrant workers have created a new form of social slavery in europe. to scrape dark labor, you can use a stick or a carrot. the monitoring should be increased so that possible abuses can be tackled more quickly. the trade union movement has an important role to play in establishing, supervising and enforcing the rules of fair play in working life. national information campaigns for migrant workers can improve workers' awareness of the rules of each country's labour market. the truth is that the problem of undeclared work cannot be solved by regulation alone. fair working conditions, fair pay and adequate social protection must be guaranteed in every eu country, and around the world. people must have the opportunity to earn a decent living and to enjoy basic social security, regardless of the country in which they live.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the symbols of the european union are a celebration of the unity that we have achieved and that we hope to strengthen. symbols such as the eu flag, the anthem and the motto are already widely used at official events and within all member states. the european flag and anthem, with which we all are so familiar today, were first adopted at the 1985 milan european council. by then the flag had already been in existence for 30 years. the flag is intended to represent perfection, complementarity and solidarity and to symbolise europe’s unity. the motto ‘unified in diversity’ is the most recent of the symbols. it originates from an initiative by the european parliament and can now be seen as a definition of the european project. during the plenary yesterday, ingrid betancourt of latin america and france said that she dreams of a latin america that could cooperate and be as united as the european union. it is clear that our symbols serve as an identity and an indication to the rest of the world that we have accomplished great things together. although i believe in this unity and hope that it continues, i have been disappointed that on many occasions we have not been unanimous. for example, last week the european union president, mr sarkozy, invited only four of the member states to discuss the financial crisis. it is very interesting that the president of the european union does not pay attention to the solidarity and unity of the european union. this action – like all actions of this kind – only serves to divide rather than to unite us. it is ironic that we are so proud of our unity and solidarity, but at the same time the president of the union seems to pick favourites with regard to the most important current issue. i hope that by using the flag, anthem and motto more often we will all be reminded of the values that are vital to the existence of the european union but, at the same time, we must remember that how we behave is most important of all.
mr president, we have agreed between the groups that amendment 4 by the alde group does not fall even if amendment 2 is adopted, because these are compatible amendments. so we should have voted also on amendment 4. this change is made as an oral amendment, so if there is someone who objects to this, i can understand that, but we have agreed between the groups that amendment 4 should also be accepted and should be voted on.
mr president, as an oral amendment i would like to propose that the protection of biodiversity in our amendment would be an addition to the original text of the paragraph. so, no deletion: just an addition.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. - mr president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, i should like to focus on the external dimension of the programme. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. the committee on foreign affairs' amendments were intended to ensure that the programme's objectives reflect the priorities of these policies. the committee also recalled parliament's right to monitor the implementation of common aid and called for improvements in visa practices. many of the amendments tabled by the committee on foreign affairs have been taken into account, and i would like to thank rapporteur de sarnez and the committee on culture for this. i would also like to stress the importance of the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and council decision 1999/468/ec, and in particular article 8 thereof, which provide for the commission to consult parliament. finally, i would like to remind you of the eu's values and foreign policy objectives in implementing the programme and of the need to improve its publicity in third countries.
for the alde group mr president, commissioner ján figel', i would like to begin by thanking our excellent rapporteur, ms marielle de sarnezia, for this erasmus mundus programme. it is true, as the commissioner here emphasized, that this is a remarkable programme, an exemplary programme. this is one of the success stories that we in the european union have had the chance to do, to see and to implement, and i believe that in this new form the programme will be further extended and will be an even greater success. we are now also giving students from third countries the opportunity to join this programme, thereby increasing their own skills and returning to their own country to build prosperity there too. it is important that development cooperation and the social aspect are strongly involved, because that is what the european mindset must be, that we are also prepared to give of our own to other continents and thus build not only europe but our whole shared world. young researchers, young students and teachers are the frontline in building europe in line with the lisbon strategy. innovation, research, the creation of new value added, that is what we need if we are to ensure that economic growth is sustainable for decades to come. the programme has taken equality into account in an excellent way. it is important that we ensure equality and it is equally important that we ensure that disabled people are fully involved in these programmes. one concern that has been raised in many speeches is that of the previous problems with bureaucracy or visa procedures, and hopefully we can also undo those on our part and thereby ensure that this programme produces results very quickly and we can thus see the success stories that it brings. thank you, mr president, and thank you to the rapporteur, marielle de sarnez, for a good job, and for moving forward.
in writing. mr president, first of all i would like to thank president sarkozy for the right line he has taken: the environment must be given priority in good times and in bad. your reply to mr wurtz, mr cohn-bendit and mr schultz was also excellent. i would like to express my particular concern about the fate of the emissions trading scheme. in view of what has been done in this house this autumn, parliament's position cannot be considered the result of a democratic process. it has been marked by a rush, and the committees have not known what has been voted on. the changes have been brought to the table for the purpose of deception, we have been manipulated and misled. our rapporteur and our group coordinator betrayed the group's position by bypassing the vote. this is unprecedented in the history of parliament. the commission is one of the culprits. it gave a huge package of legislation too late and then warned against touching the package in the name of the international climate agreement. the result is a bad emissions trading model, which, if implemented, will raise costs and threaten european jobs. the unilateral application of the auction is therefore nothing more than an additional tax. i do not see any environmental benefit in the fact that the cleanest products in the world, european products, are being burdened with this in the name of combating climate change. the auction takes pollution out of europe and brings unemployment to us. it's not good, and it's not responsible environmental policy. we need more effective climate policy. emissions must be cut in line with commitments. our options deserve fair treatment in parliament too. it is supported by several member states, the european business centre and the whole european trade union movement. a second reading would remove the democratic vacuum that has now been created in this house.
in writing. the eu summit discussed how the china phenomenon of the us economy, or the meltdown of the financial core on wall street, also poisoned the european market with radioactivity. as a result, the world is entering a post-american era. its authority collapsed when it drove the ship of capitalism into the clutches of a hyper-liberal ideology. hopefully, the new state of poverty and debt distress will hasten the end of u.s. military action in the countries it occupies. for what an occupying power the united states is, russia's over-extended military action in south ossetia received a lot of attention. the summit must be welcomed in that the countries on the eu's periphery and the us fundamentalists did not get support for their demands to isolate russia.
in writing. - mr president, i voted against the report by mrs evelyne gebhardt on matrimonial matters because i believe it is important that finnish law should continue to be applied in finnish courts, especially in cases where the application of the law of a foreign country would be in serious conflict with the basic principles of finnish law. i am also very concerned about the proposed guilt assessments in divorce cases. some 20 years ago, in finland, the investigation of adultery or similar acts was abandoned in divorce cases. it would be a great step backwards and a historical waste if this were to be reintroduced.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. divorce is a human tragedy for the parties and for the child. the material content of the applicable procedure and law should therefore be made as clear as possible to the parties. the current situation, where the brussels iia regulation allows the parties to choose between several options of jurisdiction and the applicable law is determined by the conflict-of-law rules of the member state in which the forum is located, does not provide the necessary legal certainty. forum shopping and the racing of lawsuits to get a favourable outcome for the other party are serious side effects. the right of the spouses to choose by mutual agreement the court having jurisdiction and the law applicable would, in my view, support the fact that the content of those decisions should also be examined. it is for this very reason that it is crucial that access to information on content and procedures be facilitated in accordance with amendment no 2. amendment no 1 on the protection of the best interests of the child in the choice of law is also central. i support my group's amendment no 37, which also makes the law of the member state in which the marriage was entered into the law of the member state of the marriage. this is logical and will further facilitate the clarification of the content of the applicable law.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, the us stock market has collapsed, the eu member states have collapsed, russia has collapsed, we are in the same turbo-capitalism crisis. nevertheless, some eu countries, particularly the baltic states, whose presidents have been trained in the usa, and in particular poland, want to isolate russia from the european community. first, the delay in the opening of the negotiations on the association agreement, and now the conflict between georgia and abkhazia with russia. the media in many western countries have given the impression that russia has attacked. that picture is wrong. saakashvili's army attacked and created a world political conflict. he can't be rewarded for that. in these matters, the ppe group in the european parliament is unfortunately a prisoner of its own extremes. of course, russia won a military victory over the saakashvili army, trained by the americans and the israelis and armed by the ukrainians. it was a political overreaction to recognize the independence of south ossetia and abkhazia. russia will bear the political consequences. the consequences of this cannot, in the opinion of our group, include the isolation of russia. european capitalism also needs russia's natural resources, and russia needs europe's political experience with democracy, civil liberties and the rule of law. these objectives are not achieved through political violence but through cooperation and dialogue. this is probably the question at the heart of the discussions in helsinki today between the us and russian military chiefs of staff, general mike mullen and nikolai makarov. the eu should not boycott the dialogue. we wish success to the positive efforts of the presidency to build cooperation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the question now is how quickly we can move on and stabilise the situation again. we need to cooperate with russia too, that is the starting point, and in fact quite a number of the objectives of russia are similar to those of our lisbon treaty. president medvedev has said that institutional reforms are needed - true. infrastructure reforms, that's the second point, the third point is investment. similar to what we know, and innovation, much more familiar to us, if you will. these are common things, they want to contribute to the solution of the international financial crisis, they have little capital to do so. so they do not want to be isolated, and when russia does not want to be isolated, it is clear that we must respond by cooperating with them so that we can turn russia in the direction we want. russia does not want to talk about ideology, today the european union is talking about ideology. we want democracy there, that's our ideology. russia wants practical solutions and it is probably good to combine the two and move forward in this way. so we need another 'i' - integration between us - after these four 'i's' of medvedev, with which we can influence the future of russia, also from our own point of view, and contribute to stability.
mr president, i would like to thank you. russia's invasion of georgia is not an isolated incident. what we are seeing is a paradigm shift in russia's relations with its neighbouring states. a paradigm shift that could have major consequences if the eu does not act wisely. we are indeed facing a crossroads, as secretary of state jean-pierre jouyet said. i am concerned that a number of eu leaders are already calling for a return to 'business as usual' in eu relations with russia. they act as if the war in georgia never happened, but there are still russian troops, 8,000 strong, in the occupied territories. the ethnic cleansing is still going on. the eu must send a clear signal and strongly condemn russia's imperialist policy, which sees itself as entitled to protect 'its' citizens by occupying sovereign states. today georgia, tomorrow ukraine, belarus. i'm not sure what to do. i will repeat this at the meeting of the russian delegation in moscow on friday. if the eu starts unconditional negotiations with russia, on the basis of the current situation, then we will be approving russia's actions in georgia and giving russia a blank mandate to continue its imperialist policy. the eu has a duty to help the victims, not the aggressors. i would like to congratulate commissioner benita ferrero-waldner on the proposal for eur 500 million and hope that the donor conference tomorrow will be a success.
in writing. the western world has once again been disappointed in its hopes for russia. after the collapse of the soviet union, it was believed that if russia had abandoned communism, it would have been freed from the shackles of ideology and, at the same time, freed from totalitarianism, authoritarianism, and the persecution of dissenters. it was believed, as it had been many times before, that russia was moving closer to europe and its values. but russia did not become a democratic market economy, but a kind of exploitative capitalist dictatorship in which civil rights are allowed to give way to stronger law. in conversation, it is sometimes difficult to distinguish between naive wishful thinking and calculating pragmatism. the eu member states have reacted to the war in georgia in a wide variety of ways. we must now ask ourselves whether a selective approach to russia, for example, which emphasises economic values, does not jeopardise our common values. the eu is built on shared values and the belief that all practical problems must be solved by negotiation, not war. the institution must be kept alive, so that even the smallest eu members and aspiring members can survive. the common principles must not be the basis for trade relations between the member states and russia.
mr president, the facts speak for themselves: 26% of the eu's total energy consumption and 24% of its carbon dioxide emissions. energy consumption and emissions are increasing by about two percent a year. emissions are deteriorating air quality in many european cities and many regions are experiencing difficulties in meeting community air quality targets. the high development costs have slowed down the growth of demand for low-emission vehicles, which in turn slows down the reduction of the cost of procurement, even though, according to the impact assessment, the reduced fuel cost rules compensate for the potentially higher cost of procurement of low-emission vehicles. these facts about road transport are known to all and it is finally time to react. the cost savings of the proposal for a directive we are now considering are estimated at some eur 21.5 billion, not to mention the environmental benefits. yet it is not a matter of indifference how the objectives set are achieved. we have many examples of double standards created by overlapping legislation, where ideological ambition has created a bureaucratic squirrel wheel in the process of being realised. the rapporteur's proposals, for example, for the eco-label or for the improvement of existing vehicles to be placed under the criteria for new vehicles, would, if implemented, eat away at the cost benefits otherwise achieved by legislation. this is precisely why we should not be so eager in our ambition to solve environmental problems. however, mr jørgensen's intentions have been good and in many respects he has succeeded. increased transparency in public procurement is a good thing, as long as we ensure that information is not misused for populist purposes. similarly, the role of public procurement as a catalyst for the market for environmentally friendly vehicles is likely to be essential. however, i understand my colleagues who are going to vote against this bill tomorrow. the compromise at first reading rarely meets the criteria of democracy, as we have clearly seen in the course of the debate on the climate and energy package in this parliament.
in writing. – climate change and depleting natural resources are important issues in our world today. this initiative is a great start to helping clean our environment and helping make europe more sustainable in the future. this legislation is key if the eu is going to reach its goals of reducing 20% of greenhouse emissions by 2020, increasing energy efficiency by 20%, and using renewable energies for at least 20% of overall consumption. additionally, clean and energy-efficient cars tend to cost more. if the demand for green vehicles increases, this could cause prices to drop so that green cars would be competitive and more affordable to the consumer. it is important that we encourage all europeans to play their part in protecting the environment.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague, mr grossetête, for his excellent report. the reform of the provisions on variations to marketing authorisations is important because it reduces the administrative burden of dealing with them. at the same time, it also guides the use of resources to issues relevant to pharmacovigilance and public health, which is also in the interests of patients who need medicines. the most important criterion is, of course, the patient's best interests. i support the same rules for both national and eu authorisations. at present, the provisions on the granting of marketing authorisations are harmonised independently of the marketing authorisation process, but this has not been the case for variations to marketing authorisations. therefore, it is expected that different member states will have different rules, for example, on the classification of change requests and the change assessment process. it is important for the pharmaceutical industry to continue to be able to submit a complete new marketing authorisation application for a medicinal product already authorised but with a different trade name and a different summary of product characteristics. this is necessary in situations where a medicinal product is being authorised for a new use and it is also clearer to the patient to allow a new name than to use the same trade name for a medicinal product for very different uses. i therefore support amendments nos 4 and 18 on this point. since pharmaceutical companies often supply medicines throughout the eu, it is important that administrative processes in different countries are consistent. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in the member states. i hope that tomorrow's vote in parliament will support grossetête's report and that later this year the member states will also support parliament's view that the reform of the sales licence rules should be completed later this year.
mr president, concerning amendment 9, which my group voted against, it was crucial for the ppe-de group that the democratic process should be completed without any short cuts that create a democratic deficit, especially now that, in the case of emission trading, the parliamentary process cannot be described in a flattering manner. we have seen misleading tricks, manipulation and, finally, the rapporteur ignoring the political will of her own group. this has become even more relevant given the deadlock in the council last week. the ppe-de group has offered a solution to the problem of damaging industry whilst advancing the climate change mitigation. therefore, not only eu industry but also the trade unions are supporting our benchmarking proposal to replace the costly auctioning system. we are all united in the attempt to reduce harmful emissions. there is no doubt about that. the question is how to do it. our first concern must be our planet, but i contend that the measures needed to stop climate change will not be helped by the economic decline of the leading climate-friendly economies leading to unemployment in the eu.
in writing. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to present their opinions on the commission's proposals. the rights and protection of children are at the heart of human dignity. there are numerous threats on the internet against which children need to be protected more effectively than at present. action at community level is justified in this respect. "the heavens" and "the depths of the seas" are still worthy of remembrance. we must also be aware of our own responsibility as parents. i supported all the amendments which stress the importance of information and education for parents, teachers and others who have to deal with children. it is very important to educate parents and thus to promote the responsible use of communication technologies. amendment no 23 is also important, as it also raises the problems of fraud and online cheating and various forms of violent content. the amendment 26 proposals for the introduction of various technical instruments and for the concretization of the responsibility of service providers are justified.
the committee on agriculture has drawn up an opinion. - mr president, the commission's preliminary draft budget under heading 2, which was still being examined by the council, did not correspond to parliament's priorities. it had estimated direct aids and marketing costs for agriculture too narrowly, i.e. eur 2 027 million below the ceiling of the multiannual financial framework. the committee on budgets, on a proposal from the committee on agriculture, revised the estimates. the new budget includes the distribution of fruit and vegetables to schoolchildren and the milk restructuring fund. the first committee had a budget of eur 181 million and the second of eur 600 million. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the power to adopt the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and to adopt the draft budget for the financial year 2000 in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 104c of the treaty. the committee supports the provision of rapid food aid and its financing in accordance with the nature of title 4. this requires interinstitutional negotiations.
for the gue/ngl group honourable member, commissioner, it is fair to say that next year's budget is disciplined. such a low level of income brings order and discipline to the eu and is its law and order. external actions expenditure in heading 4 is sub-allocated according to any budgetary criterion. we all know that the money is not enough for all the purposes which the council considers important, because parliament also has its own legal preferences for the use of this money. there is not much enthusiasm in our group to support the growth of external expenditure as such. we do not support the military rearmament of georgia after its attack on civilians and russian peacekeepers in south ossetia and its appalling defeat. we do not support the council's priorities in the area of the common foreign and security policy. we cannot accept that foreign and security policy should be developed in the direction of a security and defence policy, as if the lisbon treaty had not been abandoned. the member states should be satisfied with athena funding in this area. we do not support aid to iraq, afghanistan and georgia through international organisations without the possibility of monitoring the use of union funds. of course we support support for oppressed peoples such as the palestinians, and at the same time we note that the council's priorities are eating up these important funding sources for parliament. all those involved in the preparation of the budget know that the roof of external action will not last, but will collapse during the budgetary procedure, as happened to the roof of this house last august: we walk over the roof. if it is done by accounting trickery, it is contrary to good budgetary practice and administrative culture in a way that is not transparent to eu citizens, i.e. to the payers of all expenditure. although our group does not feel that we have much confidence in the union's external action, we want the facts to be recognised. that is now the council's job.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank both rapporteurs for their good work, and it is interesting that perhaps politically this term we have found a better consensus than in previous years, even though the elections are coming up; a great thing. i would like to point out one thing, namely that the committee on budgets has come to the conclusion that it is necessary to propose its own budget line for the baltic sea strategy. it's extremely important. the commission is preparing its own baltic sea strategy for next year, but no strategy is meaningless unless it also has funding, and funding is arrangedthrough this channel. it's all about the environment. the baltic sea is a near-dead sea, a disgrace to europe in this sense. we're gonna have to do a lot of procedures. it is a question of relations with russia, it is a question of energy policy, it is a question of shipping, it is a question of the economy, it is a question of very important matters, and through this budget line we can help to put these matters in order.
mr president, i would like to thank the ombudsman and his entire office for the valuable work they have done in promoting good governance and transparency. it is very important for the public that when there is a problem, they can complain about it and be sure that the matter will be dealt with properly and well, and that is what happens. i would also like to thank the ombudsman for having had the courage to fight, sometimes against windmills, to say the least, for greater transparency in the administration of the european union. we know that there is still much, much to be done in this matter. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive.
mr president, i should like to begin by saying that i am pleased that the budget has been voted and passed. of course, as vice-president of the committee on culture and education, i have followed the issues in this area closely and i am pleased that an important project, the european youth olympic festival in tampere, was voted through. it is important to ensure that projects close to the citizens are carried through the budget. it is a way for people to see and experience how the union works in their area. the budgetary aspect is strong, but i must say that in paragraph 134 of the resolution on the european union as a global partner, i suspect that i voted wrong, because i followed the group's list and i do not agree with it in all respects. i think it is perhaps worthwhile to say this here, but in other respects i can say that i am satisfied with this budgetary constraint and i am glad that it has been passed.
the author. - the commissioner, mr glinne, has already said that he is not in favour of the introduction of a european union-wide system of taxation. as many have said, this is not the first time we have taken a stand against the lack of freedom of expression, the suppression of information, the denial of freedom of assembly, the violation of the most basic principles of the rule of law and the banning of opposition activities. the worst enemy of the burmese people is their own government, which, with the support of the military, uses force and violence to force its people into submission to its monopoly. the number of political prisoners in the junta's prisons is increasing. at the same time, the junta is acting against its own people by blocking international emergency aid to natural disaster areas. the international community is left powerless to watch the burmese people die as a result of the inaction of their own leaders and the repressive actions of others. in our statement, we call on the asem summit to press the other countries in the region to press the junta to release political prisoners. we are a bit hypocritical in this demand, because we know that burma is not the only country in the region where human rights are trampled on. our group supports the joint resolution.
mr president, firstly i would like to congratulate both rapporteurs, mrs berès and mr langen, for a very balanced report that studies the subject from the wide angle. secondly, i think that when this report was initiated no one thought how timely it would be at this point. i think it is a sign of the eu’s ability to respond to global challenges, secure competitiveness and create stability. without european monetary union, both the euro countries and the countries outside the euro would have been far more vulnerable to this financial crisis. over the past 10 years, the european central bank has played a very positive role, and this initiative has ensured very stable monetary policy and economic policy that actually made us able to respond in timely fashion to the crisis and to take proactive actions, not only in the eu area, but globally when it comes to discussions of reform of global financial architecture. i think that this is more than a crisis of a financial nature: it is a crisis of decision-making and the rules of the game. what we need now is a firmer european role for supervision and for the european central bank. we need better harmonised regulation for all different financial instruments. we need transparency through proper procedures and, most of all, we need europeans to be very persistent in unity to advance these policies globally. we have to be united because markets have grown beyond our national states’ capabilities, and we need coherent actions nationally, at european level and globally.
in writing. – the gender pay gap is alarmingly high in the eu. there have been some initiatives to decrease it, but the rate at which the gap is shrinking is much too slow. parliament has repeatedly asked the commission to take initiatives. the report on the gender pay gap outlines many specific ways the eu can tackle this problem. it is important to define concepts like ‘pension gap’, ‘direct pay discrimination’, and ‘indirect pay discrimination’ more clearly and in more detail so that we have better tools for dealing with the gender pay gap. we currently are lacking the accurate statistical data that we need to assess the situation. member states and the commission should improve their statistics, but so should private companies. companies should be required to perform regular pay audits and make the results widely available. another way we can help to solve is problem is to add a specific reference to pay discrimination in article 26 (prevention of discrimination) of directive 2006/54/ec. it is simply unacceptable that women in the eu earn on average 15% less than men. as a governing body, we must do something to correct this injustice.
mr president, the eu treaty sets out the objectives of agricultural policy: to develop agriculture, to safeguard farmers' incomes and fair consumer prices, to stabilise the market and to ensure supply. the agricultural health inspection is contrary to all but the first paragraph and would therefore actually require an amendment to the treaty. farmers' subsidies are being cut, contrary to previous promises. consumer prices could go up. restricting intervention buying and abolishing milk quotas would increase market volatility. last year we spent over 500 million euros on export subsidies for the dairy sector. the decoupling of aid from production would reduce production while at the same time obscuring its acceptability. the health check in particular lacks solidarity. the commission proposal does not reflect the principle that sustainable agriculture should be possible even in the most difficult regions, a principle which has been reaffirmed three times by the european council. family farming is too weak a negotiating partner against multinational food waste and global market forces. that is why we need an agricultural policy.
in writing. mr president, there is a growing need to target agricultural support in a way that will steer agriculture towards sustainable development. the existing subsidies are widely understood as simply a wage increase for farmers. the baltic sea is the most polluted by agriculture in the baltic sea countries. by paying agricultural subsidies we are actually adding emissions to groundwater and, through that, to the sea. all sectors of the economy, including agriculture, must participate in environmental policies. it is the only way in which agriculture can justify its existence in the future. why would taxpayers continue to support a harmful industry in nearby areas when pollution can be outsourced by buying imported food? clean water is already a scarce resource. it is only reasonable then that pollution should be paid for and not supported by the common funds. agriculture must actively use the many environmental measures that exist. the recovery of phosphorus and nitrogen is technically feasible and will soon be economically viable. these valuable natural resources and raw materials must be recycled, as other natural resources are.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customer' in the definition of the term 'customer'. this is a necessary and welcome report from the committee on institutional affairs. the subprime crisis has shown that there has been too little information directed at borrowers. this lack of knowledge and understanding has led to consumers not being sufficiently concerned about the risks of insolvency and over-indebtedness. it should also be noted that consumer information and advice has not kept pace with the complexity of financial products. in many cases, adequate financial literacy would reduce the risks of over-indebtedness and defaults. it would also give consumers more scope to compete with credit providers, which would help the market to function. i particularly support the report's call for economic literacy to be more closely integrated into the national curriculum in schools and for the provision of comprehensive economic knowledge to young people at the beginning of their careers who are facing new challenges in the use of income.
mr president, mr commissioner, the world is suffering from the mad money disease. it's an american disease caused by cheap, cheap money. property values have been uniform throughout the world, with investors having a collective market frenzy and a real estate frenzy. through the stock market, both in derivatives and in swaps, the disease spread like a pandemic. it's time for a hangover. the united states is the home of capitalism, where money is the mother tongue and power is exercised by the dictatorship of the market. the state is satanized as the watchdog and the author of the rules, and there are no legal barriers or ethical constraints to the madman's greed for money. it has experienced the largest economic boom in history, which was consumption without savings, and the united states has become the world's largest debtor. then the china phenomenon happened, the reactor of the system, wall street, melted down, and the system was suddenly filled with toxic securities, radioactive debt. they're killing sick banks that are being weakened by speculation. once the profits of the speculator were privatized, now it is the turn of the losses to be socialized, with public debt replacing private debt. the market was free, and capitalism was protected by nothing and no one from itself, the totalitarianism of money. investment banks are like a swarm of locusts in a field. the value of the currency trade in the market is 125 times the value of the money's useful use. most of the loose money is virtual "bribe money" that now returns as a write-off to the balance sheets of banks. there is a threat of a credit crunch, a risk that the debt and banking crisis will turn into a global economic crisis, famine, unemployment and social misery. we know who did it, but the casualty figures are still open.
madam president, i think lots of things have been said about the financial crisis but it is very important to have one viewpoint. we are too self-critical at the moment in this parliament and also too self-critical vis-à-vis the eu institutions. let us not forget that we have had a very radical overhaul of our financial services legislation during the last eight years. we have proper laws. we have proper regulations and the supervisory system has also been improved. of course we could not avoid the crisis, but we were not the birthplace of this crisis: it was born in america. it was born in the united states because of their lack of regulation, their lack of supervision and their lack of proper implementation. we should avoid over-reacting in europe. this is not the proper time to give in, having good impact assessments and a better regulation agenda, as mr bushill-matthews just said. this is the perfect time to have well-targeted, well-prepared proposals and take them through. if we react incorrectly it might have serious consequences. it might even bring a more serious crisis upon us. for example, if we accept legislation which makes it more difficult for financial markets to recover, it is not to the benefit of european citizens. we should now take it coolly and we should try to avoid improper, ill-targeted and ill-prepared legislation and not be too self-critical. the commission should be thanked for bringing through this very important change in european legislation and supervisory regime.
rapporteur. − mr president, this report is part of the simplification package on company law. it is very important that in the european union we try to simplify the environment for companies to flourish and to create growth for the european economy. the aim is to diminish administrative burdens as regards publication and translation obligations of certain types of companies. the proposal is part of the wide-ranging administrative burden reduction exercise; it would free up and redirect business resources and thus enhance the competitiveness of european economies. nowadays, under the first company law directive, companies need to publish certain information in the national gazettes that has to be entered into the member states’ commercial registers. in most cases, publication in the national gazette entails additional costs for the companies without providing any real added value. the objective of this proposal is therefore to remove any additional publication requirements in national law that cause additional costs to the companies. anyhow, the commission leaves flexibility for member states concerning these additional publication requirements. it is still possible for member states to have additional requirements, but these should be covered by the single fee proposed for the new electronic platform. member states should all have electronic platforms containing the full information and providing access to this information in the companies’ electronic file in the register. this would be a cost-effective and easily accessible way of providing all the necessary information regarding the companies. some member states already have these electronic registers and databases, but others do not have this kind of digital database. the most important thing is to introduce the single fee set by the member states that covers all the costs related to the publication and administration requirements. this single fee should also cover any additional national requirements for the publication of information in local and regional newspapers as well. however, the committee on legal affairs also wanted to introduce some flexibility regarding these costs and we now say that, if there are well-founded reasons, it would be possible for member states to have additional fees. regarding the 11th company law directive, this proposal deals with the translation requirements for documents to be filed in the registers of company branches. when registering a branch, companies also have to file certain information in the register of the company branch. this often leads to significant additional costs for companies as they not only have to ensure the translation of certain documents into the language of the member states where the branch is situated, but also have to comply with sometimes excessive requirements for certification and/or notarisation of that translation. so now we are trying to ease translation obligations by having this certification and authorisation abolished. the objective is to reduce the costs for translation and certification to the minimum. this also leads to benefits for companies by achieving a certain reduction in costs while ensuring the reliability of the translations. i agree with the commission proposal and tried to keep my wording as close to the commission proposal as possible. however, it was not possible to reach a consensus based on the commission proposal here in parliament. in the report we introduced some amendments to clarify the practical implementation of the provisions relating to publication costs and translation provisions, and we also introduced some technical amendments in order to ensure correct cross-referencing with the second company law directive. the committee on legal affairs introduced three compromise amendments tabled by several colleagues to the effect that these additional publication requirements may be permitted if they are well-grounded, but we put them into recitals – they are not in the articles. i think it is very important that there is a recommendation in the recitals for the member states to use this flexibility, but we do not call on them to do so. if the member state feels that its companies really need to have this publication in the national gazette – and this is really something that member states wants – they can do that, but we have not put any call to this effect into the articles. the second issue is that i, personally, tried to introduce a transition period, which i still think would be a very good way forward. during the transition period these publication requirements would be there, but once the transition period is over we would have only the electronic database. i think this kind of proposal for a transition period would also be in line with the issue of internet penetration, namely that some member states have better internet penetration than others; maybe after the transition period we could then make sure that there is enough distribution of information in all member states. in this way we could take into account the fact that internet penetration in all the member states is not at the same level.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to make a comment about the procedure. mrs van den burg already said that the french presidency has not behaved very well with this dossier. we have tried to propose several possibilities for trialogue meetings to discuss possible compromises. unfortunately the french presidency is unwilling to come to these meetings. they are unwilling to organise meetings in the council working group in order to discuss the way forward. also they are not present here today to discuss this very important matter. the view of the committee on legal affairs gives a lot of flexibility for the member states. it gives much more flexibility than my personal view. however, the view of the committee on legal affairs is going as far as we can possibly go. this is the only proposal on the table in parliament at the moment. my opinion is that if the council is not able to accept parliament’s view, i.e. the view of the committee on legal affairs – which is to be voted on tomorrow – as we have requested them to do, then we have to go to second reading. we cannot allow council to play us. if this is not accepted in the form voted on tomorrow by parliament, we will certainly have a delay in the process. perhaps we will not have this project ready before the elections and there is a risk perhaps that the commission will withdraw the proposal. i think that it would be very disappointing if council does not have a qualified majority behind it and does not come up with proposals on how to reach a compromise. we would be willing to discuss compromises. i would personally be very happy if the council would propose something in the trialogue meeting on which we could then base the compromise, but it is hiding and not coming to meetings and it is not organising trialogues. it leaves us in a very difficult situation. that is why i am upset about the discussions about the procedure. i hope that the commission does not withdraw the proposal. i hope there will still be an opportunity to have a compromise that would suit all the member states and also the european parliament.
in writing. the global automotive industry is in trouble, but not all factories. porsche has found a new way to make money, and it's used volkswagen stock options as a tool. but it is not the solution to the problems of vw or other car manufacturers. the banking crisis has brought with it the car crisis: in a deflating economy, people cannot afford to buy new cars or fuel for them. the european investment bank wants to save the automotive industry on behalf of the eu, but it needs to reassess whether the world will need all the capacity that exists today to produce cars. the eib's lending to new energy and environmental technologies would better meet the real needs of the world at this moment. the loose money with which consumers bought new cars in recent years is no more and will not be again.
in writing. europe needs more than less skilled labour from outside the eu, now and in the future. in order to compete with the us for highly educated immigrants, the eu must increase its attractiveness. the facilitation of the mobility of workers from outside the eu is a step in the right direction and i would therefore like to thank mrs ewa klaum for her excellent report. the 'blue card' facilitates the mobility of skilled workers from third countries within the eu. the eu's attractiveness cannot be enhanced at the expense of developing countries. unfortunately, brain drain often takes away the know-how needed for development from developing countries, and the eu should clearly take this problem into account when creating new rules. the development of european higher education must also be actively pursued, even if people already trained are readily available elsewhere. the new rules for immigrants must not lead to significant inequalities between third countries and eu citizens. parliament's strict definitions of skilled labour create an unequal situation by imposing unreasonable requirements on third country nationals with regard to their educational and work background. the european union as a whole is threatened by a shortage of labour, not just in the higher education sectors. the eu should therefore extend the facilitation of labour mobility from third countries to the whole of the worker's life rather than just the icing on the cake.
for the verts/ale group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great thing that the agreement on the ban on grapefruit has been reached. it is very important that all eu countries join the agreement, including finland, greece and poland, otherwise we will give other countries too easy a pretext to continue using these inhuman weapons. i am very sorry that my own country, finland, is going to be excluded from the agreement. this is justified by the fact that grape guns have been acquired to replace another type of inhumane weapon, landmines. but this is like casting out the devil with beelzebub. in the late 1990s, when the finnish government decided on a timetable for the elimination of landmines, the army did not say that it was going to replace them with another killer of civilians, grape guns. the eu and all eu countries must now be consistent in their opposition to cluster munitions and must also reject all military operations involving cluster munitions. it's estimated that up to 98% of the victims of the rifle attacks are civilians. we have a lot more than 20 years of experience that these weapons kill randomly selected civilians, including children. it's time to end this.
mr president, the challenges of demographic change are particularly acute in the less populated areas of the north. migration is taking away the young and educated population and the share of the ageing population is again growing rapidly. this will, among other things, lead to increased costs for the provision of social and health services, which will be further accentuated by the long distances involved. however, new technologies and innovations have enabled the creation of new services to help the ageing population and which can be used throughout the union. one way of turning challenges into opportunities is also through effective regional policy. an effective regional policy can unlock the potential of regions, create new jobs and add value to europe as a whole. at the same time, demographic trends can be changed for the better.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, mr commissioner, mr president of the court of auditors, mr siim kallas, vice-president of the commission, has done a good job in general in evaluating the development of eu financial supervision, in particular in improving the transparency of the administration. the publicity of agricultural subsidies is a good example of this. the court of auditors agrees with this in part. there are, of course, some points to be noted, particularly on the use of agricultural and regional policy subsidies. they are the responsibility of the member states. the court's report may show a division: the northern net beneficiary countries are slightly cleaner, the southern net beneficiary countries are less prone to abuses. of course, the distribution is also affected by the volume of money. there's more to share and control in the south than in the north. in order to avoid false generalizations, it is important that the court of auditors accurately indicate in its reports where possible abuses have occurred, so that there is no ambiguity and no false generalizations. i would like to draw attention to activities which are outside the jurisdiction of the court of auditors and which are also a grey area from a national point of view. the athena fund, set up in 2004, is a community fund, which is under the jurisdiction of the member states but not the eu. member states contribute to the fund from their own defence budgets to finance joint military operations outside the eu's competence. they operate on the one hand in accordance with the nato principle that 'costs lie where they fall'. on the other hand, there's this athena whose funding is classified. such a military operation by eu countries should be subject to democratic control. during the examination of the court of auditors' report, our group will pay particular attention to the legality of the council budget, which has hitherto been a grey area from the parliament's point of view.
i would like to thank the court of auditors and commissioner siim kallasta for their important work on behalf of the european taxpayer. the eu accounts allow a margin of error of 2%. i would see that particularly salaries, rents and other administrative costs should be able to be done with much greater precision. there should be no ambiguity about these. however, there are other cost groups where this 2% accuracy can be difficult to achieve. for example, the costs of regional policy are currently being talked about at much higher levels. it may take courage to admit that zero tolerance is not realistic in these cost groups. the future will require much more cost-efficient operations, a simplified application procedure and the possibility of transferring responsibility and decision-making powers to the national level. this is in the interest of the european taxpayer and i hope that the court of auditors will act effectively in this respect.
mr president, mr commissioner, the fragile peace in somalia is today manifesting itself in the actions of professional pirates. the same attention has not been given to the case now being raised in the european parliament - the stoning of aisha ibrahim duhulow. it may be considered an even greater tragedy than the actions of pirates. it gives you a picture of a country living in the islamic middle ages. the joint motion for a resolution perhaps gives too explicit support to the federal transitional government of somalia. the igad council, meeting the other day, condemns the reluctance of the somali government to act on its commitments and peace policy. representatives of other countries in the region say the government lacks the political will and willingness to commit to peace, and that is the biggest challenge in combating insecurity. however, the resolution of parliament is important for aisha and that is why our group can accept it. we will not give the somali government a clean slate in the peace process.
in writing. mr president, in this week's urgent resolutions, the somali case in particular is shocking. three weeks ago, a 13-year-old girl, aisha ibrahim duhulow, was stoned to death in the country after being raped by three men. the men were unharmed, but the girl was convicted of harlotry under sharia law. the stoning took place in a stadium in kismayu, southern somalia, in front of 1,000 spectators, with 50 men carrying out the stoning. in addition, the taliban have been accused of using violence against civilians to undermine the peace process in the drc. the harsh and inhumane interpretation of sharia law that adultery is punishable by death by stoning has taken on unimaginably cruel proportions; it has resulted in the murder of an innocent child who was the victim of a crime. it is important that we condemn the execution and stoning and call on the somali government and the african union to do the same and to take concrete steps as soon as possible to prevent the continuation of the stoning. while we support the efforts of the somali government to take control of the city of kismayu, we must also demand that the government bring the rapists in duhulowi to justice. as the resolution on somalia states, eu member states should increase their aid to somalia in order to bring about a democratic government and to give the government the support it needs in its efforts to take control of all areas of the country.
mr president, the summit is considering how to bring the lisbon treaty into force. one key to the solution would be for each member state to retain its own commissioner. i hope that this is something that will be seriously considered and implemented. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the argument that the commission is too big if each member state has a commissioner has not been sustainable either. i think it would bring the member states closer together and increase their legitimacy, and i would hope that in this case reason could be used to overturn previous decisions, especially when they have not been entirely rational.
for the alde group mr president, i would like to thank mr mitchell for a good report. my group has always supported the provision of emergency food aid. the commission proposed eur 1 billion in july. unfortunately, it did not respect the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline. this was surprising, given that the commission is traditionally the guardian of the treaty and the rule of law. it was only in the course of the budgetary conciliation that the commission adjusted its proposal to comply with the legislation in force and that agreement was reached. the french presidency has much to be thanked for having succeeded in persuading the member states to support food aid. of the one billion euro in food aid, 760 million euro is new money, which is a clear win for the european parliament. the problem is the inheritance of the grant. the worst suspicions are that only part of the aid will arrive, while the rest will be left behind. this problem must be strictly controlled. the problem of agriculture in developing countries is not the availability of fertilisers or seeds but the lack of training and the rudimentary nature of working methods and equipment. it will not be solved in one year with a billion euros. the food aid is therefore above all a cry of urgency for development cooperation to shift its focus to agricultural development and the strengthening of food production. agriculture in developing countries is often carried out under difficult conditions, characterized by rough soils and a harsh climate. these conditions require exceptional skill and sophisticated methods. this is why vocational training must be developed. there's hardly any of that these days. production methods must be adapted to the constraints of poverty. jumping from human-powered steam engines straight into high-tech tractors is not appropriate at all. it's true for agricultural development: you have to climb the tree from the trunk.
in writing. – equal opportunity for women and men is an important part of the copenhagen criteria. countries in the balkans have much work to do in this area. candidate countries should strive to make their antidiscrimination and gender equality laws equal to those of the acquis communautaire. issues that require special attention in the balkans include: increasing health care, increasing the representation of women in government, protecting women from domestic violence, eliminating sex crimes, and implementing stronger antidiscrimination strategies. these problems certainly exist within the eu member states as well. we should constantly be striving for better equality between women and men. but candidate states have to pay special attention to rectifying these problems before it is possible for them to join the european union.
mr president, i am speaking english for the first time in this plenary because i hope that the french presidency will listen to me. unfortunately, the present model for effort-sharing proposed by the council would mean that the european union would reduce emissions mainly outside the eu through cdm/ji. it would mean moving up to 70% of the emission reductions elsewhere, mainly to developing countries. this would totally undermine the credibility of our climate policy. an absolute red line for parliament is a 50% limit for offsetting, which would ensure that the majority of our emissions reductions are domestic. this 50% limit has always been a cornerstone of the eu climate policy, through the long years of the kyoto negotiations. the high cdm quota proposed by the council would mean a u-turn in eu climate policy. this would give too easy an argument for everybody who wants to diminish and blacken eu climate policy. the ipcc says that the industrialised countries should reduce domestic emissions by 25 to 40% and developing countries by between 15 and 30% compared to business as usual. we cannot double-count emission reductions. if we want to offset the majority of our emission reductions, then de facto we demand more from developing countries than from ourselves. it is very hard to see how this would help international negotiations and i really hope that the french presidency understands this basic point of international climate policy.
mr president, the better use of renewable energy and the promotion of sustainable development is a positive thing for the regions. in addition to positive climate impacts, it will bring jobs to the regions and improve energy availability. however, regional differences need to be better taken into account. for example, the cold climate of the north and the central role of the forestry industry must be better reflected in final decisions. i would also like to point out that there are many forested areas in the northern region, where wood and sustainable peat are of great importance for the production of energy in the north. i hope that this will also be taken into account when the decisions are being finalised.
i would like to emphasize, mr president, what many of you have already done before me, namely that, when we talk about the decisions under negotiation, we must remember that they only implement decisions taken by the heads of government in march 2007. and the level of ambition must be such that it achieves the decisions already made. in this context, what commissioner dimas said here about the relationship between flexibility and effective implementation is extremely important. we need action within the european union and i want to support rapporteur satu hass in that we have a duty to make decisions within the european union. only in this way can we redeem what many of us are talking about, namely, overcoming the economic crisis through eco-innovation and by investing in new technology, new development. if we do not set these standards for ourselves, industry will not be encouraged to go out and develop new technology. that is why i am a little concerned about giving special flexibility to some countries, because in the worst case they will be cutting their own ankle, that is, they will not be able to benefit from the technological advantages that other eu countries are getting.
mr president, we are well aware that there is no unanimity in parliament on the climate package. on many issues my own group is closer to the council's position than parliament's. it is important to remember, however, that we are in complete agreement on the reduction of emissions: emissions must be cut. it is a method: others want to do it at a high price by auction, we want to do it in a cost-effective way by benchmarking. the green party representative stated directly in the negotiations that he wanted prices to rise in order to change consumption patterns. our group does not believe in this logic as long as emissions trading is unilateral. until then, it's just a tax. if the scope of emissions trading were global, auctioning would be a good alternative. the price of emission allowances would be easily transferable to consumer prices, which would guide the choice of the cleanest product. perhaps entire coal-intensive industries would be pushed into the background. unfortunately, that's not how the consumer environment works now. non-eu products that are produced in a dirtier way gain a competitive advantage in global markets. it is a crucial issue for jobs. i hope that the council will be able to improve the outcome sufficiently.
in writing. the ets has two options. there's the broker model on one side and the industry model on the other. the broker model creates a threefold leverage for those who don't need the emission allowances for production but who buy them to sell them to the production companies at a high price. they can buy the rights in auctions, in the secondary market in the emission allowance exchanges, and even manipulate them in the electricity exchanges. once you have the allowances, you can also trade them on otc markets, completely off the exchanges. therefore, a model of industry free from speculation should be chosen, where the emission reduction targets are achieved by benchmarking the best available technology (bat) to create the reduction standards.
in writing. mr president, rarely has eu legislation affected so many people. the european parliament has given millions of employees a christmas present: either an improvement in their working conditions or the first european directive on working conditions. the committee on employment and social affairs set a good example by improving the commission's proposal by a clear majority. the definition of working time has a social dimension. too many european wage-earners work 60 or 65 hours a week while millions are unemployed. long working weeks are often based on a seeming freedom of choice. the worker is free to choose between a long working week and a job. even after these improvements, the directive would still contain sufficient derogations to allow for flexibility. the committee accepted my amendment, which means that the directive will cover workers in management positions. the boss needs the protection of the law, too. the boss may get tired, too. the council and the commission have not agreed to reconsider their position on the question of duty-free hours. common sense says that time spent at work, on standby, awake or asleep, is always working time. the european parliament receives its credentials directly from the citizens of europe. it is therefore also obliged to think in the best interests of its citizens in this respect.
in writing. i am glad that the heads of state found the only sensible and correct solution to the commissioner's problem. the commissioner himself is a major point of contact for the smaller member states in particular. france has a population of over 60 million and 38 ministries. the eu has almost 500 million citizens. how is it possible that the commission cannot accommodate a commissioner for each country, even if a few more member states join? thank you!
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on regional development. - mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the great work he has done. the sustainable and increased use of renewable energy sources is a positive thing for the regions. it creates new jobs, improves energy self-sufficiency and is also an important part of climate change management. it also promotes the global market for machinery and equipment for renewable energy production. the committee on regional development stressed the crucial role of the regions and local authorities in implementing the directive. this will require a lot of cooperation, the exchange of good practices, as well as research, product development and pilot projects. conditions and climatic factors vary widely between member states and regions. this is also reflected in the compromise proposal which, among other things, makes possible the sustainable use of peat in small quantities in production processes, as proposed by our committee. it is important that we can accept the compromise reached on this directive as part of the historic climate and energy package.
mr president, thank you to all the rapporteurs. a lot is happening: the union has been putting an end to the war in georgia, we have begun to manage the major financial crisis, and now we are drawing up an energy package, which is no small thing either. there is an agreement on which industries will receive emission allowances. it is important that there should be no investment gap and consequent unemployment. it would have happened in addition to the financial crisis, which would have been a fatal combination. at the same time, employment will be boosted by the fact that industry will not be relocated and energy efficiency will increase, which requires technologies. i am pleased that our proposal to use the period 2005-2007 as the reference period was accepted because it creates fairness. europe is now leading the change, based on solidarity also with those who are not as energy efficient as they are today.
i would like to thank all those who have worked so hard in parliament on the climate package. i particularly commend the secretariat, whose diligence has been impressive and whose workload has been enormous and would in no way fit within the limits of human working time legislation. we now have a very satisfactory and environmentally ambitious result, and as is always the case, the credit for this goes to the council, not so much to parliament. the council corrected some serious problems that were hidden in the commission's proposal. although there is still much to be uncovered, and only time will tell. our own group had a significant influence on the outcome, although it was not reflected in the position of the committee on the environment. now it's in the council's position and the outcome. our alternative emissions trading model allowed for a change in public opinion and a free debate. we have thus helped and encouraged the council to find its way towards the benchmark method. i would therefore like to thank the member states, including my own country, finland, for having followed the diverse votes in this parliament with a sensitive ear and for having noticed the change that has taken place in parliament. the council's efforts here were much more supported than it appeared on the surface. the main objective of climate policy is to achieve a balanced, global agreement. nothing else is an environmentally responsible starting point. this is how we can ensure that reductions in one place do not lead to an increase in emissions in another place, otherwise the sacrifices would be wasted. unfortunately, there are now voices in the environmental movement that would be willing to go down this road of destruction. experience has shown that unilateral austerity and climate puritanism are not welcomed by the environment, because they do not produce results. we need a broad front and fair play. legislation is needed to motivate companies to compete for the lowest emission technology and to reward rather than punish them for it. i am particularly pleased that we are sticking to the 20% reduction target, and that we can say that neither parliament nor the council has watered down anything.
in writing. the emissions trading directive currently before parliament represents a greenwashing of capitalism and is nevertheless capitalism itself: casino capitalism and the legalisation of speculation. the commission's original proposal, which is designed to ensure that european industry is not directly exposed to speculation other than through the price of electricity, i shall vote in favour of, even though i am against, the emissions trading scheme. i support the emissions targets, but they were supposed to be achieved by taxation, not speculation.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation and i would also like to thank the commission and the french presidency for the great work they have done. but i have to say, i'm not entirely satisfied. the eu was to show strong global leadership with this climate package. unfortunately, the leadership was badly watered down when france, as the presidency, made the decision subject to unanimity among the member states. almost every prime minister went to the summit with a national goal of waterboarding the climate package, and succeeded. the end result is, of course, a step forward, but a much, much smaller step than science tells us to take. the biggest problem with the effort sharing decision is that it gives member states far too few rights to neglect emission reductions at home and to compensate for this by funding projects in developing countries. in the worst case, this can only lead to stabilizing domestic emissions, keeping them unchanged. the result of the negotiations, however, preserves the good basic structure of the commission proposal: a linear emission trajectory and binding annual emission ceilings, a first in eu legislation. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the manufacture of certain products. let me now mention some of these improvements. the 30% reduction target, following an international agreement, is now being legislated. member states shall immediately start planning and reporting on the more demanding emission reduction measures. there should be a clear incentive for member states to stay within the legal emission limits, as exceeding the limit will lead to an increased reduction in the quota for the following year. the qualitative criteria for cdm credits are being tightened. following the international agreement, the eu commits to assisting developing countries in reducing emissions in a way that is consistent with limiting climate change to below two degrees. there will be a time limit for limiting emissions from shipping. if the imo fails to reach an international agreement by 2011, the eu will take its own legislative action. these are all major improvements and are based on parliament's demands. i therefore recommend supporting this package in the final vote, although i also support the amendments proposed by my group and the gue group to reduce the cdm emission allowance quota in such a way as to ensure that the majority of the emission reductions are made in europe. for better or worse, this decision means that the real decision on whether the eu will make emissions cuts in a way that responds to the climate research message will only be made after international treaty negotiations. secondly, this decision means that it is the member states' own political responsibility to decide how much emissions are actually reduced in europe. i urge member states not to outsource the majority of their emission reductions to developing countries, but to invest green at home in public transport, railways and more energy-efficient buildings, while creating green jobs in europe. we must remember that the earth is not compromising, the planet's deadlines are unconditional, and the most costly thing economically is to water down and delay emissions cuts.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr hass, and all those who have been involved in the negotiations on this difficult directive. it is clear that the sectors outside the ets also need strict, realistic targets, because they can do a particularly great deal to help us achieve an energy-efficient society. the sectors covered by this directive, such as construction, transport, agriculture and waste management, are areas where we have the opportunity to develop new skills, and indeed to a large extent we already have those skills. when there is a sufficiently strong legal framework, this expertise is also put to use. in this sense it was excellent that parliament could very clearly include energy efficiency in this directive.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this debate. as i said, this decision is a step in the right direction, although it is a much shorter step than i would have hoped. i support the resolution, but i would still comment on the biggest problem that remains, flexibility. why is the beautiful word "flexibility" a problem? it seems that many governments have not fully understood what the ipcc guideline means. the un's intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) has called for industrial countries to reduce their absolute emissions by 25-40% by 2020. in addition, developing countries must reduce their emissions by between 15% and 30% compared to normal levels. these figures refer to the emission reductions in the respective countries' own territory. if we transfer more than half of our own emissions reductions to developing countries, we increase the amount of emissions reductions needed in developing countries to such an extent that it becomes physically impossible. it is a wider lack of understanding that road transport cannot be increased indefinitely, because a very significant part of the emissions under this effort sharing decision comes from road transport. as i said in my opening speech, i hope that governments will do more than what this decision allows and invest in reducing emissions in their own countries. this will bring about permanent reductions in emissions, not those that have to be bought back from abroad every year, and it will also bring jobs home.
rapporteur. − mr president, i have had the pleasure of being the rapporteur on this topic of settlement finality in payment and securities settlement systems and the directive on financial collateral arrangements. i am leaving parliament tomorrow – this will be my last legislative report for the european parliament – so please accept my sincere apologies if i am a little bit emotional tonight. this is not the most political of items. sometimes what we do in the european parliament is quite technical, but i am absolutely sure that this directive, this legislation, will also help europe to go forward. the aim of this legislation is to update the directives in line with the latest market and regulatory developments. the main change brought about by the settlement finality directive is to extend the protection of the directive to cover night-time settlement and settlement between linked systems; this is very important, since the number of links and the need for interoperability have lately increased immensely. the mifid directive, on which i also had the honour to be rapporteur in this house, and the european code of conduct on clearing and settlement systems are expected to become increasingly operable, and that means that we have more need to coordinate our settlement and financial collateral arrangements. regarding the financial collateral directive (fcd), it is very important to accept credit claims as financial collateral. the european parliament also wanted to extend the scope of what is accepted as collateral to interbank credit claims. for me it was acceptable for credit for micro-enterprises and small enterprises to be excluded, like consumer credits. the establishment of a harmonised legal framework for the use of credit claims as collateral in cross-border transactions helps enhance market liquidity and ensures the proper functioning of settlement systems in rapidly evolving markets. the new directives also introduce several simplifications and clarifications and definitions. these solutions will make an important contribution to strengthening the tools for managing instability in financial markets. my aim was to reach a compromise at first reading, so we were negotiating with the council and commission the whole time. i have also negotiated with other political groups, with ms berès and ms starkevičiūtė especially, in order to achieve a compromise that could satisfy everyone in the parliament. i am very happy that the report was unanimously accepted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. in the end i am also quite content with the compromise that will be voted during this week’s part-session. on most of the issues the negotiations went well and we agreed on the basic lines of this legislation. however, there were a few controversial issues as well and i did not get all the goals through. during the negotiations i was not able to get the support for the econ proposal to amend the definition of the system which would have made it possible to grant the protection of the directive to systems based on the ecb legal act, and would have allowed the european central bank to designate such systems itself. i am happy that the european commission stated during the negotiations that it is in principle in favour of such an amendment and will probably table a proposal to this effect in the near future. regarding the financial collateral directive and the notifications, i could have wished that all the member states had already abolished the notification requirements, which in my view only add bureaucracy and do not advance any particular objective; however, as i learned that this issue was extremely sensitive to some member states i am quite satisfied that we got a review clause written in. i think that after five years the few member states that still want to request these ex-ante notifications can be persuaded to end this unnecessary practice. as i mentioned already, i am happy that we were able to find a compromise that we could all agree on. i hope that you, my fellow colleagues, will vote on this legislation on thursday. finally, i would like to say that it has been a pleasure to work with all of you during these years. it is my 20th legislative report and it will be the last. i shall miss this parliament, this house, and all of you.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for their kind words and also the commissioner for his cooperation over the years. i would like to make a couple of political points, firstly about the code of conduct for clearing and settlement. i do not think the time is right to make the final judgement on the delivery of the code. this has been one of the reasons why some of the market participants have been against the development of links and interoperability. they say that there are problems in settlement finality and also with the coordination of different rules. i think that when we now accept this directive it will make it easier for market participants to accept links and interoperability with their systems. the second issue concerns the ecb. i think that we can cooperate more with the commission, especially in creating a community approach to different topics. we already have a practical development which leads to community systems, and the ecb has been creating network-based systems which do not operate under any particular member state law. it would be stupid not to take this everyday practical development on board when we are trying to update european laws. so i am very happy that the commission will be taking a look at this issue. perhaps the time will be right during the next parliamentary term to make these ecb-established systems part of the settlement finality directive. finally, concerning the hague convention, we have seen how difficult it is to agree on details when this has to be done through european community directives. it is very important to go forward with the hague convention and with the negotiations on different private law issues. it was particularly difficult to try to find a compromise on moments of entry and moments of revocation. these are very small items, but i think that the commission is also moving ahead on those important topics, maybe during the next term.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the final payment appropriations in next year's draft budget are exceptionally low. the money will be sufficient for payments, with the same repayment policy as in previous years. the commission does not implement the budget in full. yesterday parliament decided to reimburse the member states almost five billion out of the six that were not used for payments this year, although it was budgeted to be used. next year's budget included a billion for food aid. since the commission put it forward, the price of food has been cut in half and the eu will soon have to intervene in its own production. there are a million hungry people in the world and we need help, but the basis of the commission's proposal is six months old. the budget was accompanied last week by a commission pr and propaganda exercise for the eu member states' economic recovery programme. it's a budget stunt and a crisis light treatment. the eu's share of five billion means that money is being transferred from moment to moment without the member states being committed to putting new, fresh money at the disposal of the eu. it is not a genuine revival to repair the ravages of globalization. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of money laundering. the eu commission and council are not prepared to decide on such actions.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mr haug and mr lewandowsk, and the coordinators for their very responsible and good work. i would also like to thank president böge, whose strong role has helped us to achieve such a good result. we are living in momentous times, the economic crisis is on the horizon and we have to ask ourselves how to give the citizens the right signals about the european parliament. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr lewandowsky, for not using the whole 20% increase. it is a sign that we are aware of our responsibility to the taxpayer. given that next year will be an election year and that members of parliament will have a new statute, this has been a very challenging work and the result is very good. i would like to draw attention to one specific point in mr haug's report, which concerns the new budget heading for the baltic sea strategy. the matter has been discussed and i am glad that it was decided, because it is an opportunity, it is a great step towards improving the state of the baltic sea. as the commission prepares the baltic sea strategy for next year, it is important that the budget also includes a budget line on this subject. the strategy is not relevant if it exists only on paper, but we also have to create content for the strategy, and once the commission has completed its work, it will of course be easier for us to create content for the budget line concerned. we also know that sweden will make the baltic sea strategy a priority during its presidency, so this is the right moment to include this in the budget. i would therefore like to draw the attention of my colleagues to this important issue and to one of the priorities for the coming year.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mrs haug and mr lewandowsk, for their excellent work. i would also like to thank commissioner grybauskaitė and also his closest assistant, mr romero, for their good cooperation throughout the year and for the constructive contribution of the presidency to the preparation of the budget. i would just like to touch on one point, namely the structural funds. we have returned funds to the member states in various forms this year in the form of unused appropriations. in supplementary budget number two we reprogrammed eur 2.8 billion and in supplementary budget number nine we reimbursed eur 4.5 billion in unused payments. against this background, it is astonishing that the commission is proposing a €5 billion rescue package at the same time as it has not even used the budgeted funds for structural policy. the reason is the management and control system, which is very complex. in most countries it is still not accepted. the european parliament presented a joint declaration in the conciliation process, recognising the need for simplification and the structural shortcomings. the commission and the council did not wish to agree with this statement. however, the european council adopted a very nearly word for word approach, and it is worth stressing that simplification and efficiency are really necessary.
in writing. - i take this opportunity to thank my colleagues for the recent vote in which the european parliament explicitly supported my benchmark model, which i have long advocated and first proposed for the application of emissions trading. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. and that is a good thing: the commission's original proposal and the environment committee's position on emissions trading were both unbalanced in placing european production in a difficult competitive position on the world market without giving any particular climate benefit. in addition to jobs, this would have been a clear loss for the environment, as it would have created pressure to shift production to countries outside the emission limits. now the decision opened the door to a more equitable and environmentally sustainable approach. however, everything is still open and now the verification of the sources of the improvements received will begin. the environmental objectives are unchanging and challenging. this is not an easy goal for industry, but it is not easy to be part of it. in any case, it is pointless to talk about free allowances, because the benchmarks are ambitious. it must be, because otherwise there will be no system to get companies to compete for the lowest emission technology. the environmental movement's complaint about the watered-down package seems to me, frankly, unreasonable, given that the targets are being met and that the industrial sectors have a decreasing emission ceiling. that's irresponsible talk, but not everyone is interested in taking responsibility. it's enough to step foot in the world.
in writing. - if the council of ministers' proposal had been passed by parliament, up to tens of millions of workers in the eu would have been excluded from working time protection. that is why i voted in favour of parliament's first reading opinion! the council's position on the regulation of working time for academic staff would have been a giant leap backwards. it is unacceptable that the council should have excluded senior officials, among others, who are currently about 130 000 in finland, from the whole of the working time protection. the eu's internal market needs clear common rules on working time. the council's position would have destroyed the protection of working time and would have threatened the development of european working life as a whole.
in writing. - mr president,i would like to give an explanation of vote on the opt-out principle of the working time directive. first, the purpose of the act is to protect workers. not only is burnout a human problem, it also reduces productivity. improving the conditions for reconciling work and family life is strongly linked to european values, and working time is one of the factors. the working time restrictions are therefore well founded. secondly, we should be able to take account of the circumstances of each case; flexibility is important for both workers and employers. flexibility also improves work-life balance. i supported the 48-hour week, but i think it is very important to have a sufficient period of equalization. i think a balancing period is a better solution to ensure flexibility than an opt-out. it should be emphasised that finland has not seen the need to use the opt-out option and it is a good thing.
in writing. the european union is one of the most important international actors in the field of human rights. the union's role as a champion of human rights, a provider of development aid and a defender of democratic values is remarkable. the eu's annual human rights report, which has just been published, provides an overview of the union's multifaceted work in the field of human rights. the eu's 2008 human rights report highlights many positive steps towards the global realization of human rights. unfortunately, these steps are still small in relation to the overall situation and a considerable amount of work is needed to achieve the equal realization of fundamental human rights throughout the world. speaking last week on the 60th anniversary of the un declaration of human rights, un secretary-general ban ki-moon reminded that the declaration of human rights is as urgently needed today as it was in 1948: "the challenges we face today are as daunting as those that confronted the declaration's drafters". despite the many important tasks it has to perform, the eu has reason to pause and take a serious look at its human rights record. unfortunately, eu human rights policy still lacks the determination, coherence and long-term vision expected of a strong human rights actor. the deterioration of the international human rights situation must be stopped. as a values-based association of states, the eu has a special responsibility to ensure the global realisation of human rights. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
for the alde group mr president, i too would like to say a few words about this excellent report. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr andersson, and also the other speakers, and in particular our good commissioner, mr figeľ. it is important that we talk about vocational training, because we have all decided that europe has an internal market. if we want a functioning internal market, that means we also need a functioning, well-educated labour force, and that is how we can ensure that when we build europe, not only the economic aspect but also other aspects of work and skills are realised. this report concerns not only education but also culture and employment, and we have also decided on vocational skills in the context of the bologna and copenhagen processes, which are also worth taking into account in this context. i would like to raise one question very strongly. i know that education is very much a matter for the member states, but at european level we can encourage the member states to take action to ensure that the quality of vocational education and training, the quality of education and training and the outcomes of education are actually guaranteed. this is very important for mobility. we must remember that investment in education leads to a good, quality and skilled workforce, even as we face the threat of economic recession. it is a key factor when we want to generate new innovation, new know-how, and when we want to strengthen the foundations of our economy and thereby increase gdp. today's decision-makers often forget that education is the key to building a better future and strengthening the foundations of our own economy. this is the message we should be sending to the member states and their decision-makers and encouraging them to act on these issues from within the european union. we need a functioning and high-quality labour market and a skilled workforce.
author. − madam president, i would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur for his profound work. counterfeiting and copyright piracy are a drain on the economy in europe and worldwide, and virtually no industry escapes this illegal activity. it is responsible for damaging legitimate business and especially, in the view of the imco committee, it is a source of consumer detriment. the problem is serious and is growing more serious, yet counterfeit and pirated goods continue to be freely available within the internal market. to combat counterfeit and piracy, we have, firstly, to enhance enforcement, helping customs authorities to detect it, and to make agreements to undermine counterfeiting and piracy at the point where infringement originates. action is also required to keep the internet from becoming an even more prominent distribution channel for counterfeit and pirated products by strengthening remedies to more effective redress. secondly, we need public awareness campaigns. too often, consumers are unaware of the scale and repercussions of the problem. the lives of consumers are put at risk by dangerous products, especially fake medicines. government-led campaigns should increasingly focus on the social costs of counterfeit and piracy, such as health and safety. thirdly, we need more data-gathering, assessment and research. comprehensive and comparable data are vital for both legal enforcement efforts and awareness campaigns. this year, the committee on the internal market and consumer protection agreed the new goods package, which created the new framework for market surveillance and for the enforcement of all eu law to ensure the safety of goods available on the internal market. earlier in this legislative period, we adopted a modernised customs code and instruments to help create an effective and paperless customs. in this way we have sought to enhance the operational efficiency of customs authorities at the external borders of the eu – the last buffer of protection – preventing the entry onto the internal market of counterfeit goods. fighting counterfeiting and piracy is an issue that should continue to be at the top of our political agenda. in parliament we call for the commission to cooperate with governments, customs authorities, industry and consumers in all eu member states. we must take action together if we are to fight it effectively. with this debate this evening, we challenge the commission to deliver a coherent and coordinated approach to tackling counterfeiting and piracy. only in this way can we ensure the trust and confidence of consumers in the products on sale in the internal market.
in writing. - mr president, i voted in favour of the directive on toy safety, because it is a valuable improvement. on the one hand, it will be more effective in safeguarding the safety of toys and thus the health of children by introducing new bans on allergens and cmr substances, heavy metals and parts which present a risk of choking. on the other hand, it is also a successful and balanced compromise, which takes into account the fact that a significant proportion of the 2000 eu toy manufacturers are prudent and bear their manufacturer's responsibility they should not suffer from the irresponsibility of some importers. this year in particular, the toy directive is a signal of the union's will and ability to protect consumers and the most vulnerable effectively. it may be worth remembering, however, that even good legislation cannot absolve parents of responsibility. the toy directive alone cannot guarantee that the contents of gift packages are in the best interests of the child.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the nirj deva report on peacebuilding and the development of state structures in post-conflict situations, as it comprehensively raised the issues relevant to successful reconstruction. this is an important issue, since half of the countries that have survived conflict will be back in conflict within five years. in addition to the country's precarious situation, the international community is an important player in the development of state structures. i consider particularly important the need to consult and support more strongly local women's organisations and international peace networks, and to emphasise the rights and access to justice for victims of sexual violence. furthermore, it is good to remember that the mere absence of war does not mean peace. the key to a successful reconstruction policy is to address the root causes of instability through socioeconomic, political and cultural measures that can promote economic development and build institutional and administrative capacity.
in writing. russia is a member of the council of europe and the osce and is, or at least should be, fully committed to respecting human rights. however, the actual human rights situation in the country is weak. according to the moscow human rights office, xenophobia and homophobia have increased, leading to the killing of more than 100 people in 2008 because of their race, nationality, religion and sexual orientation. in october, messmer, the leader of the russian jesuit brotherhood, and betancourt, an ecuadorian priest, were brutally murdered in their moscow apartment. the problem is that the russian authorities do not prosecute such crimes in practice. the european union is also a party to the convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the situation of human rights activists is a serious concern, as are the difficulties faced by ngos promoting human rights. the european court of human rights in strasbourg has dealt with numerous cases brought by russian citizens. according to the judgments, serious violations of human rights and arbitrariness of the russian state authorities have been observed in many cases. these issues must now be taken seriously in the negotiation of a new framework agreement which provides a comprehensive framework for eu-russia relations. the negotiations launched in the context of the eu-russia summit in november should take account of the centrality of human rights, the rule of law and democracy. the russian authorities should also be required to comply with all decisions of the european court of human rights without delay. human rights lawyers who deal with alleged violations while taking enormous personal risks in investigating cases deserve the utmost respect for their valuable work. they should be guaranteed state protection and adequate support from the international community.
